                                  Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                       Report No:ICR0000185




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (LOAN 4456-IND; CREDIT 3189-IND)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$54.5 MILLION

                                    AND

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION
                       (EQUIVALENT TO US$20.1MILLION)


                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    FOR A

                     SUMATRA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




                                January 4, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 2006)
                             Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
                               RP 1 million = US$ 109.53
                                  US$ 1.00 = RP 9,130


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APBD      Local (district) budget             Dinas II      District level offices of local
APBN      National budget                                   government
Bappeda   Bappeda Regional                    Dinas P&K     Local government office for
          development planning board                        MONE
Bappenas  National development                ICR           Implementation Completion
          planning agency                                   Report
CPCU      Central Project Coordinating        KPI           Key project indicators
          Unit                                Keppres 80    Presidential decree number
DBL       School block grants for quality                   80/2003
          enhancement                         MONE          Ministry of National Education
DBO       Block grants to schools issued      MORA          Ministry of Religious Affairs
          under the crisis                                   Provincial Project
DPIU      District Project                    PPCU
                                                             Coordination Unit
          Implementation Unit                 QAG           Quality Assurance Group (The
Dikdas    Directorate for primary                           World Bank)
          education, MONE                     SD            Primary school, grades 1-6
Dikdasmen Directorate-General for             SLTP          Junior secondary school,
          Primary and Secondary                             grades 7-9
          Education, MONE                     USB           Complete new school
Dikmenum  Directorate for Secondary           UU            2004 Indonesian Education
          Education, MONE                     Sisdiknas     Law
Dinas I   Provincial level offices of
          local government



                       Vice President:     James W. Adams
                    Country Director:      Andrew D. Steer
                     Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas
               Project Team Leader:        Rosfita Roesli

                                                    INDONESIA
                        SUMATRA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS




1. Basic Information............................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ 1
3. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 9
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 13
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 13
11. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 18
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis............................................................................. 19
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ....................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing............................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)...... 30
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process................... 31
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................... 34
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................. 35
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................... 36
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR....................... 37
Annex 11. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................ 40
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 41
MAP IBRD 29789R.......................................................................................................... 42

1. Basic Information
                                                                      SUMATRA BASIC
Country:                Indonesia             Project Name:           EDUCATION
                                                                      PROJECT

Project ID:             P040196               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-44560,IDA-
                                                                      31890
ICR Date:               01/04/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      INDONESIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 74.6M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 73.6M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of National Education
Co financiers and Other External Partners



2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:         03/13/1998   Effectiveness:        05/26/1999        05/26/1999
Appraisal:              09/19/1998   Restructuring(s):     05/03/2002        05/03/2002
Approval:               04/08/1999   Mid-term Review:      11/01/2001        04/21/2003
                                     Closing:              04/30/2006        04/30/2006



3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory



3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                        Yes     Quality at Entry (QEA):             None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                             Yes     Quality of Supervision (QSA):    Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:          Satisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              9                 9
Sub-national government administration                        12                12
Primary education                                             26                26
Secondary education                                           27                27
Tertiary education                                            26                26
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                    Secondary        Secondary
Decentralization                                           Secondary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                         Secondary          Primary
Education for all                                           Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                           Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                Positions                        At ICR                  At Approval
Vice President:                         James W. Adams            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                       Andrew D. Steer           Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:                         Christopher J. Thomas     Alan Ruby
Project Team Leader:                    Rosfita Roesli            Brigitte Duces
ICR Team Leader:                        Rosfita Roesli
ICR Primary Author:                     Robert L. McGough




                                            2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

In early 1999, the GOI determined that the economic crisis would have a significant negative
impact on education participation by the poor, as well as the ability of schools in those areas to
operate effectively. Higher food and transportation costs coupled with increasing unemployment
and under-employment were likely to threaten the living standards of many. The poor families
were increasingly unable to afford the costs of education for their children. Based on lessons
learned during previous economic downfalls, the GOI decided that immediate action must be
taken if access to, and quality of, basic education were to be maintained.

The GOI established a goal to have a system where: (a) all children successfully complete at least
9 years of education; (b) management and delivery of basic education will be the responsibility of
the local government (Bupati) but with strong monitoring and oversight by the Ministry of
National Education (formerly Ministry of Education and Culture); (c) schools will have more
autonomy over their budgets and staff; (d) teacher allocation and distribution will be more
equitable and will be supported by incentives for good teaching; (e) an ongoing in-service teacher
training program will be established; (f) a planning approach will be strongly associated with
school mapping; and (g) parents and communities will become active in school participation
where they will be given responsibility and resources for school maintenance and rehabilitation.

Working with the Bank (Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998), the GOI
determined that the current ineffective institutional arrangements were major constraints to
achieving these goals. More specifically, it was determined that:
    · Implementation of primary education was the legal responsibility of several government
        agencies. This resulted in a lack of accountability;
    · Management of junior secondary education was overly centralized. This resulted in
        inappropriate allocation of resources, and a lack of effective M&E and intervention
        where problems existed;
    · Principals and lower level managers had little autonomy. This resulted in ineffective
        school management;
    · The schools were operated through a fragmented and rigid budgetary process;
    · The civil service incentive system did not adequately reward good teaching practices. It
        also led to an uneven allocation of teachers in schools; and
    · There was little community involvement in primary and junior secondary education.

In addition, it was found that many graduates were leaving basic education with low quality skills
in numeracy, reading and problem-solving. A number of reasons were identified as follows:
    · The current teacher corps contained large numbers of poorly trained teachers;
    · The school provided inadequate time-on-task in all grades, but especially in grades 1 and
        2;
    · There was insufficient resources, particularly for schools in poor communities and in
        many private junior secondary schools;
    · There were low levels of access to, and quality of, textbooks and other instructional
        materials;
    · The current curriculum was ineffective;
    · At all levels of basic education, the student learning assessment approaches and
        instruments were inadequate; and



                                                  3

    · There was insufficient M&E of quality in basic education.

The poor also had low primary school completion rates and it was noted that there was a low
demand by the poor for enrollment in junior secondary education. The identified factors for this
finding were:
    · Late entry of students in the early grades and high repetition rates;
    · Bottom income families could not afford the relative high direct and indirect costs for
        primary and junior secondary schools;
    · Poor families had uncertainty about the benefits of junior secondary education in the
        labor market. This reduced participation;
    · GOI found that it was unable to finance the costs for expanding access to junior
        secondary schools without the inclusion of the less efficient private schools; and
    · There were inefficiencies related to teacher allocation and incentives that made the
        delivery of basic education more costly than it need be.

All of these factors and constraints were, in one way or another, exacerbated by the economic
crisis. The GOI realized, at the onset, that the costs of intervention and development would be
high. For this reason, the GOI decided to turn to donors and multi-lateral lenders for short-turn
assistance during the time of the crisis. The Bank has a long history of experience in the
Education Sector of Indonesia. It also has a long-term commitment to the provision of support
for development of basic education. With its extensive, in-country presence, the Bank was well
positioned to respond quickly with assistance to the GOI to address the above mentioned needs.
This project is one of three (the other two being the West Java Basic Education Project and the
Sulawesi and Eastern Island Basic Education Project) that were financed by the Bank to
specifically address the above problems.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

A. To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and operation of
    primary and junior secondary schools by:
    1. Maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from
        primary to junior secondary for the poor;
    2. Preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
        operational maintenance costs; and
    3. Realizing efficiency gains where possible.

B. To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of:

    1. Improving quality of basic education (grades 1 ­ 9); and
    2. Decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation effectively to
        districts and below.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

PDOs were not revised. KPIs were revised a part of the 2002 amendment of the DCA and Loan
Agreement. The KPIs were expanded to provide a more accurate estimate of PDO achievement.
See Section 6.6 for a more detailed discussion of the reasons/justification for the revisions.




                                                  4

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The major beneficiaries include: (a) school age children, especially poor children who are enabled
by the project to remain in school during the worst crisis periods. These children also benefit
from quality improvements in basic education service delivery; (b) teachers, principals,
supervisors, tutors, and other education personnel at the district level and below. These educators
would be expected to benefit from gained skills, knowledge and resources provided by the
project; and (c) communities and parents who would become more closely involved with the
schools in their areas.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

A. Crisis Relief, included: 1. Scholarships; 2. School Grant; and 3. Training for School
Committees.

B. Institutional Development, included: 1. Strengthening Education Management through: (a)
school mapping; (b) five year integrated plan at all levels covering: (i) school location, (ii) teacher
training/support, (iii) provision of books/teaching aids, (iv) promotion of community
participation; (c) organization and staffing assessment of all levels; (d) capacity enhancement
through (i) staff training (ii) carrying out student assessment and project impact evaluation and
(iii) office equipment; 2. Strengthening project management capacity, through: (a) regular
reporting/monitoring; (b) technical audit; (c) project management training; and (d) office
equipment; and 3. Preparation activities for teacher policy reforms.

C. Quality Enhancement, included: 1. School consolidation; 2. School rehabilitation and
maintenance; 3. Provision of books for supplementary reading etc.; 4. Training for (i) trainers, (ii)
teachers and library managers, (iii) school principals and supervisors, (iv)community leaders; 5.
Employment of 800 contract teachers; and 6. Grants for Private Schools.

6.6 Revised Components

As with the KPIs mentioned in Section 6.3, there were significant revisions made in the project
components through the provisions of the 2002 Amendment to the Loan Agreement and the
DCA. The project was designed at a time when the GOI decentralization efforts/outcomes were
unpredictable. The Decentralization Law (UU No. 22) was passed in 1999, the same year as
project effectiveness and during the early period of project implementation, the Dinas Pendidikan
(District Education Offices) were themselves just learning about their new roles in the
decentralization process. As a result, there was considerable confusion at the district and province
levels, making it difficult to know what activity belongs to what component and how that activity
contributed to a specific PDO.

The revised design maintained most of the activities and re-grouped those activities to show the
GOI focus at the district level with support provided by province and national center. Original
activities that were not continued after restructuring were: (a) training for teachers/supervisors
etc; (b) grants for private schools; and (c) provision of books for supplementary reading etc.
These projects adjustments should not be attributed to the quality of the initial project design, but
instead should be seen as the result of the changing political economic environment and the
significant adjustments that the GOI was implementing during this period of time.




                                                   5

The revised components are as follows:

A. District Education Program - 1. School Improvement Program, through (a) rehabilitation
and construction grants, and (b) grant for quality improvement (learning materials, teacher
training etc.); 2. Contract Teachers; 3. Updating of School Maps; 4. Private School Grants; and 5.
Support services, including (a) district three-year plans; (b) training for school committees; and
(c) monitoring and evaluation by districts.

B. Provincial Support For District Education Program - 1. Upgrading for Education
Professionals; and 2. Support for District Programs, including (a) training for district managers on
project activities, (b) technical assistance for project implementers, and (c) in-country study tour.

C. Central Support For District Education Program - 1. Support to District Education
Program Activities through training and in-country study tours; and 2. District-level Teacher
Management and Teacher Support Services.

D. Crisis Relief - 1. Scholarships; 2. School Block Grants; and 3. Training.

6.7 Other significant changes

At the time of restructuring (2002), the project no longer had ongoing activities that were directly
associated with teacher training. The cascade teacher training activities were dropped, following
the findings during a mission in 2000 which showed their ineffectiveness. Proposals for pilot
district-level teacher management and teacher support services were also eventually dropped due
to failure between the Bank and MONE to reach agreement on an acceptable model for
implementa-tion. There was also a shift from a supply-driven development approach in favor of a
more demand driven approach that featured school block grants given directly to schools
(including private schools) which they can then use to obtain required development inputs (books,
training etc).

The Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were amended a second time
on July 23, 2004 to support changes in budget allocation and refinement of key performance
indicators; however the focus of the project and the PDOs were not changed. The project's
closing date was not extended. The scope and scale of the project was not changed in any
significant way.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Design and Quality at Entry. Initial project identification and design were generally well
conceived and implemented. Early project documentation was satisfactory. The design was
comprehensive and was based on a number of specific lessons learned from past and ongoing
projects (for a full list of lessons learned and associated projects see page 11 of PAD). In
particular, the project sought to decentralize the decision-making processes to the lowest effective
level and supported school construction and improvements through block grants, a proven
approach to decentralized financing in Indonesia. For this reason, the project design featured
significant community participation.




                                                    6

Although restructured in 2002 (section 6.6), it was found that that the original design was
satisfactory. It was clearly based on the needs identified at the time of preparation. Simply stated,
these needs changed as a result of the GOI focus on decentralization and the project design was
modified to meet those needs. The project team's early response to changing needs and flexibility
in project design/implementation should be positively noted. Following the restructuring of the
project, the design was considered more adequate by both the GOI and the Bank.

Risks and Mitigation. A substantial effort was made to identify risks to effective project
implementation and then to prescribe measures that would be taken to minimize those risks (for a
full list of these risks and the prescribed measures, see page 15 of the PAD). These risks were
generally looked after during M&E and are often discussed in the ISRs and other documentation
associated with project implementation. It should be noted that virtually all of the
implementation problems were adequately identified as potential risks in the PAD.

The project was plagued by management and procurement problems, and in this regard, it must
be said that the project's risk mitigation strategies were not as effective as they might have been.
There were some mitigating factors that should be noted. The economic crisis certainly brought
forth implementation problems that were not predictable and they were hard to address. This was
due, in part to shortages of labor and shortages of counterpart funds at appropriate project levels.
Another was the unpredictable levels of project management competence and staff turnover at the
district and lower levels.

Project Preparation. Project preparation was also well planned and implemented. Strong
emphasis was placed on M&E. The task team sought and was able to obtain strong participation
from the Borrower during project preparation. This enabled the project to prepare a project with
substantial commitment from all levels of the Government (national, provincial, and district and
community levels). Since the project was designed to decentralize much of the decision-making
authority to the lowest effective level, this effort was particularly important to the success of the
project. For these reasons, the ICR rates the quality at entry to be satisfactory.

7.2 Implementation

This project is arguably the best of the three similar projects in basic education (West Java,
Sulawesi & Eastern Islands and Sulawesi) that was implemented during the same time period.
Although generally successful, the implementation of this project was not straight forward or
easy. As in the other projects, there were recurring concerns, mainly at the province and district
levels, about: (a) ineffective project management; (b) weak project procurement; (c) lack of
adequate GOI staffing; and (d) delayed counterpart funding allocations as required by the project.
Although these concerns were identified when they came up and were addressed by the task team,
they continued to reappear at various times during project implementation. As the project
progressed it became increasingly evident that there was a lack of clarity and understanding of the
changing roles of government under decentralization.

After project restructuring in 2002, the project effectively introduced the use of block grant to
schools for the rehabilitation and quality to support School Based Management. This simpler,
more targeted approach clearly improved project implementation. It also provided better linkage
between the various component activities and the performance indicators. It also allowed the
Bank and GOI to have better focus during supervision and to place more emphasis on the
effective achievement of the PDOs.




                                                    7

In early 2002, the responsibility for task management/supervision was moved from Washington
to the Jakarta Field Office. The Jakarta task team was able to develop a unique formal and
informal relationship with the Borrower's counterpart implementation teams. This allowed the
implementation of the project to be discussed formally as required by Bank procedures, and also
informally between respected colleagues representing both the Bank and the Borrower. The
result was that problems were, for the most part, quickly discovered and dealt with in a
collaborative environment that resulted in quality improvements in project implementation. This
opportunity for close oversight added significantly to the M&E required to effectively implement
this project.

The mid-term review was conducted on 5/23/2003, during which several implementations,
procurement, staffing, and local counterpart funding problems were identified and effectively
addressed. Although project management and procurement problems again surfaced in 2004 and
2005, there is strong evidence in the project files that the task team effectively monitored project
implementation, and provided substantial inputs to maintain the quality of the project.

This project is a good example of a difficult project, implemented at a difficult time, with good
task team management, and strong M&E and senior management oversight which led to a
satisfactory completion.

The ICR rates project implementation was rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Performance Indicators mentioned in the original Credit Agreement (April 99), were not easy
to measure and were designed with an assumption that a more specific measurement system
would be established later. Due to lack of socialization and low capacity at the sub-national level,
this did not take place. For example, one of the indicators of the Institutional Development
component was: Improvement of assessment score on each annual plan submitted (assessment
criteria to be determined), and the source of data was to be the assessment made by PCC. Until
the second year of the project, no assessment criteria were discussed and the PCC was not aware
of their role in conducting the assessment of the district plan. Up to that point, the M&E process
must be judged unsatisfactory and, for that reason, the need to improve M&E became one of the
primary reasons that the task team chose to restructure the project. The restructuring resulted in
more measurable indicators.

As the project progressed, the M&E system became more refined and it did begin to meet the
needs of the project. During project preparation, M&E specialists were specifically assigned to
the Banks project task team for that purpose. The M&E design provided for a full range of
monitoring activities, strong documentation, and formative evaluations of the project. For the
sake of efficiency, the task team typically fielded supervision missions to review both this project
and the Sulawesi Basic Education Project, which is similar in scope and design. This approach
had many advantages. It was less costly and more time efficient to use one team to look at both
projects. Due to the cost savings incurred, it provided more opportunity for field visits and in-
depth supervision activities to support both projects. It also provided opportunities for the project
to see and work with two comparable projects during implementation, thus learning from the
successes and failures of one project to the benefit of the other.

The project had well defined objectives and a strong implementation plan. The Key Project
Indicators (KPI) were comprehensive, related specifically to the PDOs and had strong



                                                  8

quantitative requirements. In the PAD, each of these KPIs was associated with a specific,
documented strategy for M&E. In some, critical assumptions were also noted. Where
appropriate, baseline measurement criteria were also established.

During project implementation, the M&E of project performance was central to each supervision
mission and subsequent discussion with the Borrower. The KPIs were updated as per Bank
procedures, and there is ample evidence in the ISRs and the project files that they played an
important role in the quality of project implementation. For these reasons, the ICR rates the M&E
design, implementation, and utilization as satisfactory.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

In general, the project complied with the fiduciary requirements of the loan and credit
agreements. There were a few cases where Bank and Government auditors reported a lack of
compliance in the areas of financial management and procurement, especially at the district and
school levels. It was later found that most of these concerns resulted from poor record keeping of
expenditures financed by the Bank.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

MONE uses a semi-formal process to manage the transition of project activities into regular
operations. Each project activity must first be fully completed under the project's budget. After
completion, each project activity must be reviewed and inspected by the Ministry, or its
designated agency to ensure that all project objectives have been met for that activity, including
required civil works and the procurement of goods and services. Unfinished work and quality
concerns noted during this process must be corrected with the oversight of the Ministry, before
final acceptance and transition to regular operations is allowed. Once the acceptance agreement
is reached between all parties, the new institutions, upgraded institutions, new staff, etc. will be
shifted to appropriate regular budgets as required by MONE/province/district operational
policies. This transition arrangement is well facilitated because individuals, responsible for
regular operations, have been selected as implementation managers within the project. As these
activities become fully implemented within the project, the individual managers take over more
and more responsibility for their transition into regular operations. This approach has proven to
be effective and without issue. All project activities, suitable for transitioning, are now fully
transitioned into regular operations.

There are reasons to be optimistic about the potential for sustainability at the central level. Many
project models are now adopted as national policy for central funded activities. However, at the
district level the potential for sustainability remains mixed. The project anticipated this,
recognizing that the situation at the district level is changing rapidly (Section 6.6). As a result,
KPI targets were realistically adjusted as needs changed. These targets were all met by the end of
the project.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This project supported specific sector-related goals of GOI (Indonesia, Short Renstra Education
Finance Note) and the Country Assistance Strategy (No. 18963 IND, paras. 36 and 49). These
included short term goals to reinforce social safety nets through the delivery of improved basic



                                                    9

education services to the poor, and in the medium term, the strengthening of human resource
development in rural areas by decentralizing key decision making to the lowest efficient level
(district and community). Also associated with this goal, the project sought to improve
institutional development in basic education, and the internal and external efficiency of basic
education through wide scale quality improvements in those areas.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO1: To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and operation
of primary and junior secondary schools by: (a) maintaining primary and junior secondary
enrollment rates and transition rates from primary to junior secondary for the poor; (b)
preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
operational maintenance costs; and (c) realizing efficiency gains where possible.

This specific PDO was addressed mainly through the Scholarships and Grant program (SGP
1998-2003). Data from the Ministry of National Education (MONE) illustrates that, to a large
degree, the project was able to meet or exceed all of the performance indicators associated with
this objective, namely: (i) the net enrollment rate in each project's districts was maintained
throughout SGP; (ii) the transition rates from primary to junior secondary in each project's
districts did not decline over the life of SGP; and (iii) for each year of the program, all of schools
that received an SGP grant remained open.

PDO2: To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of: (a) improving
quality of basic education (grades 1 ­ 9); and (b) decentralizing educational planning,
management and implementation effectively to districts and below.

To implement improvements in quality (PDO2(a)), six related activities were implemented:
1. Mapping of Schools has provided an accurate blueprint of schools and their needs. The
    results of this activity were used in selecting schools to participate in the other five activities;
2. School Rehabilitation for Primary Schools (including classroom furniture) has provided a
    better learning environment to students who had previously conducted their learning in very
    poor and unsafe facilities;
3. New School Construction for Junior Secondary Schools, comprising two new junior
    secondary schools in Nias has provided access to school for students in remote areas;
4. School Quality Block grants have enabled schools to obtain long-needed learning materials,
    especially books and teaching aids and allow for more active learning to increasingly replace
    passive learning as more students have access to books and teachers use the available
    teaching and exhibition aids;
5. The Employment of Contract Teachers have allowed districts to deploy teachers to fill gaps in
    the staffing of more remote schools; and
6. Teacher Certification for Madrasah Teachers has enabled them to improve their
    qualifications.

To implement decentralized planning, management and implementation effectively to districts
and below (PDO2(b), the project supported decentralized planning, management and
implementation especially at the district and school level. Each district is now required to prepare
a three-year plan reflecting their priorities in budget allocations. Use of school mapping, another
planning tool implemented under this project, is required by the districts to allocate resources
available through this project, as well as from other sources, in rehabilitating dilapidated schools
in their respective areas. The three-year plan was also a requirement for school receiving quality
block grants under the project.


                                                   10

Evidence from project monitoring increasingly indicates that project districts and school
communities are becoming much more active in their roles as stakeholders in education planning
and management. While this is to be expected at the district level as districts are now required by
law to take responsibility for all levels of education below tertiary (with the exception of those
delivered under the auspices of the Ministry of Religious Affairs), there is substantial evidence of
enthusiastic participation in the management of school affairs, particularly those associated with
rehabilitation. Based on the grant models first piloted in the three Basic Education Projects as
well as in the Bank's three Junior Secondary Education Projects, community managed grants to
schools have been introduced across many centrally financed education programs at both basic
and secondary levels. When the MONE disbursed School Operational Fund (BOS) from the oil
subsidy compensation (PKPS BBM) to all schools in the country, project schools found that
administrative skills they learned from managing the quality block grant to be very useful in
carrying out the new task.

Under each project, each school that receives funding for rehabilitation forms a team that includes
community members and this team then manages the planning, execution and monitoring of the
rehabilitation activity. This mechanism has resulted, in the majority of cases, in construction of
superior quality, and much lower price, than would have been the case had contractors been used.

Furthermore, as school committees have become more established across the country (replacing
the previous Parent/Teacher bodies, BP3) growing evidence from both government and donor
financed projects suggests that community involvement in education is shifting from
'contribution' to 'participation'. Although progress in this area is being made under each project, it
is widely understood that efforts to improve district and school-based governance and
management must continue and be strengthened if they are to have a lasting impact on the quality
of planning, management and content of education programs.

8.3 Efficiency

Efficiency estimates and comparisons were not calculated for this project.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was judged to have met all of its development objectives. This assessment was
based on: (a) satisfactory project outcomes and outputs as measured by the KPIs, including a
finding that, even during stressful periods caused by the economic crisis, net enrollment rates
(NER) for the target provinces have been maintained or have gone up in basic education during
the implementation of the project (Annex 1); (b) strong Government commitment and
participation was experienced throughout the implementation of the project; (c) strong public and
private school participation; (d) effective interagency coordination by provincial and district
agencies; (e) indications of local community satisfaction with the overall implementation of the
project and its outcomes; and (f) indications of continued sustainability for long term project
activities.

It was also judged that the PDOs were fully consistent with the Bank's current country and sector
assistance strategies. The GOI also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms (Section
8.5) and continues to place strong priority for continued improvements in access and quality




                                                  11

throughout the education sector, and plans to systematically increase budgets to support those
improvements.

Based on the above findings, the overall outcomes of the project are rated as satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The institutional changes noted below (Section 8.5(b)) resulted in an equal access to enrollment
for boys and girls in the target schools. As the project's scholarships programs were targeted on
the poor students in the target schools and there is anecdotal evidence to suggest that there was a
modest impact on poverty in the families receiving scholarships for their children.

The two new Junior Secondary Schools constructed by the project in Nias island provided access
to poor students who otherwise will face the risk of discontinuing their schooling due to excessive
transport cost required to reach the nearest available school. The projects poverty focus was
strictly exercised in the selection of schools receiving project intervention, especially school
rehabilitation. Using the school mapping, only under-resourced schools serving poor communities
were selected to receive the rehabilitation.

The policy reforms also supported significant decentralization of decision-making down to the
community level. This effort introduced improved efficiency to many school projects, but it also
empowered communities to make advances in their own social development. As a result, the
project saw communities decide to: (a) keep schools open longer to serve both children and
adults; (b) expand the services to include school libraries; (c) establish school beautification and
landscaping programs for their schools; (e) establish volunteer programs to support schools and
community development; and (f) accept contractual responsibility for school upgrading and
establishment using local workers which in turn, provided significant employment and available
income within the community. This income contributed to the alleviation of poverty in those
communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project supported substantial sector-wide policy development and reform, including: (a) the
decentralization of school management; (b) the introduction school block funding schemes; (c)
schemes for increased community participation in school establishment, upgrading and operation;
(d) the use of student scholarships to support students from poor families; (e) the use of school
mapping to support education management; (f) the use of contract teachers to support rural
schools where there were teacher shortages; and (g) the introduction of community participation
models for school rehabilitation. These policy reforms, and the activities noted above (Section
8.5(a)), also resulted in increased student access and improvements in instructional quality.
Macro-economic policies were not specifically addressed in the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

At the beginning, the project met some opposition from local contractors who felt that their
business opportunities were constrained by the introduction of community participation method.
For the most part, local project teams were able to effectively address these concerns during the
project. This issue should probably be seen as a lesson learned regarding the use of community



                                                  12

participation method. When the community becomes empowered, some businesses and
industries may feel threatened. That concern should be addressed in design of future projects.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops were not held for the project.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible.

An accurate assessment of risk during the earlier years of the project would probably have
resulted in a much higher rating than it would now. The economy has improved. As a
consequence, there has been a significant increase of funding made available to MONE. There
has also been a plethora of significant policy reforms that came about as a result of lessons
learned from the implementation of a series of basic education and other projects financed by the
Bank, ADB, and other bi- and multi-lateral organizations.

At the policy level, the Government remains strongly committed to the education sector. In
particular, it places a national priority on primary and junior secondary education, and sees those
sub sectors as important intellectual and social development assets. At the ministry level, there is
a strong commitment to the systematic, long-term development of basic education. The project's
outcomes are strongly linked to the Government's long-term development goals, and the project-
supported policy reforms have all been adopted by MONE.

There has also been significant legal reform in the education sector since the beginning of the
project. An example may be seen in UU Sisdiknas 2004 and Keppres 80/2003 which provide the
legal basis for continuing block grant as a mechanism to channel funds to schools, allowing
project-introduced activities such as school rehabilitation, USB and quality block grants to be
continued under APBN and ABPD funding. Although some districts have yet to adopt the block
grant mechanism, especially for school rehabilitation, MONE has already adopted block grants as
one of its preferred means of channeling funds to schools and districts. For this reason, it appears
that this project mechanism will be encouraged and may be eventually institutionalized and
sustained.

The Bank also has a substantial history of project financing in the education sector in Indonesia.
In virtually all Bank-financed projects in the sector, the Government has consistently
demonstrated a strong commitment to sustainability in education. Currently, all project
institutions and remaining project activities are fully funded from local or national budgets.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was not assessed at entry by QAG.




                                                  13

The ICR found that the identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions were
appropriately staffed, well managed and generally effective. Project negotiations were also well
planned, managed and implemented. Evidence of this effectiveness may be seen in the Bank
teams' ability to adhere to a rapid processing schedule that was necessary to support the Borrower
during the financial crisis.

The identification and preparations missions were able to assist the Borrower to produce a
thorough and comprehensive project design that did not change much during the subsequent
stages of project preparation and implementation. A number of working papers were produced
and provided significant input to the preparation of the project. To support quality improvement
of basic education, the preparation missions paid special attention to the holistic integration of
equipment, facilities, pedagogy, curricula and staff development into the project design, and the
need for the project to be flexible in a time of economic crisis.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The supervision teams were well staffed and their aide memoirs (prepared in collaboration with
the Government team) were well prepared. It was also found that the supervision teams
consistently monitored the fiduciary aspects of the project. The KPIs were reviewed and updated
during each supervision mission. The project was linked with other similar, on-going basic
education projects with commonly defined objectives. Joint project supervision missions were
fielded to maximize available mission expertise, and to provide opportunities for better
articulation in the Banks dialogue with, and recommendations to, the Borrower. Since that time,
the supervision of the project has steadily improved and has become more efficient and effective.

The Jakarta based supervision team also conducted additional missions throughout the year
(jointly with the government teams) involving in-depth discussions with project managers at all
levels, and government follow up to the problems found during the field visits.

Procurement has been a problem throughout the implementation of the project (although not as
serious as Sulawesi due to better support from CPMU). The supervision team has carefully
monitored the implementation of this activity and when necessary, acted quickly to protect the
Government and the Bank's interests.

A review of the PSRs/ISRs and their associated aide memoirs will reveal that there have been
many other problems that were effectively addressed by the supervision teams through close
collaboration with the Borrower. In all cases, specific actions were agreed upon, with the
Government, to bring the project back inline with the implementation plan. Relations with the
Borrower have been strongly collaborative and productive. Supervision missions, in approximate
six month intervals, were most often timely and adequately staffed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

As mentioned above, this project has been challenging for the Bank to support. Although well
designed and organized initially, there have been many project management and other
implementation issues which were, in part, brought about by the effects of decentralization and
the financial crisis. There is evidence that Bank management and project teams made substantial


                                                  14

efforts to address the changing needs that were brought on by this situation. Project
documentation clearly reveals that the project team stayed focused on the PDOs and effectively
used M&E and the KPIs to measure project success as required by Bank guidelines. This was
particularly true after the restructuring of the KPIs (2002). They also exhibited a willingness to be
flexible, while at the same time maintaining the required rigor of project implementation. The end
result was that most of the project issues were addressed in ways that allowed for the successful
completion of the PDOs as measured by the KPIs. There is also significant evidence that the
policy reforms recommended in the project were accepted by the GOI and there is reason to
assume that they will be sustained in the future.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

Note: as required by guidelines, inputs for this section (a) and the following (b) are combined in
Section 10.2 (c).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

Implementing Agency                                Performance
Ministry of National Education                     See part (c) below.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Project Identification and Preparation. As a response to the economic crisis, the Bank and the
Borrower agreed to quickly prepare and process this project. This required quick action on the
part of both the Borrower and the Bank to mobilize resources, and to select and field strong teams
to identify and prepare the project. Both the Bank and the Borrower were successful in meeting
this requirement. The Borrower's counterpart team participated actively in the preparation of the
project and was particularly effective in the Bank/Borrower's consideration of options and the
collection, organization and analysis of the data required developing the project design. As
preparation activities were initiated, the counterpart team made many significant contributions to
the quality and scope of the project design. It has been judged that the project was adequately
designed and prepared by this combined team.

Project Implementation. Initially the CPCU, PPIUs and DPIUs experienced some disruption
when there was inadequate staffing available to effectively implement the project. The MONE
and its provincial and district agencies were slow to approve and coordinate the adequate
provision of counterpart funding and needed staff at the district level. Once this move took place,
the local DPIUs were strengthened and provided a more effective implementation of the project.
The CPCU worked closely with the Bank's task team. As the project experienced problems with
procurement, disbursement, etc., the CPCU, representing the MONE, worked in close
collaboration with the Bank to make necessary changes in the project to bring the project back on
schedule.



                                                  15

Procurement was a major issue, especially related to the selection of TA for school rehabilitation.
These consultancies packages were to be procured by the PPIU with the support from The CPCU.
A limited understanding of Bank procurement guidelines resulted in a major delay in the selection
of the consultant to provide TA. In 2003, the school rehabilitation program (one of key project
activities) was put on hold because of the delay in mobilizing consultants who were tasked with
providing technical and administrative assistance to the school committees. As a result, the
mobilization of consultants became a top priority of both the GOI and the Bank team, and both
parties sought to address the problem. Once the consultants were in place, the implementation of
the school rehabilitation program was accelerated and the project was back on track.

Where there was a need to adjust the implementation plan to better reflect reality, the changes
were adequately managed by the CPCU, and agreed to by the Bank. As a result, the project was
able to meet all of its development objectives while staying within budget. CPCU also
established computerized project scheduling and indicator tracking systems, M&E systems, and
other management procedures that served to enhance effectiveness of project implementation. In
its support of Bank supervision missions, the CPCU often prepared operational studies, project
performance audits, financial analyses, and architectural plans necessary to support the
supervision process. The CPCU also consistently provided advanced planning to improve Bank
efficiency during its visits to remote project sites.

11. Lessons Learned

Protecting Education during a Financial Crisis
1. During the financial crisis, dropout rates are often low in primary school and transition to
junior secondary school is the most important attrition point in the system, particularly for the
poor. This finding suggests that during a crisis, GOI interventions may be most effective if they
target the critical transition from primary to junior secondary education. Project experience
suggests that: (a) some narrowly targeted scholarships can be given to the poorest children at the
primary level, but the bulk of the scholarships should be broadly focused on children who are
enrolling in junior secondary school; (b) if scholarships are given to students starting in primary
school then some continuity across school levels must be assured. For this reason, it is
recommended that SGP school-level "entitlements" to changed to an individual-level
entitlement); (c) the pool of candidates for grade 7 scholarships should be taken from children
who complete primary school not from those who are already enrolled in grade 7; and (d) as a
result of the latter, selection of candidates should be done on the basis of an monitored
application process;

2. During times of financial crisis, or political change, projects should be designed with a view
toward maximum flexibility, and the potential for rapid restructuring as the need arises;

Government Decentralization in Basic Education
3. Within the framework of decentralization, the central government (MONE) has a role in
targeting strategies to address the education needs of the poorest communities if national goals for
basic education are to be achieved. There are more than 400 autonomous district governments in
Indonesia with widely different capacities and education indicators. The central government has
an important role in ensuring equity in basic education delivery, especially if the nation is to
achieve its access and quality goals for nine years basic education. MONE will need to continue
to support targeting strategies to underserved rural areas and to districts with low institutional
capacity;



                                                   16

4. Incentives for decentralization should be carefully thought through, decided upon, resourced
and consistently made available, before community participation and the establishment of
decentralized education programs are begun;

Community Participation
5. School rehabilitation using community participation method costs an average of 25% less
than the contractor method, with at least similar quality. In many cases, the rehabilitation is of
higher quality and includes more facilities (toilet, clean water, electricity, classroom furniture).
One advantage is the moral check placed upon the members of the team responsible for
implementation (TPR) as they will all continue to live and/or work in the community after the
works are completed. Should it appear later that funds had not been properly spent; they would be
held accountable by their peers. (Genuine mistakes or lack of technical competence might be
forgiven but not dishonesty);

6. Quality (as reported by those visiting the schools) is at least equal to that expected when a
small local contractor is engaged. In addition, when a lump sum approach is used, surpluses are
not retained by the contractor but instead, can be used by the community to add quality to the
school;

School Quality Block Grant
7. While schools are generally able to manage the block grant to purchase learning input and
materials, more assistance is required to prepare them in organizing training. This includes:
setting training objectives; ability to identify/obtain good training material and trainers; and
developing post-training activities;

Monitoring and Evaluation
8. Monitoring and Evaluation Framework should be agreed during project preparation which
includes establishing the baseline data, capacity building for district and province monitoring
staff and allocating sufficient resources for monitoring visits to project beneficiaries;

9. Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project
with widely dispersed project activities and sites;

Project Design and Preparation
10. School Mapping is an excellent technique to support education planning, but there should be a
pre-commitment to update the "map" each year - thereby overcoming the potential static nature
of the process;

11. School mapping can be useful to education agencies at all levels. For instance, school
mapping may be used to provide a better understanding of: (a) inequities in resource allocations
between geographical areas; (b) physical limitations to school access (i.e. lack of roads,
infrastructure, services); (c) imbalances in district or provincial education officer assignments for
school oversight; (d) preferred locations for new school establishment, based on needs; (e)
preferred locations for school expansion to meet increasing enrollment demand; and (f)
geographic, economic, cultural, and social dimensions required in monitoring and evaluation
schemes, where there is a need to make comparisons between schools, districts and provinces;

12. There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar projects are
funded concurrently, with similar PDOs and KPIs, and managed as a single program rather than
as separate projects;



                                                   17

Project Management
13. The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed central project coordination unit
(CPCU) must be considered a key contributing factor to the successful implementation of any
project with widely disbursed operations;

14. Project personnel from provincial and district agencies should become more familiar with
Bank guidelines and documentation requirements. When such projects are planned, there is a
need for the Bank to provide training and implementation manuals as a part of new project start-
up. This increased understanding should prevent some conflicts between Bank guidelines and
local procurement and disbursement procedures;

15. It there are major procurement packages that might delay project implementation, it is better
to complete the procurement before loan effectiveness (using government own budget) or early
during project effectiveness. This will require as much preparation to be done during project
appraisal (e.g. obtaining clearance for ToR, shortlist etc);

Project Implementation
16. When a project has widely disbursed project sites, local administrators, coordinators and
teachers should be more fully briefed regarding the advantages of participating in the project as
well as their responsibilities;

17. The use of contract teachers has been proven to be a way to ease staffing shortages;

18. Improving learning outcomes is a complex task and it is best planned with the input from
local principals and teachers. The project found small but significant changes in teaching and
learning processes when the whole school was involved in school development planning, teachers
were able to choose books, materials and equipment and teacher training was demand driven; and

19. When technical consultants (i.e., architects, structural engineers, electrical engineers, M&E
specialists, and quantity surveyors) are selected and contracted as individuals, rather than as
teams (organizations), by the Borrower, there is a strong possibility that they may not form a
cohesive working unit so necessary in large projects. This lack of cohesion may cause delays in
construction, lack of architectural control over the project, and a lack of articulation between
various plans and specifications.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



(b) Co financiers
    N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

    N/A.




                                                  18

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

A. To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and operation of
primary and junior secondary schools by:
    1. Maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from
         primary to junior secondary for the poor;
    2. Preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
         operational maintenance costs; and
    3. Realizing efficiency gains where possible.

B. To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of:
    1. Improving quality of basic education (grades 1 thru 9); and
    2. Decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation effectively
         to districts and below.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDOs were not revised. KPIs were revised a part of the 2002 amendment of the DCA and Loan
Agreement. The KPIs were expanded to provide a more accurate estimate of PDO achievement.
See Section 6.6 for a more detailed discussion of the reasons/justification for the revisions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target     Formally

   Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from      Revised        Actual Value Achieved at
                                           approval          Target       Completion or Target Years
                                           documents)        Values
Indicator 1 :    Net Enrollment Rate (NER) in each project district is maintained throughout economic
                 crisis response program (1998-2003)
Value            N. Sumatra: PS NER In N. Sumatra,                     N. Sumatra: PS NER ­ 90%, JSE
(quantitative or ­ 88%, JSE NER ­      Rau, and                        NER ­ 73%; Rau: PS NER ­ 92%,
Qualitative)     74%; Rau: PS NER ­ Bengkulu,                          JSE NER ­ 72%; Bengkulu: PS
                 85%, JSE NER ­        maintain NER at,                NER ­ 92%, JSE NER ­ 69%
                 67%; Bengkulu: PS or above, baseline
                 NER ­ 88%, JSE        values
                 NER ­ 65%
Date achieved    07/01/1998            07/01/2003                      12/01/2005
Comments         Indicator 1 has generally met or exceeded baseline values
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Transition rate from primary to junior secondary in each project does not decline over the
                 life of the program (1998-2003)
Value            0N. Sumatra ­ 32%; In all three                       N. Sumatra ­ 32%, 78%, 77%,
(quantitative or Rau ­ nd; Bengkulu provinces,                         76%, 7%; Riau ­ nd, 64%, 60%,
Qualitative)     ­ nd                  maintain NER at,                61%, 66%; Bengkulu ­ nd, 83%,
                                       or above, baseline              78%, 72%, 71%
                                       values
Date achieved    07/01/1998            07/01/2003                      12/01/2005
Comments (incl. Target met in North Sumatra and Riau



                                                    19

% achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Each year of the crisis relief program, 95% of schools that receive DBO remain open
                (1998-2003)
Value           0                     95%                              100%
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/03/2006                       12/01/2005
Comments (incl. GOI reported that no registered schools closed during the crisis period due to the ability to
% achievement) meet operational costs
Indicator 4 :   By the end of FY2004, 50% of all school mergers, which have been recommended in
                school consolidation plans, will have been carried out.
Value           0                     75%                              Of a total of 656 school mergers
(quantitative or                                                       planned, 56% have been completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/03/2006                       12/01/2005
Comments        Indicator target of 50% was exceeded by 6%
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   90% of USB meet technical specification
Value           0                     90%                              2 USB: Both met 100% of
(quantitative or                                                       technical specifications
Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/03/2006                       12/01/2005
Comments        Indicator exceeded by 10%
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   100% of USB functioning with teachers, books, operation budgets, and students enrolled
                by end of project
Value           0                     100%                             2 USB: Reported as functioning,
(quantitative or                                                       but still having insufficient number
Qualitative)                                                           of teachers, books, budget and
                                                                       students as close of project
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                       12/01/2005
Comments (incl. Although technically meeting the indicator, there is concern that there are insufficient
% achievement) resources and enrollments available at these two schools
Indicator 7 :   Junior Secondary enrollment increased in school districts without decreasing private
                school enrollment in the same district or its neighboring sub-districts
Value           0                     Increase                         236 new places created in Class1.
(quantitative or                      enrollment                       No decrease in neighboring private
Qualitative)                          Without decreasing               school enrollment is reported, due
                                      private school                   to remoteness of school locations
                                      enrollment in same
                                      district
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments (incl.
% achievement)
Indicator 8 :   >90% rehab schools meet technical specifications
Value           0                     >90%                             Exceeded: 893 schools
(quantitative or                                                       rehabilitated. Survey of 464
Qualitative)                                                           schools showed over 96% met
                                                                       technical specifications




                                                     20

Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator was exceeded by about 6%
% achievement)
Indicator 9 :   75% of rehabilitated schools will show an increase of 10% in new student registration
                without decreasing private school enrollment, or at least 10% increase in attendance after
                2 years
Value           0                     75% of                               861 schools were rehabilitated. In a
(quantitative or                      rehabilitated                        survey of 416 schools, 83% of the
Qualitative)                          schools will                         schools met the target of 10% new
                                      increase                             school registration. About 90% met
                                      enrollment by 10%                    target for increase in enrollment
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Only 11% of the rehabilitated schools met the target of 10% enrollment increase as
% achievement) compared to the target of 75%
Indicator 10 : At least 75% of the teachers participating in teacher certification complete their training
                successfully and teach subject(s) in which they have been certified.
Value           0                     75%                                  Exceeded: 136 (Rau only) teachers
(quantitative or                                                           certified. Survey of 37 teachers
Qualitative)                                                               shows 86 % meet this target
Date achieved   07/31/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator was exceeded, on the average, by about 11%
% achievement)
Indicator 11 : 90% of all contract teachers teach subjects that reflect school needs
Value           0                     By the end of year                   From 1450 population contract
(quantitative or                      2003, 90% reflect                    teachers, 484 teachers were
Qualitative)                          school need                          surveyed. Findings: 90% of sample
                                                                           is teaching subjects that reflect
                                                                           school needs.
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator target was 100% achieved
% achievement)
Indicator 12 : > 75% of contract teachers have good performance (as assessed by the head teacher)
Value           0                     >75%                                 Exceeded: 1091 contract teachers.
(quantitative or                                                           Survey of 588 schools show 92%
Qualitative)                                                               of head teachers were satisfied with
                                                                           contract teacher performance
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator was exceeded by about 17%
% achievement)
Indicator 13 : By the end of the project, 90% of all district plans show direct evidence of use of annual
                school mapping data.
Value           All district plans,   90%                                  All district plans, in the 3 project
(quantitative orin the 3 project                                           provinces are using annual school
Qualitative)    provinces are using                                        mapping data in their district plans
                annual school
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                           04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Documented use varies from minimal to extensive. Indicator goal exceeded by about 10%
% achievement)
Indicator 14 : By the end of the project in all districts, district level staff are responsible for selecting
                project recipients and actively monitoring program implementation
Value           0                     Some evidence of                     100% achieved in N. Sumatra and



                                                    21

(quantitative or                       sustained                        Bengkulu districts, district level
Qualitative)                           commitment in all                staff are responsible for selecting
                                       districts                        project recipients and actively
                                                                        monitoring the program. In Rau the
                                                                        figure was 93%
Date achieved   07/01/2002             04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator generally achieved in the provinces, but with varying success within the districts
% achievement)
Indicator 15 : By project end, 60% of districts adopt or sustain at least 3 of 5 models introduced by
                project (rehab by community, block grants, teacher certification, contract teachers,
                mapping/consolidation
Value           0                      60%                              Bengkulu ­ 90% Riau ­ 90% N.
(quantitative or                                                        Sumatra ­ 50% Average ­ 80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/01/2002             04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator was exceeded by about 20% on the average
% achievement)
Indicator 16 : By the end of the project, at least 75% of schools that receive (quality) block grants will
                produce school plans that clear link (learner) needs and inputs.
Value           0                      >75%                             2,327 schools received grants. Of
(quantitative or                                                        1284 schools surveyed, 91%
Qualitative)                                                            showed an increase in the use of
                                                                        school planning, the use of
                                                                        teaching aids, and/or an increase in
                                                                        the use of active learning methods
Date achieved   07/01/2002             04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments (incl. In the sample survey, indicator was exceeded by about 17%
% achievement)
Indicator 17 : By the end of the project, at least 75% of schools that receive (Quality) Block Grant show
                an increase in the use of teaching aids or increase in use of learner active methods
Value           0                      >75%                             Exceeded: 2,327 schools received
(quantitative or                                                        grants. 91% of 1284 schools
Qualitative)                                                            surveyed show an increase in the
                                                                        use of teaching aids or an increase
                                                                        in use of learner active methods
Date achieved   07/01/2002             04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator was exceeded by about 16%
% achievement)
Indicator 18 : Of the schools that receive (Quality) Block Grants, 80% of the School Block Grant team
                participants will participate actively in the management of the block grants
Value           0                      80%                              Exceeded: 2,327 schools received
(quantitative or                                                        grants. 95% of 1,284 schools
Qualitative)                                                            surveyed had their School Block
                                                                        Grant team actively involved in the
                                                                        management of the grants
Date achieved   07/01/2002             04/30/2006                       04/30/2006
Comments        Indicator was exceeded by about 15%
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 19 : Of the schools that receive DBL or rehabilitation grants, by the end of the project, 90% of
                the school committees will be actively monitoring program implementation in their
                respective schools



                                                     22

Value           0                     90%                        Exceeded: 2,327 schools received
(quantitative or                                                 grants. 93% of 1,284 schools
Qualitative)                                                     surveyed had their school
                                                                 committee actively involved in the
                                                                 monitoring and management of the
                                                                 grants
Date achieved   07/01/2002            04/30/2006                 04/30/2006
Comments (incl. Indicator target was exceeded by about 3%
% achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target

   Indicator       Baseline Value        Values (from    Formally Revised  Actual Value Achieved at
                                           approval       Target Values   Completion or Target Years
                                          documents)
Indicator 1 :    The Result Framework did not indicate IO




                                                  23

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring  Board      ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed          Reason for

   Date(s)    Approved     Restructuring at Restructuring in Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change     DO      IP        USD M              Changes Made
                                                            Improvement of M&E

05/03/2002   N               U       U          32.2        and to realign activities
                                                            planned through project
                                                            completion




                                       24

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

              Components                    Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                        Estimate (USD M)    Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal
CRISIS RELIEF                                      27.60                17.06             61.81
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                           9.80                  4.77            48.67
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                                38.00                12.69             33.39
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                  6.40                  3.13            48.90
DISTRICT EDUCATION PROGRAM                          0.00                48.10
PROVINCIAL SUPPORT TO DISTRICT                      0.00                  7.96
CENTRAL SUPPORT TO DISTRICT
EDUCATION PROGRAM                                   0.00                  3.78

                   Total Baseline Cost             81.80                97.49            119.15
Physical Contingencies                              1.95
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
                    Total Project Costs            84.30
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.550                0.545
             Total Financing Required              84.30               98.035            116.29


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal
          Source of Funds            Type of Co                   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                      financing   Estimate (USD
                                                       M)       Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

GOVERNMENT                                                  9.70             24.49       252.47

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                         54.50             54.15        99.36

DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                  20.10             19.40        96.52
ASSOCIATION




                                               25

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            26

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - Crisis Relief
Under the Crisis Relief Component, two major activities/outcomes were planned and
implemented. These are as follows:

Based on poverty criteria and school attendance, a scholarships and grant program was provided
to primary and junior secondary students. These grants provided scholarships to junior secondary
students and the provision, cost and acquisition of instructional, consumable materials, minor
repairs and maintenance, public transportation of teachers attending KKG training, and school
fees. Government data indicate that:
    · Net Enrollment Rates (NER) in each project district were generally maintained or
        increased over the period 1998-2003. In North Sumatra, primary NERs for each of the five
        school years were: 88%; 90%; 94%; 89%; and 90%. Junior secondary NERs were: 74%; 77%;
        74%; 70%; 73%. In Riau, primary NERs for each of the five school years were: 85%; 93%; 95%;
        93% 92%. Junior secondary NERs were: 67%; 76%; 78%; 71%; and 72%. In Bengkulu,
        primary NERs for each of the five school years were: 88.08%; 91.96%; 88.22%; 89.73%;
        and 92.40%. Junior secondary NERs were: 65.62%; 66. 22%; 66.83%; 67.35%; and
        69.03%;
    · Although there were some gaps, available data suggests that transition rates from primary
        to junior secondary were generally maintained or increased over the period 1998-2003. In
        North Sumatra, transition rates were 32%; 78%; 77%; 76%; and 87%. In Riau, transition
        rates were nd; 64%; 60%; 61%; and 66%. In Bengkulu, transition rates were nd; 83%;
        78%; 72%; and 71%;
    · In the period from 1998 to 2003, no registered school receiving DBO closed due to
        inability to meet operating costs; and
    · By the end of FY 2004, GOI data confirms that, of all the school mergers recommended
        in school consolidation plans (656), about 56% have been carried out. This has resulted
        in significant savings to development and operational costs on an annual basis.

A training program on administration procedures and selection criteria for scholarships and grants
was planned and implemented in all of the provincial agencies, district agencies, Kecamatan and
local school committee members supported by the project. Data is not available regarding the
number of participants in this training program, but there is evidence that the training program
was widely offered and well received by the participants.

Component 2 - Institutional Reform
Under the Institutional Reform Component, and in response to ongoing legislative reforms, a
number of activities were planned and implemented. The key activities and outcomes are
described below:

Education management was strengthened at the Kecamatan, district, and provincial levels
through:

a.    Education Mapping. Education mapping of primary and junior secondary schools was
widely institutionalized and used for education planning. The mapping data included staffing of
schools and consolidation plans for public primary schools. This data was used to improve
staffing ratios and the restructuring of pubic primary education through school mergers and
closings where necessary. GOI data indicates that, at project completion, all districts are using
annual school mapping data to support management decision-making.



                                                  27

b.    Five-year Plans and Annual Technical and Budget Plans. At the various GOI levels
(MoNE, MORA, BAPPEDA, and DINAS P and K) prepared five year plans and supporting
technical and budget plans that articulated with the national five year plan. This allowed for
significant integration and coordination of consolidated activities in primary and secondary
education. GOI data reveals that preparation of five-year plans were required from all of the
above organizations. This planning did support significant linkages in basic education
development between these organizations.

c.    Capacity Assessments. In support of their responsibilities within the national five year
plan, relevant ministries and agencies were required to carry out capacity assessments. This
information gave GOI a better understanding of the development need in basic education.

d.    Strengthening of Capacity. The project supported a significant effort to strengthen the
capacity within relevant ministries and agencies that have responsibilities for service delivery in
primary and junior secondary education. This was done through a variety of activities. Much of
the effort focused on moving key decision-making to the lowest effective level (decentralization).
This was done through the implementation of five management models that featured or supported
elements of decentralization (i.e. rehab by school committees, block grant, teacher certification,
contract teachers, and mapping/consolidation of schools) for use by the districts to strengthen
capacity.

By the end of the project, about 80% of the project districts have adopted at least three of the
above mentioned management models for sustained implementation at the local level. This was
done in 100% districts in Bengkulu; 90% of the districts in Riau; and in about 50% of the districts
in North Sumatra.

Likewise, at the national level, MoNE has moved to institutionalize the use of block grants,
teacher certification, contract teachers where needed and the use of school mapping for planning
of education and the consolidation of schools. It is estimated that 93% of the school committees
actively monitored program implementation (estimated from a sample of 1284 out of 2,327
schools that received DBL or Rehabilitation Grants). In that same sample, it was found that 95%
of the School Block Grant teams actively participated in the management of the block grant in
their respective schools. It is evident that the use of community participation in basic education
has significantly increased as a result of this and the other similar basic education projects.

Component 3 - Quality Improvement
Under the Quality Improvement Component, the project implemented six major activities. These
activities and their outcomes are as follows:

a.   Through USB grants, two new junior secondary schools were established in Nias. The
quality of construction and community participation was high, however, enrollment in 2005 was
low and there were not enough teachers at the institutions. In 2006 these issues were effectively
addressed. 236 new places have been created at the junior secondary level with no reported drop
in private school enrollments;

b.   Schools were consolidated in the project provinces, using school mapping (Component 2,
activity 1). This effort included the redeployment of teachers and school principals. GOI data
reveals that out of about 656 recommended and planned school mergers, at least 56% have taken
place in areas supported by this project. This is significant in that such mergers allow for



                                                  28

improved institutional development and management, as well as significant savings in both
human and financial resources;

c.   Schools were encouraged to plan for quality. About 91% of the schools receiving (Quality)
Block Grants now produce school plans that linked needs to inputs;

d.   Primary schools were rehabilitated. This included the strengthening of school maintenance
procedures. Of the 861 schools that were rehabilitated, almost all of the schools were able to
show increases in new student enrollment, without seeing a decrease in private school enrollment
within the same village. Of the schools rehabilitated 93% were able to meet planned
rehabilitation specifications upon completion. GOI data shows that about 83% of these schools
were able to increase their enrollments by as much as 10%. About 90% were able to increase
student attendance by at least 10%;

e.   Schools were provided with block grant for 3 consecutive years which the school used to
purchase educational kits: books for supplementary reading and teacher reference, teacher aids
and kits and demonstration equipment for use in the classrooms;

f.   Contract teachers were employed to fill gaps in school staffing, particularly in remote rural
areas where teachers are hard to recruit, hire and retain. About 1,451 contract teachers were hired
during the project for junior secondary schools. Although the number of teachers fell short of
original estimates, this activity has still been quite successful in that it has demonstrated that a
reasonable, temporary option to maintain student/teacher ratios in more remote communities
where teachers are hard to recruit and maintain. Of contract teachers employed during the
project, 92% of those teachers were evaluated (performance) as satisfactory or higher by their
head teachers. It was also found that about 92% of these contract teachers were teaching subjects
that reflected school needs; and

g.   Madrasah teachers were certified. The project supported training program at local
universities for madrasah teacher (Primary and Jr Secondary Level) to upgrade their subject
knowledge and pedagogy. At least 75% of the teachers participating in teacher certification
completed their training successfully and teach subject(s) in which they have been certified.

Component 4 - Project Management
Under the Project Management Component, project resources were used to support the
implementation, management and M&E of project by the various project implementation units
(CPIU, PPIU and DPIU). During the course of project implementation, these units were
effectively organized, managed and resourced. The project was designed with a pyramid type
management structure wherein the CPIU was responsible for providing monitoring and
evaluation support and overall project management, while the province and district levels were
responsible for the direct implementation of the various elements of the project. The Bank's
supervision teams interacted with all levels on an ongoing basis. Significant training and
development was provided to these units by GOI and Bank monitoring and supervision teams.




                                                   29

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)


No economic and financial analysis was conducted at the completion of this project




                                         30

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process
(a) Task Team members
            Names                  Title             Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
 Lending
 Jacqueline Baptist      Economist                 EASHD   Consultant - Economist
 Basilius Bengoteku      Sr Operations Off.        EASHD   Operation
 Sue Ellen Berryman      Consultant                IEGCM   Peer Reviewer
 Bridie Champion         Consultant                LOAG2   Disbursement
 Brigitte Duces          Operations Adviser        SAROQ   TTL/ Implementation
 Deon P. Filmer          Senior Economist          DECRG   Economist
 Vincent M. Greaney      Consultant                MNSHD   Education Specialist
 Donald B. Hamilton      Consultant                AFTHD   Education Planning
 Dorothy N. Judkins      Program Assistant         EASHD   Administrative Support
 Elizabeth M. King       Research Manager          DECRG   Peer Reviewer
 Samuel S. Lieberman     Lead Economist            EASHD   Educational Planning
 Mieko Masuda            Consultant                EASHD   Consultant Costab
 Nancy Mattson           Consultant                OPCIL   Consultant - Costab
 Karin I. Nordlander     Consultant                LEGEA   Lawyer
 Maris O'Rourke          Consultant                EASHD   Peer Reviewer
 Menno Prasad Pradhan    Senior Poverty Specialist EASPR   MonEv
 Rosfita Roesli          Operations Officer        EASHD   Operations
 Haneen Ismail Sayed     Lead Operations Officer   MNSHD   Team Leader
 Marsoedi M. Soedjak     Consultant                EACIF   Implementation
 Jerry G. Strudwick      Sr Education Spec.        EASHD   Education Specialist
 Unggul Suprayitno       Financial Management      EAPCO   Disbursement
                         Specialist
 Adriaan M. Verspoor     Consultant                WBIHD   Peer Reviewer
 Nigel William Wakeham   Consultant                EASHD   Construction
 Supervision/ICR
 Charles Abelmann        Lead Program Coordinator  HRSLO   TTL/ Education Specialist
 Eddy Arinto             Consultant                EASHD   School Rehabilitation Sp.
 Sandra F. Beemer        Consultant                LEGEA   Consultant - Costab
 Mae Chu Chang           Lead Education Specialist EASHD   Education Specialist
 Firman Dharmawan        Contracts Officer         GSDPR   Procurement Specialist
 Richard Murton Evans    Consultant                EASHD   Financial Management
 Titie Hadiyati          Consultant                EASHD   School Rehabilitation Sp.
 Mark Oliver Heyward     Consultant                EASHD   Education Specialist
 Bisma Husen             Procurement Spec.         EAPCO   Procurement Specialist
 Lalu Anja Wistya Kusuma E T Consultant            EASSD   Education Specialist
 Daniel Moulton          Consultant                EASHD   Project Mgt and MoNEV
 Vicente B. Paqueo       Country Sector Coordinator EASHD  Human Development
 Rosfita Roesli          Operations Officer        EASHD   TTL/ Education
 Elsa Warouw             Program Assistant         EASHD   Administrative Assistant

 Rajiv Sondhi            Sr Financial Management
                         Specialist                EAPCO   Financial Management Spc

 Jerry G. Strudwick      Sr Education Spec.        EASHD   Education Specialist
 Parivash Mehrdadi       Program Assistant         EASHD   Administrative Support



                                           31

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs



 No.      Date ISR                                                     Actual Disbursements
          Archived             DO                    IP                      (USD M)
1      07/01/1999        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     0.55
2      09/23/1999        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     2.70
3      04/13/2000        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     8.13
4      05/31/2000        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     8.38
5      12/04/2000        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 13.93
6      02/15/2001        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 16.35
7      03/08/2001        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 19.64
8      06/26/2001        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 19.85
9      12/13/2001        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 23.88
10     12/13/2001        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 23.88
11     05/06/2002        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 28.14
12     05/06/2002        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 28.14
13     10/16/2002        Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 31.19
14     04/29/2003        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   41.16
15     06/25/2003        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   44.13
16     12/23/2003        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   54.36
17     05/18/2004        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   63.09
18     08/06/2004        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   65.14
19     12/23/2004        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   69.76
20     06/17/2005        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   73.23
21     12/27/2005        Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                        73.61
22     05/01/2006        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   73.86


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                    No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                           consultant costs)

Lending
                      FY97                                                               73.85
                      FY98                                                              190.31
                      FY99                                                              105.57
                      FY00                                                                 1.96
                      FY01                                                                 0.00
                      FY02                                                                 0.00
                      FY03                                                                 0.00
                      FY04                                                                 0.00
                      FY05                                                                 0.00
                      FY06                                                                 0.00
                      FY07                                                                 0.00
                                        Total:                                          371.69




                                              32

Supervision/ICR
                 FY97                      0.00
                 FY98                      0.00
                 FY99                     15.76
                 FY00              26     97.32
                 FY01              36     92.65
                 FY02              38     52.31
                 FY03              30     69.15
                 FY04              21     98.78
                 FY05              12     35.49
                 FY06              14     27.99
                 FY07               3     14.88
                         Total:    180    504.33




                             33

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


        Bank              Ratings            Borrower         Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                   Satisfactory   Government:         Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory   Implementing
                                        Agency/Agencies:    Not Applicable

Overall Bank                            Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory   Performance:        Satisfactory




                                       34

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                       35

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                    36

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following comments are inserted without modification and/or editing as required by Bank procedures.

Sumatra Basic Education Project

Program Implementation
The Sumatera Basic Education Project (BEP) was designed and implemented since 1999 and
redesigned in 2002. The project has lasted for about 6 years. This project was originally intended
to reduce the impacts of an economic crisis, particularly on education. The goal of this project is
to improve management, quality, and access to education at the school and community levels and
at the same time strengthen the management of education authorities at the district and province.

The programs implemented by this project are school mapping, school building rehabilitation
(including classroom furniture), new school Construction block grants, Contract teachers, Quality
Improvement Grant (Dana Bantuan Langsung), and madrasah teacher certification.

In 1999, this project made some new breakthroughs in its implementation concept, among others
a participatory concept where the communities were involved in the program implementation
(particularly in the school building rehabilitation program). It seems that this was in accordance
with the Indonesian Government's policy on regional autonomy at that time.

In the course of this project, there have been new things to be learned and obstacles and
challenges arising. But in general, the programs under this project have been implemented well
and the results can benefit schools and the communities.

The following are some brief descriptions of the programs implemented:

School Mapping. In school mapping, there are data on schools from district to provincial level,
rough data on students, and data on teachers. This program has been implemented since the
commencement of this project by all districts in the Sumatera Basic Education Project. The
school map is used as basic information in deciding programs to be implemented (program
planning) such as the selection of block grant beneficiaries, school rehabilitation, new school
construction, information on shortages of teachers, etc. This school map is a prerequisite for
project implementation. It is continuously updated for latest data and monitored regularly at the
national, provincial and district levels.

This mapping program has produced comprehensive, accurate and organized data thus
contributing to program strategic planning.

School rehabilitation. This program is intended to reduce the number of underserved (damaged)
school buildings that cannot provide proper services. The rehabilitation beneficiary schools are
subject to the criteria approved by the World Bank such as level of damage, number of students,
school locations, etc. This data on schools to be rehabilitated is obtained from the school map
annually updated. During its course, the Sumatera Basic Education Project has rehabilitated 861
schools consisting of 436 schools in North Sumatera, 255 schools in Riau and 170 schools in
Bengkulu. 91% of these are elementary schools and 9% are Madrasah. The project uses a
participatory concept upon the principles of transparency, efficiency and effectiveness. This
concept is further followed by most districts as shown by their commitments (as part of the
program sustainability).


                                                  37

New Schools Construction (USB). The new school development program in the Sumatera Basic
Education Project was implemented in FY2003 only with 2 new schools construction - both in the
District (Kabupaten) of Nias. These new schools have been operational despite shortage of
teachers in one of them. It is expected that this shortage can be overcome by the district
immediately.

Many other regions within the Sumatera BEP need to develop new schools. In terms of
implementation and building quality produced by the participatory BEP, the results of
observations and an impact study conducted conclude that the buildings have a good quality and
conform to the specifications, even in some parts better than the specifications. In addition, the
community participation obviously can overcome various problems arising on the construction
site and improve the nearby communities' sense of mutual ownership of the schools. Therefore, it
is expected that the participatory concept of new school development may be continued in the
future.

Block Grants for Quality Improvement (Dana Bantuan Langsung). These block grants are
used for school and community-based education management. It is expected that schools can
learn to determine and plan their own needs. The grants are intended to improve the quality of
schools in their learning and teaching processes by, among others, procuring study audiovisual
aid. Each school receives a maximum of 7,000,000 per annum for elementary schools and Rp
15,000,000 per annum for junior high schools for 3 consecutive years.

During its implementation, the Sumatera BEP has provided block grants for 3,334 SD-MI schools
and 2,182 SMP-MTs schools in North Sumatera, Riau, and Bengkulu. The results of observations
and an impact study conducted conclude that this program has run well and have positive impacts
on the schools. Because this program serves as a stimulant, it is expected that the concept can be
adopted for future use so that a School and Community-Based Management concept can be
applied.

Contract Teachers. They are nonpermanent teachers assigned to schools suffering a shortage of
teachers. This program is particularly intended for junior high school (SLTP)-MTs level. The
main targets are teachers of the subjects tested in the National Final Examination (EBTANAS).
The placement of teachers is also based on the mapping results annually updated. The Contract
Teachers recruited are not automatically appointed to be Civil Servants and the continuity of their
teaching contracts is based on their performance as assessed and reported by their principals.

The Sumatera Basic Education Project recruited 1,542 Contract Teachers in 2002, 1368 in 2003
and 1147 in 2004. Generally, as reported by the principals of the schools where the teachers are
assigned, the Temporary Auxiliary Teachers have performed well.

Matching Grants. These are a stimulant to the participation of stakeholders in providing funds,
labor or anything nominally measurable and are given to private schools. They are a sharing
between BEP and the community/schools on a scale of 75% to 25% with BEP's maximum funds
of Rp 30,000,000. The grants are used to help regional governments improve the quality and
facilities of school buildings, ease schools' burden of operating costs and improve the quality of
learning and teaching process, replace and procure damaged facilities and infrastructure.

In its implementation, the Sumatera BEP has provided support grants for 279 schools, i.e. 80 SD-
MI schools and 199 SMP-MTs schools, totaling Rp 8,510,000,000 applying a participatory
concept.



                                                  38

Classroom Furniture. This program is intended to improve the quality of learning and teaching
facilities in the form of replacement furniture in most schools, particularly at elementary level, as
shown by monitoring results, whose furniture is in poor condition. The furniture grants are
provided for schools having met the criteria in terms of number of students, poor schools, poor
furniture, and particularly DBL beneficiary schools. This program also applies a participatory
concept in which the communities' skills will be used first to produce furniture rather than buying
from others.

In its implementation, the Sumatera BEP has provided furniture grants for 566 schools with 1,501
classrooms. They are 389 schools in North Sumatera, 69 in Riau and 108 in Bengkulu.

Madrasah Teacher Certification. This program is intended to improve the quality of Madrasah
(MI-MTs) teachers because according to observations they have lower quality compared to SD-
SMP teachers in general subjects such as mathematics, natural science, social science, Indonesian
language, etc. This program takes the form of training provided for those teachers according to
the subjects they teach. Participants are selected on the basis of criteria mutually agreed.

It is expected that the successfully certified MI-MTs teachers may improve the quality of their
teaching. The results of monitoring and survey of those teachers and their students conclude that
the teachers, after completing this program, have improved the technical quality of their teaching
and knowledge.

In its implementation, the Sumatera BEP implemented the certification program only in Riau for
76 teachers in the fiscal year 2002.




                                                  39

Annex 11. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                    40

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Concept Note
Project Appraisal Document
Borrowers Completion Report
Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Audit Reports
Aide Memoires and documents prepared for Mid Term Review
Loan Agreements and Loan Amendments
Project Status Reports (PSR/ISR)
World Bank (1998), Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, Report No. 1639-IND,
Education Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank (2004), Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization
Indonesia Sector Review, the World Bank, Washington D.C.




                                              41

MAP IBRD 29789R




                   42

43

