Report No. PID6371
Project Name                     Indonesia-Sumatera Basic Education Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       IDPE40196
Borrower                         Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              Directorate General of Primary and Secondary
Education (Ministry of Education and Culture)
Directorate General of Regional Development,
(Ministry of Home Affairs)
Ministry of Religious Affairs
Date PID Prepared                March 17, 1999
Date Initial PID Updated         March 2, 1998
Appraisal                        September 28, 1998
Projected Board Date             April 8, 1999
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Over the last 25 years, Indonesia has demonstrated impressive gains in
providing basic education: primary education coverage was near
universal, and the gross enrollment rate of junior secondary education
was nearly 70%-. The economic crisis, however, is threatening these
achievements. The crisis is expected to negatively impact education
participation of the poor, a well as the ability of schools in poor
areas to operate. Higher food and transport prices coupled with
increased unemployment and under-employment are likely to threaten the
living standards of many.   Interventions to ensure that access of the
poor to basic education in the short run is not jeopardized and that
quality of basic education does not suffer even more, are necessary.
2.     Objectives
(i) To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis by:
- maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and
transition rates from primary to junior secondary for the poor;
- preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that
schools can meet essential operational and maintenance costs; and
- realizing efficiency gains wherever possible.
(ii) To support recovery and return to the medium-term education
strategy of:
- improving quality of basic education (grades 1-9); and
- decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation
effectively to districts and below.
3.     Project Benefits
(i) Crisis Relief



- children remaining in school (through scholarships to 140,000 junior
secondary school children and school fee relief to 600,000 primary
school children)
- schools remaining operational (through grants to 4,000 primary
schools and 700 junior secondary schools);
(ii)    Institutional Reform
- greater ownership of basic education by the local community;
- a more integrated and better run education system;
- more efficient and equitable distribution of teachers;
(iii)    Quality Improvement
- more effective schools, with increased student achievement;
- more effective and skilled education personnel.
4.     Project Risks
- A worsening economic situation forces even larger numbers of children
out of schools.
- Public expenditure on basic education erodes during adjustment
period.
- Scholarships/grants are directed elsewhere
- Failure in coordination among implementing Government agencies.
- Political will and commitment to make decentralization work is weak
at central, provincial and district level.
5.     Description
- Crisis relief, through a program of scholarships to the 17% poorest
junior secondary students and 40% of primary and junior secondary
schools serving poor areas;
- Institutional development, through support to inter-agency district-
based planning, management and implementation of basic education; and
- Quality improvements through implementation of a teacher training
program, books and learning materials, school consolidation and
rehabilitation, teacher deployment, and grants to private schools.
6.     Financing
Total project cost is expected to be US$84.3 million of which US$74.6
million will be Bank-financed and the remainder will be financed by
government counter-parts. The Bank-financed portion will consist of an
IBRD Loan of US$54.5 million and an IDA Credit of SDR 14.8 million.
7.      Implementation
The project will be implemented in phases in three provinces in Sumatra:
North Sumatra, Bengkulu and Riau. For the institutional development and
quality improvement components, project activities will start with a
subset of the districts in each of the provinces beginning with those
that have satisfactory proposals at the time of project appraisal.
Additional districts will be included during subsequent phases, until
all districts in a province are included in the project. Most project
activities will be implemented at the district level, although the
province will also carry responsibility for certain project activities
-2 -



(e.g., design and development of the teacher in-service training
program, monitoring and evaluation). The crisis relief component
activities will be carried out in all districts from the beginning of
the project.
8.      Sustainability
- Crisis relief activities are not expected to continue beyond the
project lifetime at the initial high levels of coverage (17t of
junior secondary students, 40- of primary and junior secondary
schools), but will be gradually reduced as the economic situation
improves;
- Recurrent cost implications of the quality improvements and
institutional development activities are modest, once the initial
programs have been established.
9.     Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- The main elements for quality improvement are: a decentralized and
participatory in-service teacher training program; reliance on school
clusters and mutual support of teachers; significant community
participation; sufficient quantity of textbooks with increased
teacher use of books and materials; and close MOEC-MOHA cooperation.
- Local communities contribute significantly to the development of
education in their own areas. Stakeholders and clients are essential
in the delivery of the crisis relief programs and are also well
placed to evaluate project outcomes. They know when children are
learning and how investments in schools are being used. Stakeholders
involvement is critical to fully measure project outcomes, to
understand how a project is unfolding and to help develop appropriate
corrective measures when necessary.
10.    Poverty Category
11.    Environmental Aspects
No indigenous peoples plan or resettlement plan necessary.
12.    Program Objective Categories
Poverty Reduction and Human Resource Development, Institution Building
Contact Point:  The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
PID Processed the week ending April 2, 1999.
- 3 -



