Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18634-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$54.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FORA
SUMATERA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
March 17, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1998 - est.)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp I = US$0.000125
US$1.00 = Rp 8,000
SDR I = US$1.36202
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               -   Asian Development Bank
ASEM              -   Asian - European Meeting
Bappenas          -   National Development Planning Agency
Bappeda           -   Regional Development Planning Agency at Provincial (I) and
District (II) Levels
BKKBN             -   Family Planning Agency
BPKP              -   State Auditing Agency
Bupati            -   District Head
BP3               -   Parents Teachers Association
CAS               -   Country Assistance Strategy
CEM               -   Country Economic Memorandum
CPCU              -   Central Project Coordinating Unit
Daerah Percontohan -   Pilot districts for local government autonomy
DCC               -   District Coordination Committee
Dinas P&K         -   Local Government Office for Ministry of Education & Culture
Dinas I           -   Provincial - Level Office of Local Government
Dinas II          -   District - Level Office of Local Govemment
DPIU              -   District Project Implementation Unit
EAP               -   East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank
FKIPs             -   Teacher Training Departments in Universities
GOI               -   Government of Indonesia
GTZ               -   German Development Agency (Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit)
IKIPs             -   Teacher Training Institutions
JS               -   Junior Secondary
Kabupaten         -   Official District Designation
Kandep/Kanin      -   District - Level Office of Central Government
Kanwil            -   Provincial Office of Central Government
KESRA             -   Coordinating Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Kotamadya         -   Official City Designation
KPKN              -   State Treasurer
MOEC              -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOHA              -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA              -   Ministry of Religious Affairs
MOSA              -   Ministry of Social Affairs
NER               -   Net Enrollment Rate
NGO               -   Non-governmental Organization
OECF              -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
Pimpro            -   Project Director
Pimbagpro         -   Sub-project Director
PIP               -   Project Implementation Plan
PODES             -   Potensi Desa (Village Census)
PPIU              -   Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PU                -   Ministry of Public Works
SA                -   Special Account
Sekwilda          -   Secretary of Regional Office
SKB               -   Surat Keputusan Bersama (Joint Governmental Decree)
SMP Terbuka       -   Open Junior Secondary Schools
SOE               -   Statement of Expenditures
SUSENAS           -   Socio-economic Household Survey
Walikota          -   City Mayor
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director: Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader: Brigitte Duces



INDONESIA
Sumatera Basic Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective  ..................................................................                                           2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...........................  2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................                                                        2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..........................................                                       2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ................................................                                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ........................                                        4
C. Project Description  Summary ..................................................................                                             5
1. Project components ..................................................................                                             5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............................                                         7
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                                   7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................                                        8
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                        9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................                                      9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.....    10
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design ................................                                         11
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .....................................    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................                                       13
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................................................                                                  13
1. Economic ..................................................................                                                        13
2. Financial ..................................................................                                                       13
3. Technical ..................................................................                                                       13
4. Institutional ..................................................................                                                   13
5.  Social ............................................................... .                                                  .       14
6. Environmental assessment ..................................................................                                        14
7. Participatory  approach ..................................................................                                         14
F. Sustainability  and  Risks ..................................................................                                                15
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                  15
2. Critical risks ..................................................................                                                  15
3. Possible controversial aspects ..................................................................                                  16



G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................                                    16
1. Effectiveness conditions ...................................                         16
2. Other ...................................                                             16
H. Readiness for Implementation ...................................                            17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................                           17
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2. Project Description .23
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .27
Annex 4. Economic Analysis .28
Annex 5. Fiscal Impact Analysis .44
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .52
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .52
Table Al.  Selection & Hiring of Consultants           ................................ 55
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .56
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .57
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .64
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .65
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .67
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance ......................    69
Map



Indonesia
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date March 17, 1999                                 Task Team Leader: Brigitte Duces
Country Manager/Director: Dennis de Tray            Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Project ID: ID-PE-40196   Sector: Education         Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction and
Human Resource Development/Institution Building
Lending Instrument: SIL                             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x ] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data                 [x] Loan      [x] Credit      [  Guarantee    [ ] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): (IBRD Loan: US$54.5 million); (IDA Credit: SDR 14.8 million)
Proposed terms:                           [   Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 3 (10)     []  Standard Variable  [x] Fixed         []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15 (35)
Commitment charge: 0.75% (0.5%)
Service charge: .. (0.75%)
Bank fee: 1%(..)
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                  8.8               0.9              9.7
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                       50.6               3.9             54.5
IDA                                                        18.6                1.5            20.1
Other (specify)
Total      78.0                6.3             84.3
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education, Ministry of Education and Culture;
Directorate-General of Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs; Ministry of Religious Affairs
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):    1999      2000       2001       2002   2003   2004  2005
IBRD 1% Front end fee 0.545
Annual 9.1        13.5       15.9      18.5   12.7   4.4   74.6
Cumulative 9.6       23.1       39.0       57.5   70.2   74.6
Project implementation period: 6 years Expected effectiveness date: 7/1/99  Expected closing date: 4/30/2006



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
In the provinces of Sumatera Utara, Riau, and Bengkulu:
(i) To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis by:
*  maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from primary to
junior secondary for the poor;
*  preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that schools can meet essential
operational and maintenance costs; and
*  realizing efficiency gains wherever possible.
(ii) To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of:
* improving quality of basic education (grades 1-9); and
* decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation effectively to districts
and below.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex I):
CAS document number: 18963-IND   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 9, 1999
The project supports the short-term strategy of reinforcing social safety nets:
delivering basic education services to the poor by supporting poor students and schools through
a successful back-to-school campaign (para. 36).
It also supports the medium-term:
* emphasizing institutional strengthening in support of human resource development, greater
decentralization of education management and increased autonomy of schools (para. 49); and
* improving basic education quality (para. 49).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
* Effect of the economic crisis on the education sector. The current economic crisis is expected to
have a significant negative impact on education participation by the poor, as well as the ability of schools
in poor areas to operate. Higher food and transport prices coupled with increased unemployment and
under-employment are likely to threaten the living standards of many. Initiatives to ensure that access of
the poor to basic education in the short run is not jeopardized and that quality of basic education does not
suffer even more, are necessary. Past experience in Indonesia (1986) has shown that the combined effects
of reductions in public expenditure on education, increases in school fees, and declines in private incomes
resulted in a decline in school enrollment for the poor at the basic education level (Education in
Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998). Recent survey work suggests it is happening again.
* Ineffective institutional arrangements. A major constraint to achieving more and better high-
quality basic education are the current institutional arrangements. The most important constraints are: (i)
the splitting of responsibility for delivery of primary education among various government agencies
which results in a lack of accountability for results; (ii) overly centralized management at the junior
secondary level; (iii) little autonomy for principals and lower level managers and ineffective school
management; (iv) a fragmented and rigid budgetary process; (v) civil service incentive structures that do
not reward good teaching practices and lead to an uneven allocation of teachers in schools; and (vi) little



3
community involvement partly as a result of crowding out by the public sector. (Education in Indonesia:
From Crisis to Recovery, 1998).
* Unsatisfactory quality of basic education. Graduates are leaving basic education with low
numeracy, reading and reasoning skills. In addition to the institutional factors identified above, the
following factors contribute to unsatisfactory student outcomes: (i) a large stock of poorly trained
teachers; (ii) inadequate time-on-task in all grades, but especially in grades 1 and 2; (iii) insufficient
resources, particularly for schools in poor communities and for the large number of private junior
secondary schools; (iv) low levels and quality of textbooks and materials; (v) ineffective curriculum
implementation and lack of student learning assessment tools; (vi) dilapidated and unsafe primary school
buildings; and (vii) insufficient monitoring and evaluation of quality. (Education in Indonesia: From
Crisis to Recovery, 1998).
* Low demand for junior secondary education by the poor and low primary completion rates.
Even before the crisis, primary school completion rates in the project provinces were low (see Annex 4;
Statistical Attachments); they are expected to decline because of the economic crisis . Factors
contributing to low completion rates are late entry and high repetition in the early years. Similarly, junior
secondary net enrollment rates were low (Annex 4) and are particularly low for the bottom income groups
because of high direct costs and indirect costs of schools. Households' uncertainty about the benefits of
junior secondary education in the labor market also reduces participation. From the public finance side,
there are high resource costs for the government to expand access to junior secondary schools without
private schools continuing to satisfy a large portion of the demand; in addition, there are inefficiencies
related to teacher allocation and incentives, which make delivery of basic education more costly than it
need be. All these constraints are exacerbated by the current economic crisis.
Government Strategy
The Government of Indonesia's (GOI) objective at the basic education level is to have a system where:
(i) all children successfully complete 9 years of education; (ii) management and delivery for basic
education is in the hands of the local government (Bupati and her/his staff) but with strong monitoring
and oversight by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC); (iii) schools have more autonomy over
their budgets and staff; (iv) teacher allocations and distribution would be more equitable and reflect
actual needs, especially in rural areas, and would be supported by teacher incentives that reward good
teaching; (v) an ongoing in-service teacher training program of high quality is available for all teachers,
including those in religious and private schools, and is strongly linked to the books and educational
materials that are used in the classroom; (vi) a planning process is active based on school mapping; and
(vii) parents and communities actively participate in the schools in their area where they would be
responsible for the maintenance of their schools and would receive adequate rehabilitation funds.
The severity of the economic crisis has slowed down the achievement of these objectives. GOI has
responded by formulating the following "crisis strategy" for the coming 1-3 years:
Crisis Strategy:
Sustaining investments in basic education and shielding the poor from adverse consequences of
the economic crisis. The Government has launched a five-year national "Back-to-School" program
($390 million) to provide scholarships for the 17% poorest junior secondary school-age children and
school grants to 60% of primary and junior secondary schools serving poor communities starting July
1998. The program is supported from funds provided by the ADB ($86 million) and the Bank ($296
million). This project is expected to contribute $28 million of the World Bank share.
At the same time, GOI has revised the 1998/99 budget (June program) to include significant
reallocation of public spending to basic education. The 1998/99 basic education budget has been
preserved in real terms to 1996/97 levels.



4
Medium-term Strategy:
* Decentralizing delivery of basic education and enhancing interagency cooperation. GOI's
institutional strategy is to put the responsibility for service delivery closer to the community. This is part
of an overall strategy to decentralize functions of central government, including education, to the district
level. In the districts piloted for the strategy starting in 1997 (through the Daerah Percontohan, DP,
program), offices of line ministries were abolished and staff and resources transferred to the dinas (local
government office). In the case of education, kandep (MOEC office at district) was transformed into.
inspection offices called Kantor Inspeksi or Kanin. The responsibility of implementing the basic
education program was given to the Bupati (head of district) or Walikota (city mayor). At the Special
Assembly of Parliament at the end of 1998, a Decree of MPR (RI No. XV/MPR/1998) was issued
delegating wide autonomy to the Regions and paving the way for further steps toward decentralization.
The implementation of this decree is now under further, intensive discussion in Parliament.
* Improving quality. In addition to the provision of free textbooks for all primary and junior
secondary schools and quality improvements, GOI has adopted various policies and implemented
activities for upgrading the quality of its teachers since the mid-1980s with varying degrees of success:
pre-service training of primary teachers has been increased to a two-year postsecondary diploma (DII)
and junior secondary teachers to a three-year postsecondary diploma (DIII). For junior secondary
teachers, an extensive in-service training program (PKG and MGMP) has been implemented with regular
training and school visits by core teachers in each province. For primary schools, several pilots for in-
service training are now in operation (primarily in the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project).
GOI has also piloted some efforts to foster community participation in basic education. These efforts,
while producing some gains, require further improvements and must now be rethought in terms of
resource availability in the coming few years of economic recession.
* Increasing access to junior secondary. In addition to abolishing fees and building additional
schools, GOI's pre-crisis strategy included: (i) providing scholarships to needy students; (ii) expanding
alternative modes of junior secondary education (SMP terbuka and Paket B); and (iii) providing
assistance to private schools in the form of matching grants, teacher secondments, and books and
materials. The pace of the expansion will be slowed down now and resources are instead redirected to
maintain enrollments and transition rates through targeted scholarships.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Of the sector issues discussed in Section 2, the project will address the following to varying degrees and
at different time periods: (i) the adverse impact of the economic crisis on poor households' investment in
education and poor schools' ability to operate; (ii) ineffective and overly-centralized institutional
arrangements; and (iii) unsatisfactory quality of basic education.
A schematic view of the structure of the project is provided in Attachment 1 of Annex 2. Initially, the
project would focus on crisis-relief activities, and gradually phase in the pre-crisis agenda as the
economy recovers. During the first two years, the focus will be on keeping poor children in school and
schools in poor communities operational. Hence, almost all project funds during the initial years would
be allocated to scholarships and school block grants.
At the same time, the crisis should not deflect attention from the medium-term agenda of institutional
reform. In addition to the long-term benefits of these reforms, many do not require large amounts of
resources to implement, hence can be undertaken in this resource-constrained environment. The main
institutional issues addressed by the project are: (i) the splitting of responsibility for delivery of primary
education among various government agencies; (ii) the overly centralized management at the junior
secondary level; (iii) the fragmented budgetary process; and (iv) little community involvement in
education and ineffective school management.



5
In addition, the issue of inefficient use of resources from the overabundance of primary school facilities
(due to declining school-age group since the early 1 990s) will be addressed through the school
consolidation program required of every project district. Indeed, given the efficiency gains which such
consolidation will achieve, this activity will be included among the priorities at the outset of the project.
Beyond these reforms, additional ones are unlikely since these already constitute significant changes for
the education sector and it is important to focus on their successful implementation before introducing
additional changes.
Quality enhancing activities will be phased in as the economy recovers (expected by the second year of
the project), and as districts show their readiness to implement these more complex and skill-intensive
activities, Only a selection of quality issues will be addressed including: poor training of teachers
(through in-service cluster-based training); poor conditions of primary schools (rehabilitation of schools
by the community); low levels and quality of materials (additional financing and provision); ineffective
school management (selective training of principals and supervisors); problems with appropriate
distribution of teachers (contract teachers and incentives for rural areas, changes in teacher allocation
formula, redeployment of teachers); lack of resources and teacher quality in private schools (through
matching grants and teacher upgrading programs).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category        Cost Incl.     % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
Li_(US$M)             (US$M)  financing
1. Crisis Relief            Scholarships,         28.2         33.4      27.5       97.5
Grants, Training,
Project
Management
2. Institutional Development  Goods, Training,     10.1         12.0       8.9       88.1
Project
Management,
Consultants
3. Quality Improvement      Goods,                39.0          46.3     31.3        80.5
Consultants,
Civil works,
Private School
Grants, Training
4. Project Management       Goods, Training,        6.5          7.7       6.4       98.5
Consultants,
Project
Management
Loan Fee                                            .5           .6        .5       100
Total      84.3        100.0      74.6        88.5
The project components are based on district-prepared plans reflecting issues and priorities in the
districts. Even though all provinces in Indonesia will receive crisis-relief interventions, the distribution of
the scholarships and school grants are based on the incidence of poverty in each province and district.



6
1. Crisis Relief
For the scholarships and grants program, about 17% (for Sumatera Utara), 12% (for Riau) and 15% (for
Bengkulu) of the junior secondary students will receive scholarships, against a national average of 16.1
%. For the school grants, 37% of the schools in Sumatera Utara, 28% in Riau and 33% in Bengkulu
will receive grants, againts a national average of 40%. Poverty incidence in the the provinces is slightly
below average for the country. Within Sumatera Utara, there are wide divergences in poverty, with some
kabupaten (Nias, Tapanuli Tengah and Tebing Tinggi) with a poverty index 4 or 5 times as high as the
kotamadya (Medan, Binjai or Tanjung Balai) or kabupaten Karo, Langkat or Labuhan Batu. Within Riau,
while overall poverty is lower, there is an equally wide divergence between the kotamadya (Batam and
Pekanbaru) and some of the kabupaten (Indragiri Hulu and Indragiri Hilir), mainly in the swampy areas.
Within Bengkulu, a smaller province, both in land area and in population, with only 4 kabupaten, there is
less divergence in poverty.
2. Institutional Development
The project supports inter-agency district-based planning, management, and implementation of basic
education in order to address the issue of scattered responsibilities and overly centralized operations. At
the district levels, five-year and annual plans are prepared which integrate and coordinate the activities of
MOEC, MORA, BAPPEDA and Dinas P&K. Responsibility for implementing the plans rests with the
Bupati who heads an inter-agency implementing unit which he appoints. The project is funded through
one source of funds only (for more details on institutional arrangements, see Section C.4 below). Below
the districts, the sub-districts are the focal point where location maps of primary and junior secondary
schools are prepared for use in school consolidation and better distribution of teachers. At the school
level, increased resources are provided in the form of block grants to encourage school autonomy
including the functioning of school committees. The latter will be particularly important in selection and
administration of student scholarships and school grants (Component 1). Furthermore, communities will
be responsible for the rehabilitation of primary schools with funds going directly to them. Finally, this
component supports the carrying out of organizational, staffing and other assessments of the capability
and capacity of the different agencies at provincial, district and kecamatan levels to plan, budget and
implement basic education programs. Results of the assessments will be used to determine reallocation of
staff between agencies with a view of strengthening local government agencies (Dinas P&K, BAPPEDA).
3. Quality Improvements
Teacher Training Program. One of the key elements for quality improvement is the in-service teacher
training program. The teacher support system in mainland areas works with the school clusters,
consisting of groups of closely located schools, where regular teacher meetings are held after school
hours, to develop teaching materials, discuss problems, and prepare class activities. This model does not
work well in remote and scarcely populated areas, such as in the islands of Riau Province. A pilot "island
training model" is being supported in Riau, with teacher tutors visiting island schools, supported with
more in-depth teacher training once a year in the district capital. For private religious schools, most
schools do not have qualifications, and the project will support teacher up-grading and certification.
School Consolidation, and Rehabilitation. A primary school rehabilitation program will be supported
which provides funds directly to communities to utilize for that purpose.
Teacher Deployment. The project will support the provision of approximately 1500 contract teachers for
junior secondary schools in remote rural areas. In addition and on a limited basis, incentives such as
teacher housing, relocation costs and other such programs will be supported to relocate teachers to remote
rural areas. At the national level, a Policy Reform Working Group on Teachers will be supported which
will evaluate current teacher workforce issues, including deployment policies and incentives, and propose
alternatives to the current system.



7
Private School Grants. Based on proposals from schools, matching grants will be provided to private
schools for rehabilitation of school buildings, and provision of equipment and furniture.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* A substantial increase in support to the poor in the community, to ensure enrollment of their children
in basic education. A substantial expansion of the school grants for the poorest schools, where
parental financial support is minimal. Involvement from communities and NGO's in the delivery and
monitoring of these programs.
* A decentralized institutional framework for the management and delivery of basic education, with
integrated planning by the different agencies involved in basic education, and increasing
implementation responsibilities by local government. One implementing unit only will be created at
the district level drawing from the different relevant agencies and headed by Bupati. Only one source
of funding is used in the project. Involvement by parents and communities is actively sought.
* A long-term plan for a more efficient and effective teaching force. For the short-term, some
important prerequisites would be addressed in this project such as changing the teacher allocation
formula from one that is school-based to a pupil-based allocation ratio, and incentives offered for
teaching in rural and remote schools.
* Increase of support to private schools to ensure an increase in their quality in the form of matching
grants.
* A school rationalization plan based on school mapping activities, to ensure that underused schools are
streamlined and consolidated if possible, and that new school buildings are optimally placed.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
(1) Crisis Relief
-   children remaining in school (through scholarships to 260,000 junior secondary school
children and school fee relief to 825,000 primary school children)
-   schools remaining operational (through grants to 5,500 primary schools and 1,300 junior
secondary schools);
(2) Institutional Reform
*   greater ownership of basic education by the local community;
*   a more integrated and better run education system;
* more efficient and equitable distribution of teachers;
(3) Quality Improvement
* more effective schools, with increased student achievement;
* more effective and skilled education personnel.
Target population:
*   school-age children, especially poor children who would be able to remain in school during
the worst crisis period; and have better quality schooling subsequently;
*   teachers, principals, supervisors, tutors and other education personnel at the district level and
below who would gain increased skills and resources;
*   Communities and parents who would become more closely involved with the schools in their
areas.



8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented in phases in the project provinces. During the crisis period, the
scholarships and school grants program would be implemented in all districts in all seven provinces. The
other project components would be implemented gradually during subsequent years as economic
conditions improve in Sumatera Utara, Riau and Bengkulu, and depending on the readiness of each
district and the capacity at the provincial level. Most project activities would be implemented at the
district level, although the province would also carry responsibility for certain project activities (e.g.,
design and development of the teacher in-service training program, monitoring and evaluation).
(a) For the Crisis Relief Component
For the scholarships and grants program, the financing will come from several World Bank projects
(junior secondary education and other basic education projects) and from the ADB. For this component,
the project would follow the organizational arrangements of the overall scholarships and grants program.
This includes a Central Coordination Project Unit (CPCU) responsible for overall program coordination
and represented by the three main implementing agencies (MOEC, MORA and MOHA) and reports to the
Central Steering Committee. Province and district-level Coordination Committees (PCCs and DCCs),
chaired by Bappeda, will be responsible for selection and targeting, training of educational staff in the
program and program administration. School Committees will be responsible for selection of scholarship
recipients. These Committees will include heads of various agencies (MOEC, MORA, MOHA, MOF,
MOSA, Sekwilda, Post Office, Dinas P&K, KESRA, BKKBN, and PU) and members of civil society and
NGOs.
(b) For the other Components
A joint ministerial decree (SKB) has been agreed upon and signed by MOEC, MORA, MOHA,
providing the organizational structure for delivery of basic education at the district level. The SKB brings
the various agencies together under one umbrella for planning, budgeting and implementation of basic
education. This process begins at the district level, with each district preparing its medium-term
investment plan (5 years) based on an analysis of its education problems and identification of priorities.
In addition, the SKB calls for the rehabilitation of primary schools to be carried out by the school
committees (with community representation).
For project implementation a single District Project Implementation Unit (DPIU) is established drawing
upon staff from the three concerned implementing agencies (Dinas P&K, Kandep Dikbud, Kandep
Agama) and in adequate numbers to provide the necessary technical expertise to implement the project.
The Bupati appoints the three main heads of the DPIU (project manager, treasurer, secretary), one from
each agency, by signing and issuing their letters of appointments, thus ensuring that this unit reports to the
Bupati and he/she is accountable. The three main heads and the technical staff of the DPIU will be
chosen from the three implementing agencies based upon recommendations from heads of the
departments. The Minister of Education and Culture delegates to the Bupati the authority to appoint the
project staff, thus reinforcing the role of local government, while at the same time not relinquishing the
role of the central government (if Bupati does not deliver, the Minister has the authority to withdraw the
delegation).
At the provincial level, a Provincial Project Implementing unit (PPIU) is established in the Kanwil with
staff appointed by the Ministry of Education. It similarly draws upon staff from the three concerned
agencies in adequate numbers.
At the central level, a Central Coordinating Project Unit (CPCU) is established for overall program
support, technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation, and financial management.



9
At the provincial and district levels, Coordination Committees (PCC and DCC) and at the central level, a
Steering Committee (CSC) are established for policy making, guidance, and coordination. These units
are the same as those already established for the national scholarship and block grants program (see
above).
Only one source of funding (DIP), which goes directly to the DPIU, PPIU, or CPCU (as needed), will be
utilized in the project.
For planning and budgeting, overall project plans and annual plans will be developed at the district
level, under the coordination of the Bappeda II, integrating the different agencies involved in Basic
Education: kandep MOEC, kandep MORA, Dinas P&K II and Bupati's office. The plans will be
reviewed and signed off by the Bupati in each district, who will be responsible for ensuring that
implementation is carried out adequately. At the provincial level, plans will be reviewed by each of the
agencies at Level 1, and the integrated plans sent through the Governor's office to the national level-
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
• A crisis-relief only project. One alternative is to design a project only for crisis-relief and wait until
conditions are starting to return to normal before initiating a quality and access expansion project.
The decision on one project which includes both crisis interventions and other programs will allow
greater flexibility during the project to phase in activities, as they are needed. It also maintains the
strong district and province focus.
*  Different financing options to mitigate the impact of the crisis. Cross-country experience
indicates that scholarships can be an effective means of enabling the poor to attend school (Demand
Side Financing, World Bank 1997), while school grants are more effective in increasing school
participation and autonomy. In the project, block grants to schools have been chosen as the preferred
option to maintain enrollment at the primary level, while at the junior secondary level, a combination
of scholarships and school grants have been selected. A scholarship program for primary students
was rejected since the scale of such a program would quickly become too unwieldy to manage,
implement and monitor. Instead, schools are given guidelines that include allocating a certain
proportion of the block grant to defray the costs of education for those who cannot afford it, thereby
promoting the school's autonomy and flexibility to find local solutions.
*  Planning, budgeting and implementation at the national instead of district level. While project
preparation may seem more manageable if carried out at the national level, it creates a lack of
ownership at the lower levels. Moreover, as project design is expected to reflect local needs, district
level involvement is essential. There are, however, costs to this preferred approach. There is a high
learning curve for the districts since they have no prior involvement in processes of this kind. Other
country experience, as well as Indonesia's experience in other sectors indicate that the potential
benefits of decentralization, however, outweigh the potential costs.
*  Involvement of one sectoral agency instead of multiple agencies. A single agency project could
result in easier implementation. However, it would strengthen the divide between the Ministries of
Education and Culture, Home Affairs, and Religous Affairs, which has been a deterrent to achieving
good quality basic education. For the preferred alternative to work effectively, clearly allocated
responsibilities among different agencies and levels of government is critical. Mechanisms and
incentives for coordination should also be built into project design.



10
Excluding private schools. There are a large number of private schools (muhammadyah, pesantren
and catholic), especially at the junior secondary. Quality in these schools is low, with more severe
teacher shortages and low teacher skills, poor building construction and maintenance and a severe
lack of books and materials. Maintaining the viability of these schools is important because they are
attended by children from low-income families and are often the only alternative available in rural
and remote areas. To raise the quality of private schools, and to serve the poor, these schools have
been included in the project, with some targeted programs for quality improvements.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                Project         Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Primary education quality         Primary Education         S               S
Quality
Improvement
Project (Loan 3448)
Secondary education quality       Second Secondary          S               S
Education ( 3158)
Junior secondary education quality and  East Java/NTT       S               S
access; management deconcentration of Junior Secondary
junior secondary education        Education (4042)
Central Indonesia        S                S
(4062)
Sumatra (4095)           S                S
Teacher training quality and teacher    Primary School      S               S
distribution                      Teacher
Development
(3496)
Secondary School         S               S
Teacher
Development
(3979)
Textbooks and reading promotion   Book and Reading          S               S
Development
(3887)



I1
Decentralization and deconcentration    West Java Basic    NA               NA
in management of basic education;  Education
basic education quality and expansion
in access to junior secondary education South Sulawesi and
Eastern Islands          NA              NA
Basic Education
Other Development Agencies
OECF Junior secondary school      Junior Secondary
building                          Education
ADB Junior secondary education    Junior Secondary
Education
ADB Private junior secondary      Private Junior
education                         Secondary
Education
ADB Primary and junior secondary  Basic Education
education                         (MORA)
ADB Social Protection Sector Loan  Social Protection
Sector Development
Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
From Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An Assessment of Two Decades of Lending (OED
Doc. No. 9752, 1991):
X   Decentralized institutional capacity building is basic to the long-term goal of increasing the
self-sufficiency of the education system.
*  Previous projects, mainly national in scope, were either overly complex or underestimated
absorption capacity, resulting in unsatisfactory implementation.
From the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (PEQIP, Loan 3448-IND)
* The main elements for quality improvement are: a decentralized and participatory in-service
teacher training program; reliance on school clusters and mutual support of teachers;
significant community participation; sufficient quantity of textbooks with increased teacher
use of books and materials; and close MOEC-MOHA cooperation.
From the Village Infrastructure Project for Java and the Second Village Infrastructure Project (VIP
and VIP II, Loan Nos. 3888-IND and 4100-IND)
* Though varied, community capacities are nearly always higher than official sources initially
believe.
* Effective use of local organizations require giving them resources and responsibilities.
* Most Indonesian communities can satisfactorily manage simple administration, procurement,
and bookkeeping, and can comply with national standards provided they are given formats.



12
*   There are benefits to be gained in giving higher credibility to local governments, provincial
and district administrations.
*  Efforts to enhance institutional capacity of local governments need to be coupled with efforts
to enhance human resource capacity.
* Although there may be in principle a strong commitment to decentralize on the part of the
central government, the actions of central government are often not in line with the
principles underlying decentralization.
* There is a need to ensure that decision-makers at the local level have access to education
ability and competence, and make decisions accordingly, rather than as a result of political
considerations.
From the Secondary Education Project (Loan No. 2472-IND) and the Second Secondary Education
and Management Project (Loan No. 3158-IND)
*  Changes and improvements to schools are very difficult to manage from the central level,
because they tend to be global solutions and are often not appropriate to local conditions.
*  Local communities contribute significantly to the development of education in their own
areas. Stakeholders and clients are also well placed to evaluate project outcomes. They know
when children are learning and how investments in schools are being used. Stakeholders
involvement is critical to fully measure project outcomes, to understand how a project is
unfolding and to help develop appropriate corrective measures when necessary.
From the Community Participation In Planning and Management of Educational Resources Project
(COPLANER) (UNDP)
-  There are advantages to be gained from an expanded role of local government in the
provision of and support for educational services, especially in the Indonesian context,
where cultural and ethnic differences are best taken into account when action is closer to
home.
-  There is considerable evidence that community organizations substantially increased the
extent and character of community contributions to education,
- Project activities successfully brought together local government and non-government
community leaders as member of the community organizations. This enabled the
development of common goals and actions.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment to Crisis Relief The national "Back-to-School" Program, which was launched by the
President on June 29, consists of a coalition of Ministers from Education and Culture, Religious Affairs,
Population, Home Affairs, Bappenas, and is led by the Coordinating Minister for Social Welfare. This is
a strong indication of GOI's commitment at the highest levels to mitigate the impact of the economic
crisis on the poor. In addition, GOI's agreement in the revised June budget to preserve allocations for
basic education to the 1996/97 levels in real terms is another sign of its support for crisis relief programs.
Commitment to a more decentralized and multi-sectoral system to deliver basic education is
demonstrated through the preparation and signing of the joint decree (SKB) between MOEC, MORA and
MOHA on October 27, 1998 prior to project approval.
Over the medium term, GOI is committed to achieving universal enrollment for basic education as soon
as conditions return to normal and to ensure a good quality basic education for all.



13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* The Bank has been the driving force behind the National "back-to-school" program bringing together
other multi-lateral and bi-laterial donors.
* This project is part of an overall program for crisis relief, and basic education quality improvements
supported by the Bank.
* The Bank can act as an effective catalyst in improving coordination between government agencies.
* The Bank will bring to Indonesia's benefit its experience in decentralized, district-based education
project design, implementation, and evaluation in other large and populous Asian countries (India and
China).
* Technical experience and lessons learned gained from other education sector capacity development
projects, especially in planning, evaluation and improving primary school quality.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis
The reverse-switching method of cost-benefit analysis indicates that the benefits of the primary
quality component far exceed the cost and yields a social return of at least 10 percent in both
Sumatera Utara and Bengkulu, even though less so in Riau. In the case of the junior secondary
quality component, social returns of at least 10 percent can be enjoyed when graduates switch out of
the agricultural sector into other sectors. See Annex 4 for assumptions, methodology and
estimations.
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[X] Other: Economics of scholarships and school grants.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): Fiscal impact analysis
3. Technical:
*   The scholarships and school grants program requires adhering to a selection and targeting
mechanism for poor students and poor schools. The mechanism needs to be simple to
follow and effective in reaching the poor. District Committees and schools throughout
each province need to be trained annually. Public awareness needs to be raised in a media
campaign. Effective monitoring needs to be in place. These issues have been discussed
and agreed upon with GOI. (see Annex 4 on design of selection and targeting, and
monitoring and evaluation).
*   Special programs need to be developed for schools on remote islands such as a different
teacher training model, employment of contract teachers, and incentives for teachers in these
areas. (see Annex 8 for Guidelines developed for each program).
*   In order to ensure more local accountability and involvement in education, primary school
rehabilitation is to be carried out by communities. Guidelines spelling out rehabilitation
procedures and a system of support from field engineers have been developed (see Annex 8
for Guidelines for rehabilitation of SD/MI schools).
4. Institutional:
* An institutional framework for education management at the district level was developed for
implementation in the project, with agreements reached between the key agencies involved.
This framework will be implemented during the project and adjusted if needed (see Annex 8).
* Existing financial systems and internal controls at the CPCU and provincial and district



14
levels will be reviewed. Results of the review will be used in the design of appropriate
systems, including development of documented procedures for project accounting and
reporting at the CPIU, PPIUs, and DPIUs. There is limited experience and possibly
inadequate staff skills to carry out the financial management of the project. Appropriate
training is provided under the project.
* Based on assessments done during project preparation (see Annex 8. Building Institutional
Capacity Working Paper) district-level capacity for project implementation was found to be
mixed. The capacity building programs in the project will be responsive to the weaknesses
found.
5. Social:
*   To maintain the pre-crisis gender equality in enrollments at the basic education level,
approximately 50% of the recipients of the junior secondary scholarships would be girls.
*   Other social risks relate to consolidation of schools which will necessitate transferring of
teachers and principals and will likely generate resistance. Incentives will be awarded to
transferring to rural/remote areas.
*   While the areas covered by the project include some vulnerable isolated groups, the project
is not establishing new schools and hence no particularly negative impact from the project is
expected on these groups. Quality improvements in schools will provide positive impact.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ ] A  [ ] B  [x] C
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Parents Associations, school managers and school committees (consisting of at least 50% civil
society) are involved in implementation, primarily in the crisis relief component and in the
rehabilitation and maintenance programs of primary schools.
Institutions at the local government level (MOEC, MOHA, MORA, and Bappeda) whose
contribution and involvement in planning and implementation was largely executive, will take on
greater planning and management responsibilities.
Private school Yayasans (Associations) will be actively participating and implementing the
project activities intended for private schools.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Civil Society representatives including NGOs will form 50% of the district committees which will
select scholarship and block grant recipients. They will also be involved in the monitoring of the
scholarship and block grant programs.
Teacher training institutions (IKIPs) will contribute staff and resources to the in-service teacher
training programs.
Other donors (OECF, GTZ, ADB) who also work in basic education have been extensively
consulted and their staff are participating in project preparation. For the scholarship and school
grants program, the Bank is leading a multi-donor effort, including the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), UNICEF, UNDP and bilateral agencies (AusAID, ASEM and the British Council).



15
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The fiscal impact analysis (Annex 5) indicates that even though during project lifetime, the fiscal
impact reaches as high as 40 percent of provincial education budgets, after the project is completed its
recurrent cost implications are not high (as a percent of the provincial education budgets of North
Sumatera, Bengkulu, and Riau, recurrent costs are 6, 5 and 5 percent, respectively). This is because: (i)
crisis-relief activities are not expected to continue beyond project lifetime at such high levels of coverage
(17% of junior secondary students, 40% of primary and junior secondary schools); and (ii) maintenance
levels of teacher training programs will be much reduced.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
A worsening economic situation forces large          H         The scholarship and block grant
numbers of children out of schools.                            program has been substantially
expanded, but may not be enough.
Public expenditure on basic education erodes during  S         The 1998/99 basic education
adjustment period.                                             expenditures have been maintained at
1996/97 levels in real terms.
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Political will and commitment to make                M         Overall, GOI is strongly committed to
decentralization work is weak at central, provincial           decentralization to the district level and
and district levels.                                           has taken some appropriate initial steps
(necessary decrees are in place). Staff
in MOEC, however, will need to
develop increased commitment to the
decentralization agenda.
Bupati does not take responsibility for the delivery  S        Some Bupatis will take this task very
of basic education in the district and does not ensure         seriously and will take on the
that interagency cooperation works.                            responsibility for good-quality
education in their district; there will be
some Bupatis whose concern will not
be adequate. The project will introduce
incentives (such as, awards scheme,
increased technical assistance where
skills are weak, and publishing of
district performance indicators to
introduce competition among Bupatis.
Delay in providing counterpart funds in sufficient    S        During crisis condition, Bank cost-
amounts.                                                       sharing ratio will be high for education
projects.
SKB (decree) on planning, budgeting and M&E is       M         SKB was produced with the extensive
not fully accepted by all agencies as interim solution         involvement of all agencies and reflects
and implemented accordingly.                                   their interests as much as possible.



16
Scholarships/grants are directed elsewhere.          S         The project will implement a strong
monitoring program, using NGO's, a
national media-campaign, and involve
civil society and NGO's in the district
committees.
SD School Building Operations and Maintenance        M         School operations and maintenance
Program is not implemented and adhered to.                     program forms part of the project;
appropriate procedures will be
developed, including additional training
if necessary.
Overall Risk Rating                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                         Type of    Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
I   Risk     Rating I
GOI implementation of decentralization strategy    G         S          Explicit decrees will need to
be in place starting with the
SKB (signed at
negotiations).
Teacher allocation and distribution program
G        S           The project supports
incentives for teacher
transfers, including to
remove areas.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The establishment of Provincial and District Project Implementation Units (PPIUs and DPIUs) in the
project provinces and the first group of districts, respectively.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
The Borrower shall:
1. establish and maintain at the district levels DPIUs in the first group of districts by effectiveness (see
above), by May 1, 2000 DPIUs in the second group of districts, and by May 1, 2001 DPIUs in the third
group of districts.
2. no later than December 31, 2000 for the first group of districts, June 1, 2001 for the second group of
districts, and June 1, 2002 for the third group of districts, carry out a review of the terms of reference of
DINAS P&K staff, revise the TORs as necessary for the decentralization of further education
responsibilities to local government, and thereafter maintain DINAS P&K with competent staff in
adequate numbers.



17
3. prepare consolidation plan for primary schools no later than: June 1, 2000 for the first group of
districts, June 1, 2001 for the second group of districts, and June 1, 2002 for the third group of districts;
and thereafter carry out such plans.
4. prepare plans for the training and deployment, as teachers or administrators, of school principals
declared redundant due to school consolidation no later than: August 1, 2000 for the first group of
districts, August 1, 2001 for the second group of districts, and August 1, 2002 for the third group of
districts; and thereafter carry out such plans.
5. furnish to the Bank the annual budgetary and technical plans by October of each year, starting
October 1, 1999; and thereafter carry out the plans.
6. prepare guidelines for the deployment of primary school teachers no later than December 1, 2002;
and thereafter deploy teachers accordingly.
7. prepare a proposal for the funding of operation and maintenance at primary schools by February 1,
200 1; and thereafter carry out an action plan for O&M funding.
8. grants and scholarships will be provided in accordance with procedures and conditions, acceptable to
the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[I] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  s,)4       z        =
_/Fr~igtte Duces
Sector Manager/Director: _  _      _     _     _      _
Alan Ruby
Country Manager/Director: _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _
Dennis de Tray



18
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Indonesia: Sumatera Basic Education Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Maintenance and eventual    1. Average gross enrollment    L.&2. Independent        (Not applicable)
increase in the equitable mix    rate (APK) over the life of the   monitoring report (sample-
(poverty/gender/ regional) and   project equal to 96/97 rates.    based surveys). Annually
quality of students graduating                            SUSENAS (Socio economic
from basic education (1-9).  2. Average transition rates  national survey)
(SD-STLP) over the life of the   MOEC/MORA
project equal to 1996/97 levels,  administrative data.
3. 90% of targeted schools  3. Independent monitoring
remain open over the life of the  report. Annually.
project. (Except for those
impacted by consolidation).
4. Extent to which schools are  4. School management
managed effectively.        study.
5. More focused planning    5. CPCU and provincial
processes adopted.          monitoring reports (sample
(Assessment criteria to be  based survey).
determined).
6. Teacher/student and      6. Province and district
teacher/school ratios move  statistics. Annually.
toward the district mean.
7. Significant improvements in  7. NEM data.
NEM scores between first and
fifth year of project.
8. 10% increase from base line  8. Test scores from Impact
in student test scores over the    Evaluation. Baseline in year
life of the project.        one, mid-term and end of
project.
Project Development                                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
I. To mitigate the effect of the  I. Block grants used according  I. Independent monitoring    1. A worsening economic
economic crisis on basic    to guidelines. (75% in year 1;  report (sample-based     situation forces large
education enrollment and    80% in year 2; 85% in        surveys). Annually.        numbers of children out of
operation of primary and junior  subsequent years.)                                 schools.
secondary schools.
2. To support recovery and  2. Percentage of scholarships   2. Independent monitoring    2. Public expenditure on
return to the medium-term   reaching the poorest students.   report (sample-based    basic education erodes
education strategy of quality    (85% in year 1; 90% in year 2;  surveys). Annually.  during adjustment period.
improvement.                95% in subsequent years.)



19
3. Improved assessment score   3. PCC assessment of district
on each annual plan submitted.  plans. Annually.
(Assessment criteria to be
determined.)
4. School mappings of          4. Provincial assessment of
improved quality (Assessment   district plans.
criteria to be determined.)
5. 100% of all reports         5. CPCU, provincial and
produced on time.              district committee reports.
6. Improved classroom          6. School supervisors and
instruction (Assessment criteria  provincial monitoring reports
to be determined.)            (sample based surveys).
7. Percentage of schools       7. CPCU, provincial and
rehabilitated are done so in   district committee reports.
accordance with technical      Annually.
specifications. (85% in year 1;
90% in year 2; 95% in
subsequent years.)
8. Targeted teacher vacancies   8. CPCU, provincial and
filled in areas with shortages.    district committee reports.
9. 75% of contract teachers    9. Provincial and district
fulfill three year contracts.  committee reports. End of
Project.
10. Private schools (that      10. CPCU, provincial and
received matching grants)      district committee reports.
developed according to plans.
I1. Growth in the number and   11. District committee
quality of community activities  reports.
to support schools.
(Assessment criteria to be
determined.)
12. Number of books and        12. School supervisors and
teaching aids distributed that    provincial monitoring
are used. (Assessment criteria  reports.
to be determined.)
13. 75% of MI and MTs          13. CPCU, PCC and DCC
teachers that undertake formal   monitoring reports.
upgrading complete training by  Annually.
the end of the project.
Outputs:                                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
1. Crisis Relief Activities    1.1 95% of scholarships        1.1 Independent monitoring    1.1 Political will and
delivered to students within 45   report (sample-based       commitment to make
days of receiving funds (60    surveys). Twice a year.      decentralization work is



20
days for remote areas).                                 weak at central, provincial
and district levels.
1.2. Bupati does not take
1.2 95% of block grants      1.2. Independent monitoring  responsibility for the
delivered to schools within 45   report (sample-based   delivery of basic education
days of receiving funds (60  surveys). Twice a year.    in district and does not
days for remote areas).                                 ensure that interagency
cooperation works.
2.1 Number of coordination    2.1 Provincial and district
meetings at district level.  committee reports.
2. Institutional Reform of  (Expressed as a percentage of
Agencies Responsible for    those planned).
Basic Education
2.2 Number of district and   2.2 Provincial and district
sub-district managers trained.   committee reports.
(Expressed as a percentage of
those planned).
2.3 Number of district       2.3 Provincial and district
comparative studies (studi   committee reports.
banding) completed.
(Expressed as a percentage of
those planned.)
3.1 95% of planned training of  3.1 CPCU, PCC and DCC
teachers/school              monitoring reports.
principals/supervisors/library    Annually.
teachers/school committees
takes place as planned.
3. Quality Improvements in    3.2 80% of planned school   3.2 Provincial and district
Primary and Junior Secondary  rehabilitation completed.   committee reports. CPCU
Schools                                                   monitoring reports.
3.3 95% of private school    3.3 Provincial and district
grants issued as planned.    committee reports. CPCU
monitoring reports.
3.4 95% of planned number of  3.4 Provincial and district
teachers contracts issued.   committee reports. CPCU
monitoring reports. Twice a
year.
3.5 95% of planned teachers    3.5 Provincial and district
receiving incentives are     committee reports. CPCU
distributed.                 monitoring reports.
3.6 95% of planned formal    3.6 Provincial and district
upgrading of public and private  committee reports. CPCU
MI and MTs teachers takes    monitoring reports.
place as planned.            Annually.
3.7 90% of planned books and  3.7 Provincial and district
teaching aids delivered to   committee reports. CPCU
schools.                     monitoring reports



21
3.8 100% of gugus grants    3.8 Provincial and district
distributed (within 30 days of   committee reports. CPCU
submission of annual plans).    monitoring reports
Project Activities                                                                 (Components to Outputs)
Component 1
1.1 Scholarships for poor   US$28.2                                                1. Delay in providing
students.                                                                          counterpart funds and in
sufficient amounts.
1.2 School Grants for poor
primary and junior secondary                                                       2 SKB (decree) on
schools                                                                            planning, budgeting and
M&E is not fully accepted
Component 2                                                                        by all agencies as interim
2.1 Developing and adopting a  US$10.1                                             solution and implemented
supporting policy framework                                                        accordingly.
and legislation for
decentralization of basic                                                          3. District medium term
education.                                                                         plan for development of
basic education is of poor
2.2 Developing integrated                                                          quality and not "owned" by
annual plans and budgets for                                                       all agencies involved.
development of basic education
by districts, with active                                                           4. The right staff are not
community involvement, and                                                         sent to the training
based on school maps.                                                              programs.
2.3 Assessing capacity and
needs at district and province
level.
2.4 Building capacity at
provincial and district levels
including: changes in
incentives, technical assistance,
and training.
2.5 Rationalization/
consolidation of primary
schools.
2.6 Establishing a multi-level
monitoring and evaluation
mechanism.
Component 3
3.1 Community-managed       US$39.0
primary school rehabilitation
and maintenance program.
3.2 School-cluster based
teacher training program.



22
3.3 Improved teacher
distribution (selection and
placement, transfers,
incentives, contract teaching)
3.4 Improved school
management (school
autonomy, school principal
selection and training).
3.5 Availability of teaching
and other materials.



23
Annex 2
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Project Description
Initially, the project will focus on crisis-relief activities, until the worst of the economic crisis has
passed, with a gradual return to the pre-crisis agenda, as the economy recovers. (See attachment I to this
Annex). During the first year, the project focus will be as follows:
* support to the junior secondary school scholarship program, covering from 12% to 17% of
the students;
* support to the school grants program for primary and junior secondary schools;
* continue to support the medium-term agenda of institutional reform, to the extent possible.
These reforms may not require large amounts of resources to implement and will lead to a
more efficient and cost-effective delivery of education in the long term.
Starting from the second year, issues of quality in basic education will gradually be introduced:
* community support activities;
teacher training, especially of low-cost in-service training programs, and procurement of
limited teaching materials;
* primary school rehabilitation; and
* programs to improve the distribution of teachers.
Project Component 1 - US$28.2 million (total cost of component including contingencies)
Crisis Relief
The project would support the national scholarship and special assistance fund program, designed to assist
poor students and schools serving poor communities during the economic crisis. The project would
support the program in the three provinces. Scholarships would be provided to about 17% (for Sumatera
Utara), 12% (for Riau) and 15% (for Bengukulu) of the poorest students in junior secondary school, for
the three years of schooling. School grants would be provided to 37% (in SumateraUtara), 28% (in Riau)
and 33% (in Bengkulu) of the primary junior secondary schools serving the poorest communities.
Identification and selection of the schools would be done according to the criteria established for the
overall program and in accordance with the agreements with the World Bank and the ADB and as
described in Annex 4.
The program is based on a set of principles that have been agreed between the Government, the Bank and
the ADB. These principles will guide the implementation of the program.
*  scholarships would be provided to poor students and families;
*  special assistance funds would be provided to schools serving poor communities
*  funds would be available by the beginning of the new school year;
*  the Program should be implemented with the lowest overhead possible;
*  the Program should be financially sustainable, bearing in mind the competition with other
poverty programs and shrinking budgets;



24
*  scholarships and special assistance funds should be entirely in the form of money and no part of
it should be in kind;
*  scholarships and special assistance funds should flow directly from the center to the recipient by
the most direct route possible;
*  the Program should be as simple as possible, to be easily understood by everyone and be easily
explained in a media campaign; and
*  the Program must be monitored judiciously.
The program is supported by an intensive and repeated training effort of head teachers and provincial and
district officials, to ensure knowledge of the scheme and of the procedures; by a national media campaign,
to ensure that parents are aware of the program and do not withdraw their children out of ignorance, and
by a monitoring and evaluation program. The project would also partly support these costs. Items
eligible for financing under the school grants are specified in Annex 6.
Project Component 2 - US$ 10.1 million (total cost of component excluding contingencies)
Institutional Reform
Districts, subdistricts and schools should be able to manage their responsibilities for delivery of basic
education more skillfully. This means: (i) being able to plan more effectively the education activities
within their district; (ii) manage the education program in an integrated way between the different
agencies; (iii) be skilled in and use appropriate techniques for planning and implementation; (iv) assign
staff according to needs and skills, transfer if required, and retrain if needed; and (v) carry out targeted
activities, involving communities, to make them more aware and participating in school affairs.
Some project activities will be implemented by all districts; they are: (i) based on school mapping,
development of a multi-year plan of school rationalization and consolidation in each district, that would
result in a better organization of staff and functions, including needed staff transfers; and (ii) capacity
assessment of staff at district level in the offices of MOEC, MOHA, MORA and Bappeda, with an
evaluation of training requirements and determination of staff reallocation between agencies with a view
of strengthening local government.
Some project activities will be implemented, as needed by the districts and will be financed upon
approval of satisfactory proposals: (i) District-level training proposals, based on annual budgets. The
training proposals would be presented for the district as a whole, in an integrated way. (ii) District-level
support for project planning and implementation, if required, to strengthen the districts in those areas
where they are weak. Technical assistance would be available, if needed, but would not automatically be
assigned. (iii) Activities to support and instigate community participation, in the form of awareness
raising meetings and workshops, and seed support to start new initiatives that bring schools and
communities together.
This component would also include support for project management and implementation of the integrated
plans and would support the establishment and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system,
operating at district, province and central levels. This M & E system would be implemented for all basic
education projects, to be adapted to the provincial situation as needed. Each of the basic education
projects would support implementation in their own provinces and would carry a portion of the central
cost.
For the districts that are already well advanced and have shown a substantial degree of capability during
the preparation of the project, capacity assessment can start immediately at project implementation;
districts with less capabilities will be provided with technical assistance to carry out the assessment;



25
districts that have not yet started with project preparation will be provided with the necessary resources
(including technical assistance) during the first and second year of the project.
Project Component 3 - US$39.0 million (total cost of component including contingencies)
Quality Improvements
Each district provides a proposal for implementation during the project reflecting district needs. The
proposals will contain quality improvement components, depending upon the needs of the district and the
existing capacity. It is expected that in districts where capacity building has to happen first, the quality
components will be carried out in the later years. In addition, in all districts, quality components will be
significantly reduced or postponed until at the earliest the third year of the project, due to the economic
crisis and budget constraints.
Districts will select quality components from a positive list, in the amount and mix needed depending
upon the conditions of the district. The full list of activities for financing is: (i) primary school
rehabilitation and maintenance, with funds given to the community to manage the school improvement,
including procurement of basic school furniture; (ii) teacher-training programs for primary and junior
secondary education teachers, principals, library teachers and supervisors including special programs for
remote areas; (iii) procurement and distribution of teaching and learning materials and equipment; (iv)
teacher deployment in rural, remote areas through teacher incentives to teach in remote areas and hiring
of contract teachers for rural schools; (v) support to private schools through provision of matching grants
for rehabilitation of school buildings and provision of equipment and furniture; and (vi) upgrading of
religious school teachers.
Districts can submit for quality improvement, packages of interventions in a coherent proposal. Proposals
must present a balance between primary and junior secondary schools, and must include school mapping
and school consolidation as a prerequisite.
For primary schools the school quality improvement activities are based on the lessons of the Primary
Education Quality Improvement Project. For junior secondary schools, they are in keeping with the
activities as carried out in the ongoing JSE projects. It is expected that very few quality improvement
activities will be carried out during the first two years of project implementation. During this crisis
period, the emphasis for financing will be on ensuring that children remain in school and that schools can
continue to operate. The quality improvement component, as a result, will be minimal during these years,
and be focussed on providing low-cost teacher training only.
The project would also support and further improve private junior secondary schools. While these schools
are numerous especially in the rural areas, they are often of poor quality and, serving the poorest, many of
them are underfunded. The project would provide matching grants to these schools, which they would
use for needed quality improvements, which could range from construction and rehabilitation, to hiring of
extra teachers, school materials, or participation in teacher training programs.
At the national level, the project would support the establishment of a national-level Policy Reform
Working Group on Teachers to evaluate current teacher workforce issues and propose alternatives.



Project Components/Activities by Year
Year I (FYOO)                Year 2 (FY0i)                 Year 3 (FY02)                 Year 4 (FY03)                 Year 5 (FY04)
COMPONENT               ____.
CRISIS RELIEF                JS Scholarships (17%)                      >                    --    -- >               JS Scholarships (11%)         JS Scholarships (5°%)
Primary SAFs (40%)            -      ----- >                  --------->                       -------- >                   .        >
JS SAFs (40%/6)                      ..   >                     -        >                   ------   >                             >
Training of principals, district  , -.     >                  --- --- >                       ---    .>                             >
officials, others on use of
Sch/SAFs
Monitoring                         ---- - >                 ------->                    __ - --->                      _
INSTITUTIONAL                School mapping                       __-:----> - ----- ->                                 _       _---->               .        _     >
REFORM
Multi-year planning and       -- - ----- -                       ___._                    __      ---.                   - --- -_--- >
budgeting
Institutional/ capacity            .--- >                       _- ------>                       ------>
assessments
Technical assistance              -    --- -               ---------- >
Project Implementation                                                                  --- - -- - _ ---- >             - ----.>  - _  >
Monitoring & Evaluation
(small surveys, support      - - - --------                     --     .>                   --------- >
SUSENAS, etc.)
District-level training                                                                        - -->  _----->    ----  >
Community-support activities         __- ------                  ---->  -               -      ---   >
QUALITY                      Primary school consolidation  -   -        >                - -------------.>            -------_                      --      - --  .  .     -->
ENHANCEMENT
Redeployment of teachers/    _-__----->                    _ _  _.---^>
principals
Contract teachers                                                                        - - ------_----->  _ _- _---.>>
Primary school rehabilitation/  ___---.>                    __-_--->
fumiture
Teacher Training
Principal & supervisor
training                     - __>
Provision of teaching/learning  --___ ___>
materials & equipment
Private School Grants                    > _>



27
Annex 3
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Estimated Project Costs
Summary by Project Component                        Local            Foreign        Total
US $ million----
1. Crisis Relief                                       26.9              0.7           27.6
2. Institutional Reform                                  8.6              1.2           9.8
3. Quality Improvement                                  34.5             3.5           38.0
4. Project Management                                    5.6              .8            6.4
Total Baseline Cost                                     75.6             6.2           81.8
Physical Contingencies                                1.75             .2             1.95
Fee                                               .55             -                .55
Total Project Cost                                       77.9              6.4           84.3
Summary by Category of Expenditure
Local            Foreign         Total
------USS million-
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                   7.7               0.8            8.5
Subtotal Civil Works                             7.7               0.8            8.5
B. Goods
1. Education Materials                     6.6               1.2             7.8
2. Equipment and Fumiture                  0.4               0.7             1.1
Subtotal Goods                                   7.0               1.9            8.9
C. Services
1. Training                                18.1              2.0            20.1
2. Fellowships                             0.5               0.1             0.6
3. Contract Teachers                       2.2                -              2.2
4. Consultant Services                     4.8               0.5             5.3
Subtotal Services                               25.6               2.6           28.2
D. Miscellaneous
1. Secondary School Scholarships           14.0               -             14.0
2. Primary School Grants                   7.3                -              7.3
3. Secondary School Grants                 3.8                -              3.8
4. Private School Grants                   2.9                -              2.9
5. Project Management                      7.3               0.9             8.2
Subtotal Miscellaneous                          35.3               0.9           36.2
Total Baseline Costs                              75.6               6.2           81.8
Contingencies                                      1.75              0.2            1.95
Fee (1% of loan amount)                             .55               -              .55
Total Project Costs                               77.9               6.4            84.3



28
Annex 4
Sumatera Basic Education project
Economic Analysis
In the last year, the economic situation in Indonesia has changed rapidly. After a long period of strong
economic growth, the economy is on the brink of collapse with a declining GDP of about 8.5% in the first
quarter of 1998 and an expected reduction of about 7.5% in the second quarter (World Bank, 1998). The
projected growth rates are -12, 0 and 3 percent for FY98/99, FY99/00 and FYOO/01 respectively and
inflation is projected at 80, 20 and 7 percent for the same years (Table 1).
Table 1: Macroeconomic Framework
Fiscal Year           96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01
Growth Rate            7.8      1.0      -12       0.0      3.0
Inflation                       25        80       20       7.0
Government
Expenditure/GDP (%)    13.9     16.7     24.2     18.0      17.0
Source: World Bank, 1998
The impact of the economic crisis on educational outcomes is twofold. The first is the reduced ability of
schools, especially those in poor areas to function as a result of reduced government budgets and parental
contributions. The second is declining enrollments as household incomes decline and many households
will no longer be able to afford school expenditures.
In an effort to prevent the erosion of human resource gains which Indonesia has enjoyed over the past
few years, GOI and the donor community have initiated a national scholarship and school grants program.
This project, as part of the larger initiative, will support both these interventions. In addition, longer-term
goals have to be sustained but interventions to address them need to be judiciously phased in. With these
issues in mind, the economic analysis focuses the following:
I.      Economics of scholarships and school grants;
II.     Cost-Benefit of quality;
III.    Cost-effectiveness;
IV.    Fiscal analysis (Annex 5)
I.   ECONOMICS OF SCHOLARSHIPS AND SCHOOL GRANTS
Introduction.   Indonesia's economic crisis is expected to severely impact the poor as a result of
reduced incomes, increasing prices, and higher unemployment and underemployment. The poors' ability
to invest in human capital will be impaired as parents face higher prices of schooling and lower incomes
to pay for schooling. In addition, schools serving poor communities will no longer be able to provide
even a basic quality of education as public funding is reduced and income from parents and the
communities dwindles. As has happened during the past economic downturn in Indonesia a decade ago,
the combined effect of reduced public funding for education, higher prices of schooling, and lower family
incomes, is expected to be a decline in primary and junior secondary school enrollments among the poor.
Experience from Latin American countries during the 1980s and 1990s shows that not immediately
maintaining support for core education services risks irreversible losses in human capital in the long run.
In order not to jeopardize its long-term investment in human capital, the Government has rapidly
launched a five-year national program to provide scholarships for poor children in basic education and



29
block grants to schools serving poor communities starting this school year (July 20). A coalition of
Ministers, consisting of the Ministers for Education and Culture, Religious Affairs, Population, Home
Affairs and The National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), and led by the Coordinating
Minister for Social Welfare, has been formned to support the program. GOI requested the Bank to lead a
multi-donor effort, including the Asian Development Bank (ADB), UNICEF and bilateral agencies --
AusAID, and Asia Europe Meeting (ASEM) -- to support the Program. Total cost of the five-year
program is approximately US$ 382 million, with an ADB contribution of US$ 86 million, and the
remaining from the Bank. Bank financing is provided partly from restructuring of current education
projects (US$ 177.2 million) and partly from Basic Education projects under preparation for FY99
(US$119.1 million) including this project.
Impact of the Crisis. Estimating the impact of the economic crisis on enrollment is a complex matter as
the crisis is unprecedented in terms of magnitude and depth. Different methodologies have been used to
estimate the likely changes in school enrollments as a result of a fall in income. Results vary
considerably. Econometric techniques have yielded relatively low impact effects ranging from an
additional 115,000-260,000 7-12 year olds, and 173,000-270,000 13-15 year old children dropping out
over time as a result of a 10 percent fall in per capita income.1 Estimates from GOI (Table 2) point to
much larger effects of an additional 890,000 and 640,000 children dropping out of primary and junior
secondary schools, respectively in just one year.
Table 2: Estimated Impact of the Crisis on School Enrollment (without intervention)
Change 97/98 to 98/99
1996/97          1997/98          1998/99      Absolute
Primary
Enrollment (millions)  29.24        29.27           28.99        -0.28
Drop outs (millions)  0.88          0.76             1.65         0.89
Drop out rate     3.0%              2.6%            5.7%          3.1
Junior Secondary
Enrollment (millions)  9.28         9.69            8.33         -1.36
Drop outs (millions)   0.30         0.47             1.11         0.64
Drop out rate     3.6%              5.1%             11.5%        6.4
Source: DIKMENUM, MOEC, 1998
While it may not be possible to reach closure on precise figures, there is agreement among policy-makers,
donors, teachers, principals, parents, NGOs and other stakeholders that the impact of the crisis on poor
children will be severe. The strongest evidence available comes from the well documented experience of
the impact of a much smaller economic shock in 1986/87 than today where education expenditures were
not maintained and special efforts were not made to keep children in school. During that period, gross
enrollment rates fell precipitously from 62% to 52% at the junior secondary level (Figure 1), and it took
almost a decade for enrollment to regain its previous levels. Income data from SUSENAS confirms that
all the decline was due to the drop out of children from poor households (Figure 2).
I The models estimate the elasticity of enrollment with respect to per capita income (or its proxy, per capita
consumption) using 1996 SUSENAS (Filmer, Pradhan, 1998)



30
Figure 1
Primary and Junior Secondary Gross Enrollment Rates, 1971-1995/96
120.0
100.0
_  80.0
o                                               -*-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary
°60.0                            _--A,  Junior Secondary
40.0
200
20.0
N   N 0 N   N       E N f   w   E0   (  0 N        O 0
0)  0)  0)  0)  ~ w   w co             9Ž  9Ž0)
0)
Source: Indonesia Suggested Priorities for Education, World Bank, August 1997
Figure 2
Changes in Net Junior Secondary Enrollment Rates by Income Decile
betweeen 1987 and 1989
1 0
6
4
2
U    6       7       8        9      10
Income Decile
Source: Staff calculations from SUSENAS 1987 and 1989
Focus group discussions and school visits conducted in April 1998 (when the crisis was in its sixth
months approximately) indicate that already poor schools and children were feeling the impact of the
crisis (see: Frame-work for an Assessment of the Impact of the Economic Crisis on Demand for Basic
Education, D. Filmer). Most principals reported more parents having difficulties paying the parent
association fees (BP3) on time or at all; student absences were higher this year than last; some students
appeared to be eating less in the morning; students were reported having more problems purchasing
required books; and some reported lateness of teachers as they switched to cheaper but slower and less
reliable forms of transport.



31
Financing options. Various options were considered to maintain access to basic education for
those children expected to be adversely affected by the economic crisis. These include vouchers
stipends/scholarships, or targeted grants (which can be per capita, matching, etc.). Vouchers and
scholarships, given directly to students, are intended to offset the costs of schooling (books, tuition,
transport, fees, uniforms, etc.). In some countries, they have also been used to compensate families for
the loss of the child's labor (opportunity cost). This mechanism has been effective in other countries in
enabling disadvantaged groups such as the poor, girls and rural children to attend school (Demand Side
Financing, World Bank 1997). Cross-country experience indicates that scholarships can be an effective
means of enabling the poor to attend school while school grants are more effective for increasing school
participation and autonomy.
For this program, block grants to schools have been chosen as the preferred option to maintain enrollment
at the primary level, while at the junior secondary level, a combination of scholarships and school grants
have been selected. A scholarship program for primary students was rejected since the scale of such a
program would quickly become too unwieldy to manage, implement and monitor. Instead, schools are
given guidelines that include allocating a certain proportion of the block grant to defray the costs of
education for those who cannot afford it, thereby promoting the school's autonomy and flexibility to find
local solutions.
Complementing the scholarship and block grants program is a nationwide TV, radio, and print media
campaign to ensure that parents and communities are aware of the program and to facilitate transparency
in the use of funds and selection of recipients.
Estimated Costs. Table in Attachment 1 provides the cost of the full five-year US $382 million
program. Annually, the cost of the program is equivalent to approximately 24% of the 1998/99 basic
education development budget.
Given the difficulty in estimating needs accurately, projections in increases in poverty rates were used as
the basis for estimating the number of students needing scholarships. Recent estimates of poverty
increases indicate that if real GDP declined in 1998 by 12%, the incidence of poverty could increase to
about 14% with that in rural areas reaching 17% (Indonesia in Crisis: A Macroeconomic Update, World
Bank, 1998). Hence, approximately 17% (nationally) of junior secondary students will be awarded
scholarships in the first three years, and 11 % and 5% in the fourth and fifth years of the program,
respectively. Scholarships will be distributed according to the poverty incidence of each district (see
Selection and Targeting). Each student will receive a scholarship of Rp 240,000 (US$ 30 equivalent) in
voucher form at the beginning of the school year. This is intended to cover school costs such as
notebooks, uniforms, transportation costs, and school fees. Nationally, 2.6 million junior secondary
students will receive scholarships.
For primary block grants, Rp 2 million (US$ 250 equivalent) will be provided per school per year to 41%
of all primary schools serving the poorest communities. Forjunior secondary schools, Rp 4 million (US$
500 equivalent) will be provided per school per year to 40% of all junior secondary schools serving the
poorest communities. In total, 82,000 primary and junior secondary schools will benefit from block
grants per year.
Unit costs of the scholarships are derived from cost of schooling for households in the poorest quintile
from SUSENAS 95 (Rp 93,000) inflated to current prices.



32
Cost of junior secondary education by category and quintile
Quintile  school fees (incl equipment and  transportation others    total
BP3)           supplies       and tutors
I (poor)  38,166        28,913          12,284        12,779     92,142
2        44,339          35,417         16,442        18,180     114,378
3        51,931          39,870         32,597        24,307     148,706
4        65,505          48,534         46,493        28,272     188,804
5 (rich)   114,849       61,352         98,130        39,251     313,582
Susenas 95
Unit costs for block grants to schools are roughly based on estimates of BP3 payments per student that
school received before the crisis.
Project Beneficiaries. Table 3 provides the total number of scholarship and grant beneficiaries in the
three project provinces. Due to its higher poverty rate, Sumatra Utara receives a higher proportion of
scholarships and grants.
Table 3: Numbers of Recipients and % of total (JS Students or Schools)
_1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2&02/02   1999/00 1 2000/01  2001/02  2002/02
Sumatra Utara
JS scholarships  116952  116952  77966  38989    16.6%    16.6%       11.1%    5.5%
JS grants           873    873    873    873    34.9%/o   34.9%       34.9%   34.9%
PS grants          3919   3919   3919   3919    37.4%    37.4%        37.4%   37.4%
Riau
JS scholarships   26081   26081   17387   8695    12.3%    12.3%       8.2%    4.1%
JS grants           262    262    262    262    30.8%    30.8%        30.8%   30.8%
PS grants          1103   1103   1103   1103    29.5%    29.5%        29.5%   29.5%
Bengkulu
JS scholarships   12526   12526   8350   4176    15.4%    15.4%       10.2%    5.1%
JS grants            84      84     84      84    37.3%    37.3%      37.3%   37.3%
PS grants           521    521    521    521    36.3%    36.3%        36.3%   36.3%
Total
JS scholarships    155559  155559  103703  51860
PS/JS grants       6762   6762   6762   6762
Selection and Targeting. Two main sources of data are available in Indonesia for poverty targeting both
of which are useful for targeting of the scholarship and school grants program but which cannot be relied
on solely. The SUSENAS (socioeconomic household-level survey) which collects a large number of
welfare indicators including education variables (enrollments, household expenditure, etc.) is not
representative at the sub-district level, and therefore can be used to provide a ranking of districts only by
poverty incidence. The PODES (village census) collects a range of data on physical, environmental,
social and economic infrastructure of every village in Indonesia. The selection of poor villages (IDT
villages) from the PODES is based on a score of variables which are biased towards infrastructure
availability. IDT villages are selected from the poorest third villages in each district with no harmonizing
across districts. Hence, the lowest third in a rich district may be better off than the top third in a very poor
district.
Given these considerations, the approach underlying the targeting mechanism selected for the scholarship
and school grants is one which uses quantitative information coupled with local knowledge and the
participation of NGOs and other members of civil society in the selection at the local level. More
specifically:



33
Nationally, the poorest 17% of JS students will be awarded scholarships and the poorest 40% primary and
junior secondary schools will receive block grants. District (and city) allocation of available scholarships
and grants have been determined on the basis of poverty incidences from the 1996 SUSENAS. Within
each district, a District Project Committee (DPCs) with equal representation from civil society and
government, will (i) allocate a scholarship quota to each junior secondary school; (ii) determine which
schools will receive a grant; and (iii) allocate a proportion of the district's primary school grants to each
sub-district. A similarly composed sub-district committee will identify those primary schools that will
receive grants. Forjunior secondary scholarships, at each school, a school committee, chaired by the
head teacher and consisting of teachers, community members and students will identify those students
which will receive scholarships.
Scholarships: DPCs will rank all JS schools in the district based on four indicators; (i) the poverty of the
community served by the school (as measured by PODES/SUSENAS data), (ii) the percentage of poor
households in the community served by the school; (iii) the average per child parent-teacher contribution
received during the 1996/97 year, and (iv) the physical condition of the school. Based in this ranking, the
poorest 50% of the schools will share 75% of the available scholarships and the remaining 50% of
schools will share the remaining 25% of the scholarships. This is to account for the issue that even rich
schools have some poor students attending. In each case, the scholarships will be proportionally
distributed among schools on the basis of their 1996/97 enrollment (pre-crisis). School committees will
subsequently distribute scholarships to those students that have already, or are most likely to drop out of
school for economic reasons, and to those primary school leavers who would otherwise continue their
schooling but will not do so for financial reasons. At least half of the recipients will be girls.
JS Grants: Using the same four indicators above, the DPCs will rank all JS schools in the district,
excluding only those schools that are considered unviable (based on enrollment, location, and registration
criteria). Based on the DPC's ranking of all JS schools, the poorest schools in each district will be
awarded the available grants.
Primary School Grants: In each district, the DPC will proportionally distribute all available grants to the
sub-districts based on the percentage of IDT villages in each sub-district. Subsequently, the poorest 50%
of the sub-districts will share 65% of available grants and the remaining 50% will share 35% of the
grants. The grants will be proportionally distributed among sub-districts based on the number of schools
in each sub-district. Each sub-district committee will subsequently rank all primary schools in the sub-
district according to the indicators listed above. Based on the sub-district committees' rankings of all
primary schools, the poorest schools in each sub-district will be awarded the available grants.
Monitoring and Evaluation. A comprehensive monitoring, evaluation and supervision program is being
developed for management of scholarships and school grants. While the Government will monitor the
day-to-day operation of the program, a third-party agency will carry out quarterly monitoring of the
selection and targeting process, and the use of funds. Representatives from civil society and NGOs will
be utilized in the monitoring of the program. In addition, a database will be maintained by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia to track all aspects of flow of funds. Throughout the program, the Government, the Bank, and
the ADB will evaluate the impact of the program on school enrollments and transition through focused
surveys and the use of SUSENAS.
Returns to a Junior Secondary Scholarship
Providing a scholarship of Rp240,000 per year for a junior secondary student yields a high return as the
estimation below demonstrates:



34
We assume that an additional year of junior secondary education yields a productivity gain of 10 percent.2
At an annual total income/product of $700 per capita in Indonesia, a 10 percent gain produces $70/year.
The present value of this amount, over a 30 year time period of lifetime production, is $602 (discount rate
of 10%). When compared to the cost today of a scholarship per child of Rp3 00,000 (Rp240,000 plus 25%
administration/training cost), or US$38 (exchange rate of Rp8,000), it is clear that the investment is
worthwhile.
In the table below we present the above PV calculation (Column 1) and repeat it varying some of the
assumptions. In Column 2, we assume the exchange rate improves to Rp2000. In Column 3, we assume
the economy takes another nose-dive and annual income falls to $400 and the exchange rate weakens to
RplO,000. In all cases, the return from today's investment in a junior secondary scholarship is remains
profitable.
Annual per capita income ($)                         700           700          400
Income equivalent increase in annual
productivity ($)                                      70            70           40
Present value of income increase ($)                 602           602          344
Annual cost of scholarship/student (Rp) 2/2      300,000        300,000     300,000
Annual cost of scholarship/student ($)                38            150          30
PV/cost of scholarship                               16              4           12
Assumptions:
Discount rate (/o)                                    10            10           10
Exchange rate (IUS$/Rp)                             8000          2000       10,000
time horizon (years)                                  30            30           30
1/ The PV formula is corrected for the fact that the impact will be one year later (i.e. after the additional year of
schooling).
2/ includes 25% administration and training cost.
I.  COST-BENEFIT OF QUALITY
Introduction. Low quality basic education has been identified as one of the main problems faced by the
education system in Indonesia (Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998). This is
reflected in unsatisfactory schooling outcomes (high drop-out and repetition), low levels of skills and
inadequate preparation for post-basic education and a lifetime of learning and employment that many
graduates possess. Evidence3 indicates that the main (non-institutional) factors precipitating this problem
are poorly trained teachers, the lack of adequate levels of resources, curriculum overload, shortage of
teaching staff, and an inadequate supply of text-books and materials, among others. As part of the overall
quality enhancement program of basic education, this project, as well as the West Java and Sulawesi and
Eastern Islands Basic Education projects, includes large quality components that aim to address some of
these issues. In North Sumatra, Bengkulu and Riau the quality component is the single largest component
making up about 48 and 59 percent of province project costs, respectively. The specific interventions
2 Rates of return studies for Indonesia have shown returns to junior secondary even higher than 10%. Further we
can assume there are other non-wage benefits such as better health, productivity gains in home production, etc.).
3 Studies by Moegiadi, Suryadi, Somerset, Malo et al, World Bank 1989, and others.



35
include school rehabilitation, provision of contract teachers, provision of educational materials, cluster
in-service teacher training, matching grants to private schools, and incentives to teachers in remote areas.
The Reverse Cost-Benefit Method--Estimating Switching Values. To calculate the returns to the
quality component we employ the use of the reverse switching method. This method determines the
feasibility of an intervention based on a comparison of the cost of the intervention with the minimal
productivity differential required to make the intervention profitable to society. It asks: Given the cost of
producing a higher quality graduate, what productivity differential is required to make the investment in
quality profitable to society? The required differential is estimated according to the following equation4:
D./,-, =F (t (Cs +Ws)
where
D ,- = the required productivity differential between a graduate of school
level S and a graduate of school level S-1
F  =   discount rate
t, =   number of year required to complete level
C, =  per student direct resource cost (government cost and household
expenditure)
Ws = earning forgone during each year of investment.
A discount rate of 10 percent is assumed. The methodology uses both the direct costs to the government
and households, and the costs to the individual in the form of opportunity cost of schooling (i.e. foregone
wages).
Data. The analysis utilizes data from Labor Force Surveys (1994 and 1996 SAKERNAS), household
socio-economic survey (1995 SUSENAS) and budget data. The SAKERNAS details information
pertaining to sector and occupation of employment, wages and number of hours worked in addition to
general demographic information. The labor force data is used to impute the average weekly wages for
individuals who have not completed primary school, primary school graduates and junior secondary
graduates in various employment sectors. The surveys sort employment into 10 main sectors (Table 4).
A descriptive analysis of employment by sector and level of education indicates that primary school
graduates are mainly employed in the agriculture sector (Table 4). At the junior secondary level, there is
some movement out of agriculture into other sectors such as trade and manufacturing. More than 60
percent of primary graduates and 50 percent of junior secondary graduates are employed in agriculture
and 37 percent of junior secondary graduates are employed in trade, services and manufacturing. It is
only at the senior secondary level that employment beyond agriculture begins to increase significantly.
4Adopted from Vietnam, Education Financing, 1997.



36
Table 4: Sector of EmpTloyment by Level of Education
Sector               Primary       Junior         Senior
Secondary      Secondary
Agriculture                         62            50             28
Mining and quarry                    1             1              I
Manufacturing                       11            13             12
Electric , Gas and Water            < 1           <1             <1
Construction                         5            5              4
Trade                               13            15             14
Transportation, Storage and          4            6              4
Communication
Finance, and other services         <1            <1              1
Services                             4            9              36
Others                              <1            <1             <1
Total                               100           100           100
Source: Sakernas 1996
The data necessary to estimate D s,s- is wage data for graduates at three levels: incomplete primary,
primary graduates and junior secondary graduates. Wage data was obtained through the estimation of a
basic OLS using the 1994 Sakemas. The sample included individuals between the ages of 14 and 65.
Wages for three groups of agricultural workers and junior secondary graduates employed in the non-
agriculture sector was imputed for each province (Table 5).
Table 5: Imputed Weekly Wages for Agriculture and Non-Agricultural Workers
(1994 Wage data inflated to February 1998 using Farmer Price Index)
Provinces                 Agricultural Wage                  Non
(Rp'OOO)                   Agricultural
Incomplete    Primary       Junior         Junior
Primary                  Secondary   Secondary Level
North Sumatra          22,442       28,438       33,481          45,828
Bengkulu               14,189        19,209      19,672          38,212
Riau                   26,160        28519       33770           60,987
Source: Sakernas 1994, Central Bureau of Statistics, August 1998
* Sample size less than 30
All data was calculated from the Sakernas 1994
Estimation of Returns for Primary Quality Component. We assume that benefits from the quality
component lead to higher student achievemenf which reduces repetition and increases school completion
rates. Hence, the benefits can be measured as the differences in wages for a primary school completer to
a less-than-primary school completer.
Costs per student per year are derived from the total costs of quality interventions (school rehabilitation,
teacher cluster training, and provision of educational materials) averaged across the total population of
primary school students in each province.
5 Evidence of this relationship is available from the impact evaluation of the Indonesia PEQIP project, where
similar quality interventions in 6 provinces led to a positive effect on student achievement (DHV, 1997).



37
Table 6: Reverse Switching Methodology Applied to Primary Quality Component
North Sumatra
Cost per      Average       Assumed         Required      Observed    Observed as
student per    Earnings     treatment period  Differential   Real      percentage
year          (Rp)          (years)          (Rp)         Differential  of required
(Rp)                                                      (Rp)
33,021        1,077,216     ____
1,365,0244    6 years of      127534        287808       226
treatment
1 year of
Opportunity cost
Bengkulu
Cost per      Average       Assumed         Required      Observed    Observed
student per    Earnings    treatment period  Differential   Real       as
year                       (years)                        Differential  percentage
(Rp)                                                                   of required
61,287        681072
922032        6 years of      104880        240960       230
treatment
1 year of
Opportunity cost
Riau
Cost per      Average       Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per    Earnings    treatment period   Differential  Real       percentage
year (Rp)                   (years)                       Differential  of required
49,292        1,255,680
1,368,912    6 years of        144,582      113,232      78
treatment
I year of
Opportunity cost
Note: Household expenditure only includes cost of uniforms, books, transportation and allowance
The analysis suggests that the investment in primary quality in North Sumatra and Bengkulu satisfies the
minimum 10 percent rate of return. However, this is not the case in Riau where the minimum return of 10
percent is not met. The highest return among the three provinces is in Bengkulu where the observed wage
differential is more than twice as large as the required wage differential. In North Sumatra, the return is
just as high, where the observed differential is also twice as large as the required wage differential.
Hence if the primary quality interventions if implemented well and results in higher student completion
the benefits exceed the opportunity cost of schooling and the direct cost of the intervention in North



38
Sumatra and Bengkulu. This is unfortunately not the case in Riau. It is worthwhile to keep in mind that
these estimates of benefits reflect a minimum given the other expected benefits to school rehabilitation,
for example (see Section below).
Estimation of Returns for Junior Secondary Quality Component. The junior secondary quality
interventions differ from the primary component in that it includes contract teachers and excludes school
rehabilitation. The unit costs used in the analysis again reflects the aggregated costs of all the above
interventions averaged across the population ofjunior secondary students in each province. The
household cost added to the analysis includes transportation, allowance, expenditure on uniforms and
equipment and books.
Two scenarios are modeled to examine the benefits of the junior secondary quality component, namely:
(i) an inter-sectoral effect (where the wages of junior secondary graduates who enter a non-agricultural
sector upon graduation are compared against the wages of primary school graduates who enter the
agricultural sector); and (ii) an intra-sectoral effect (where the wages of junior secondary graduates who
enter the agricultural sector are compared against the wages of primary school graduates who enter the
agricultural sector). This analysis takes into account the benefits of increased employment opportunities
in non-agricultural sectors for junior secondary graduates.
Inter-Sectoral Effect
When junior secondary graduates are able to switch out of the agricultural sector, the benefits to a quality
component is rather large. As illustrated in Table 7, in all three provinces, the observed wage differential
is larger than the required differential to satisfies the minimum criteria to achieve a 10 percent return on
the investment. In Riau and Bengkulu, the observed wage differential is three times larger than the
required wage differential while in North Sumatra, the difference is smaller but still satisfies the minimum
10 percent return. Hence, in all three provinces, the quality component does accrue a good return to the
investment.
Table 7: Reverse-Switching Methodology Applied to Junior Secondary Quality Component
North Sumatra
Cost per    Average        Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per Earnings       treatment period  Differential  Real      percentage of
year (Rp)   (Rp)           (years)                       Differential required
98,166     1,365,024       _
2,199,763      3years treatment  445,100     834,739     188
Bengkulu
Cost per    Average        Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per  Earnings      treatment period  Differential  Real      percentage of
year (Rp)   (Rp)           (years)                       Differential required
142,563    922,032                                      _
1,834,199      3 years treatment 332,670     912,167     274



39
Riau
Cost per    Average         Assumed          Required     Observed   Observed as
student per  Earnings       treatment period  Differential  Real      percentage of
year (Rp)   (Rp)            (years)                       Differential required
112,789     1,368,912                       __ _  _                _
2,827,409       3 years treatment 432,064     1,558,497   361
Intra-Sectoral Effect
Remaining in the agricultural sector, however, is not as beneficial for junior secondary graduates. The
wage differential between primary and junior secondary school graduates who enter agriculture is so
small that it is nearly completely offset by the opportunity cost of staying in school for the additional 3
years. This result is the same for both all three provinces where the observed wage differential is only
about a fourth of the required wage differential and therefore does not meet the minimum 10 percent
return on the investment (Table 8).
Table 8: Reverse-Switching Methodology Applied to Junior Secondary Quality Component
North Sumatra
Cost per    Average          Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per  Earnings       treatment period  Differential  Real       percentage of
year       (Rp)              (years)                       Differential required
(R p)__                         _ _  _ _ _ __                _ _ _  _  __ _ _  _ _  _
98,166      1,365,024
___________  1,607,088       3years treatment  445,100      242,064     54
Bengkulu
Cost per    Average          Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per  Earnings       treatment period  Differential  Real       percentage of
year       (Rp)              (years)                       Differential required
(Rp)_ _ _ _                                                          _
142,563    922,032
1,027,200       3 years treatment 332,670      105,168     32
Riau
Cost per    Average          Assumed          Required     Observed    Observed as
student per  Earnings       treatment period  Differential  Real       percentage of
year       (Rp)              (years)                       Differential required
(Rp )
112,789     1,368,912
1,620,960       3 years treatment 432,064      252,048     58



40
Comparing the inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral results indicate that unless junior secondary graduates are able to
move out of agriculture, the returns to the investment in junior secondary quality will not be socially profitable.
While the probability of this move is low during the economic downturn in Indonesia, as the economy resumes
its pre-crisis growth patterns, opportunities for junior secondary graduates in non-agricultural sectors will begin
to expand again.
Conclusion. The reverse-switching method indicates that the benefits of the primary quality
component far exceed the combined effect of the fiscal costs and opportunity cost yielding a social return
of at least 10 percent in both North Sumatra and Bengkulu. However in Riau this was not found to the
case. In the case of the junior secondary quality component, social returns of at least 10 percent can only
be enjoyed if the graduate is able to switch out of the agricultural sector into other sectors.
M.  COST EFFECTIVENESS
Facing extreme budgetary constraints, GOI has to employ cost-effective strategies in its delivery of
education services. This analysis proposes several cost-effective strategies that could be adopted under
the project. The first focuses on the school consolidation process and associated savings. The second
looks at the need for adequate maintenance budgets for schools.
School Consolidation. There are currently (140,000) primary schools in Indonesia. Many of these
schools were built to support large cohorts of children in the late 1970's and throughout the 1980's. As
the fertility rate has stabilized at a lower level, the cohort of school aged children has fallen resulting in
the under utilization or abandonment of many primary school buildings. In an effort to conserve
resources, the project supports a school consolidation program where primary school buildings located
within close proximity to each other (less than 1 km) are consolidated. In some cases, it is feasible to
convert one of the primary school buildings into a junior secondary school. Using the unit construction
costs as present in Table 9 the analysis focuses on the economic benefits or costs that are derived from a
school consolidation program.
Table 9: Cost Of Construction And Rehabilitation In The Project Provinces.
(in thousands of Rp)
Province         Average Cost of  Cost of          Cost of
construction per  constructing a    rehabilitating a
m 2             Primary School   primary school
for conversion
Bengkulu              388             159,152          95,491
Riau                  392             157,528          94,517
North Sumatra         432             175,392          105,235
(Source: Unit cost from BAPPENAS, 1997/98)
The comparison is the cost of consolidation against non-consolidation where:
* there are two primary schools within a I km radius of each other that are consolidated. Thus,
since one building is now vacant, the cost of rehabilitation and maintenance has been halved.
* the two primary schools are not consolidated. Since both buildings are occupied GOI will
have to rehabilitate and maintain both these primary school buildings.



41
The underlying assumptions of the model are: school buildings last for 15 years after which total
reconstruction has to take place, maintenance is about 2 percent of base construction cost and inflation
over the period is normalized to 7 percent.
TablelO: Savings per school over period of 15 years
(in thousands of Rp)
Province             Savings
Bengkulu             143,209
Riau                 142,019
North Sumatra        157,418
The analysis shows that consolidation is extremely cost effective and will accrue to GOI substantial
savings. They are the result of a possible reduction in the total budget required for school rehabilitation
(if schools are consolidated one of the consequences could be a reduction in the number of buildings that
need to be rehabilitated for use) and a reduction in the maintenance budget. On average, GOI can save up
to an estimated Rp160 million per school. In North Sumatra, savings are as high as Rpl 57 per school over
a period of 15 years (See Table 10). Similarly in the Bengkulu and Riau, the government can save up to
Rpl43 and Rpl42 million on each school.
Preventive Maintenance/Rehabilitation.6 If school buildings are to maintain their value and provide
their pupils and teachers with a satisfactory learning and teaching environment, regular school
maintenance is essential. Frequently maintenance budgets are limited.
The construction budgets used by the government for estimating the cost of construction of new or
renovation of existing schools are more than adequate for the construction of good quality facilities if they
are properly built. Unfortunately, because of the generally low standard of construction, the full potential
of the building is never realized. Thus, combined with the fact that very little money is spent on
maintenance, the useful life of most school buildings is very short.
The full cost of maintaining a building against not maintaining a building over a period of 21 years is
examined in the Table below. If this building is well constructed and maintained, it should have a useful
life of at least 20 years and probably much longer. However, if the building is badly constructed and
poorly maintained, its life could be shortened to 10 years and possibly much less. To illustrate this point,
we use the case of North Sumatra. The initial cost of constructing the building at current rates will be
Rpl 75.4 million in North Sumatra (See table above). If we assume that annual maintenance costs are a
fixed rate of 2 percent of the initial construction cost in the first case, this will result in a maintenance cost
of Rp3.5 million for the first year after construction. In the second case we use a maintenance rate of
about 0.5 percent per annum which allows for approximately Rp867,000 per year per school. This is
comparable to the current allocation that schools currently receive. Both the cost of maintenance and
construction increases at an annual inflation rate of 7 percent
6Adapted from Nigel Wakeham, "Implementation Specialist's Report" (June 1998).



42
Table 12: The Case Of North Sumatra - Cost-Effectiveness Of Maintenance
(in thousands of Rp)
Year        School 1: With Maintenance           School 2: Without Maintenance
1                 175,392  Construction                   175,392  Construction
2                   3,507  Maintenance                        877
3                   3,753  l                                 938
4                   4,016                                   1,004
5                   4,297                                   1,074
6                   4,598                                   1,150
7                   4,920                                   1,229
8                   5,264  l                                1,316
9                   5,633  l                                1,408
10                 6,027                                    1,507
11                  6,449                                 369174  Reconstruction
12                  6,900  1                                1,846
13                  7,383  l                                1,975
14                  7,900  l                                2,113
15                  8,453                                   2,261
16                  9,045                                   2,419
17                  9,678  l                                2,589
18                 10,356  l                                2,770
19                 11,081                                   2,964
20                 12,686  t                                3,171
21                726,221  Reconstruction                 726221  Reconstruction
Total           1,045,419 _     _    _                   1,305,014
The above data indicate that spending higher amounts of money on school maintenance today saves GOI
over Rp200 million per school over the long-term (See Table 12). This implies that on average about 21
percent of funds that would have been spent on construction and maintenance can be saved if GOI
increases the per school maintenance allocation. This is because the cost of construction is high and
buildings that are not well maintained deteriorate rapidly eroding the value of initial construction. An
illustrative example using current construction prices from North Sumatra is present in Table 12. The
total cost of constructing a 4-classroom building primary school, maintaining it regularly and
reconstructing it after 20 years is Rpl.05 billion. The total cost of constructing the same building, but, not
maintaining it resulting in two necessary reconstruction activities after 10 years is Rpl .31 billion,
resulting in savings of Rp259 million per building over a period of 21 years.
Table 13: Savings per primary school over period of 21 years
(in thousands of Rp)
Province              Savings
Bengkulu              271,788
Riau                  273,007
North Sumatra         259,594



43
Attachment 1
Scholarship and School Grants Program
1908199         1999/00         2000/01        2001V02          2002103         Totals
Scholarships
Estimated Junior Sec. Enroilment        9,700,000       9,700,000       9,700,000       9,700,000        9.700,000
Number of scholarships                  1,560,000        1,560,000       1,560,000       1,040,000        520,000
%ofstudentscovered                         16.1%            16.1%           16.1%          10.7%             5.4%
Unit cost (S equivalent)                      30               30              30              30              30
Total Scholarship cost (S million)          46.8             46.8            46.8            31.2            15.S           187.2
Special Assistance Funds (SAF)
for Primary Schools:
Total Number of schools                   173,000         173,000         173,000         173,000         173,000
Schools receiving SAF                      71,207          71,207          71,207          71,207          71,207
%ofschoolscovered                            41%             41%             41%             41%             41%
Unit Cost ($ equivalent)                     250             250              250             250             250
Total SAF Prima,y School (S mfillion)
17.8            17.8            17.8            17.8            17.8             89
Special Assistance Funds (SAF)
for Junior Secondary Schools:
Number of schools                          31,000          31,000          31,000          31,000          31,000
Schools receiving SAF                      12,546          12,546          12,546          12,546          12,546
% of schools covered                         40%             40%             40%             40%             40°b
Unit Cost (Sequivalent)                      500              500             500             500             500
Total SAF Junior Secondary School
(S million)                                   6.3             6.3             6.3             6.3             6.3            31.4
Full Program (S millIon)
Scholarships and SAFs                        70.9            70.9            70.9            55.3            39.7           307.6
Administration, training, and monitoring
(25% of program)                             17.7            17.7            17.7            13.8             9.9            76.9
Total Program Coast rs mliIn)               88.8            88.6t           88.6            69.1            49.6           3U4.5
As percent of 1998/09 Bask
Education Development Budget               27.2%           27.2%           27.2%           21.1%            15.1%
Percent of Total
Funding Sources (S million)
World Bank                                   44.0            45.0            88.6            69.1            49.6           77.1%
From restructuring of existing projects     44.0            29.4            44.6            29.6            29.6          46.1%
From new proposed projects in FY99           0.0            15.6            44.0            39.5            20.0          31.0%
Asian Development Bank                       43.3            43.3                                                          22.5%
UNICEF                                        0.2             0.3                                                           0.1%
Bilateral Agences                             1.1                                                                           0.3%
Totals (S million)                           88.6            88.6            88.6            69.1            49.6          100.0%
NOTES:
US $1 = Rp 8,000
Junior secondary student Scholarships:   3 equal cohorts of scholarships at Rp240,000
Junior secondary school SAFs:    Five years of coverage for 40% of schools at Rp 4 million
Primary school SAFs:             Five years of coverage for 40% ot schools at Rp 2 milion



44
Annex 5
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Fiscal Analysis
The objective of the fiscal analysis is to examine the budgetary implications of the project on the
provincial budget. The fiscal analysis begins at the macro-level, looking at the implications of a
contractionary economy on the budgetary outlook for the education sector with linkages established to the
respective provincial budgets. Drawing on historical data, we begin with the projection of the overall
education budget envelope. We assume that despite falling government revenues, development
expenditure budget for basic education will be maintained in real termns, relative to 1996/97 levels for the
next 2 years at least, after which it would increase. The assumption for maintaining the budget is based
on what was achieved this year in the July program and GOI's commitment to protecting basic education
during the crisis. The assumption for increasing the education budget after the economy recovers is based
on the pre-crisis strategy to increase allocations for education.
Historical Situation
During the last structural adjustment period, the education sector was not protected and experienced a
rapid decline in the education budget by about 12 percent in real terms between 1985/86 and 1989/90.
Similarly, real expenditure for basic (primary and junior secondary) education also declined by 71
between fiscal 1985/86 and 1989/90 with the single largest drop occurring in the second year of the
adjustment when the budget fell as much as 56, from Rp583 billion to Rp258 billion. Education
expenditures as a percentage of GDP fell from 4.13 to 2.74, while the share of Government expenditures
for education fell from 17.6 to 13.
Basic education (primary and junior secondary) expenditures, 1984/85-1996/97
900 
800 
Soo          \
7 00
400 -
400-                 
300-
200
100
0
84185  85186  86187  87188  88t89  89190  90191  91/92  92193  93194  94195  95/96  96/97
Years
Source: Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998 Chapter 6.
Current Situation
The most recent revised budget (July program) shows an allocation of Rp8,800 billion for the education
sector (11 percent of the total development budget). The allocation for basic education amounts to
Rp.4,663 billion which is equivalent to Rp2,000 billion in real FY96/97 terms and represents an
equivalent level of budgetary allocation as in FY96/97.



45
The Model
To estimate the level of provincial budgets for the necessary fiscal years, we use FY95/96 and FY96/97 as
the base. We project two growth paths for the provincial education budget.
In the base case, growth is assumed at 0 percent for the first two years of implications, 2 percent for the
subsequent two years and 4 percent for the last 2 years of the project. For the second model (high case
scenario), growth is projected on a higher path where in the first year the basic education budget will
grow at a rate of 1 percent, followed by 2,4,5 and 6 percent in the subsequent five years. (See Table 1)
Table 1: Real Growth Rate Of Basic Education Budget (%)
FY99/00    FYOO/Ol    FYO1/02    FY02/03    FY03/04    FY04/05
BaseCase        0           0           2            2           4           4
HighCase        1           2           4            5           6           6
The issues of institutional capacity, the provision of counterpart funds and program sustainability are
examined using the following indicators: fiscal burden of project cost on the basic education budget, and
fiscal burden of recurrent cost (of project) on the basic education budget after the project is completed.
We analyze the three provincial budgets for North Sumatra, Bengkulu and Riau.
Fiscal Implications for North Sumatra
North Sumatra is the largest province on the island of Sumatra. The North Sumatra basic education
budget for FY96197 and FY97/98 was RplO7.9 billion and Rp129.5 billion respectively. In FY96/97,
approximately 67 percent of the total provincial education budget was allocated to junior secondary
schools (SLTPs). Primary schools obtained the remaining 32 percent. The following year, the situation
remain the same with a large budgetary allocation for junior secondary schools (63 percent) and a smaller
allocation for primary schools (34 percent).
In the following analysis, we examine the impact of the project on the province.



46
Base Case
Table 2: Fiscal impact of the project in North Sumatra (Rp billion)
98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03       03/04    04/05     05/06
Before    ----------------- Project implementation period --------   After  After
project                        ----                        project   project
GDP Growth rate                       -12        0         3         3         3        4          5
Inflation rate                         80       20         7         7        7         7          7
Growth rate of
provincial basic                    0.0       1.0      2.0       3.0       4.0      5.0       6.0
education budget (%)
Total basic education   203.0    266.1    266.1    271.4    276.8    287.9    299.4    311.4
budget l/
Project costs 2/                   56.0     69.3      77.8      92.3     59.5      24.7
Project recurrent costs 3/          5.6      6.9       7.8       9.2       6.0      2.5      17.3
Project costs / Total               21        26        29       33        21         8
education budget (%)
Project recurrent cost               2         3         3        3         2         1         6
/Total education budget
(%)
1 /Aggregated from provincial budgets of MOEC (education), MORA (religious affairs), MOHA (home affairs). The
same figures are used in the other two scenarios.
2/ Aggregate of all categories of expenditure including price and taxes.
3/Recurrent costs during implementation represents GOI's counterpart funding for project. Recurrent cost after
implementation includes 20 percent of training, scholarships and school grants, and 100 percent of contract teachers.
The analysis shows that the burden of the project on the total education budget for North Sumatra, as it is
in the other 2 provinces is high. It increases from a high of 21 percent to as high as 33 percent over the
period (Table 2). The implication of this finding is that the institutional capacity aspect of the project in
North Sumatra is also of great importance. Technical assistance has to be provided to key government
agencies for implementation purposes.
The second issue is that of recurrent cost implications of the project. During the project period this is
represented by the amount of counterpart funds GOI has to provide. After the project the recurrent
implications are assumed at: 20 percent of selected expenditure including training, scholarships and
school grants, and 1 00 percent of contract teachers after implementation.
The ratio of recurrent costs over total project costs is relatively low and constant over the period (Table
2). It rises to as high as 3.0 percent during the project but not more. Hence, because it is so low,
financing the required counterpart funds should not be a problem.
Upon completion of the project, the recurrent cost to the government represents 6 percent of the total
provincial budget. In both cases, recurrent expenditure is sufficiently low and should be easily financed
during implementation in the form of counterpart funding and absorbed after the completion of the
project.



47
High Case
Table 3: Fiscal impact of the project in North Sumatra (Rp billion)
98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03    03/04    04/05       05/06
Before    ----------------- Project implementation period --------   After  After
project                        ----                       project   project
GDP Growth rate                      -12         0        3         3        3         4         5
Inflation rate                        80        20        7         7        7         7         7
Growth rate of                      1.0      2.0      3.0       4.0      5.0       6.0       7.0
provincial basic
education budget (%/6)
Total basic education   203.0    266.1    271.4    280.0    290.7    305.3    323.6    343.0
budget 1/
Project costs 2/                  56.0      69.3     77.8      92.3     59.5     24.7
Project recurrent costs            5.6       6.9      7.8       9.2      6.0      2.5       17.3
Project costs / Total               21       26        28       32        20        8
education budget (%)
Project recurrent cost               2        3         3        3         2        1          5
/Total education budget
(%0)
1/ 2/ and 3/ please see above
Under the high scenario, where assumptions of real increases in the basic education budget are introduced
as early as FY99/00, the total project cost as a percentage of the basic education budget remains high. It
increases from between 21 and 32 percent in the fourth year of the project (Table 3). In the case of
recurrent costs, since the basic education budget is projected to increase by 5 percent in the period after
the project, absorbing these additional costs will not be difficult.
Fiscal Implicationsfor Bengkulu
The Bengkulu basic education budget for FY96/97 and FY97/98 was Rp24.4 billion and Rp27.7 billion
respectively. Similar to the province of North Sumatra, junior secondary schools received a large
proportion of the budget (59 and 61 percent in FY96/97 and FY97/98 respectively).
The majority of funding was from the APBN budget (70 percent) followed by INPRES (15 percent) and
loan financing (14 percent). The provincial and district budgets financed a very small proportion of the
total education budget. In the following analysis, we examine the impact of the project on the province.



48
Base Case
Table 4: Fiscal impact of the project in Bengkulu (Rp billion)
98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03    03/04    04/05    05/06
Before   ----------------- Project implementation period -----   After    After
project                     -------                     project   project
GDP Growth rate                      -12        0        3         3        3        4        5
Inflation rate                        80       20        7         7        7        7        7
Growth rate of
provincial basic                   0.0      1.0      2.0       3.0      4.0      5.0      6.0
education budget (%)
Total basic education   34.7      51.9     51.9     52.9    54.0       56.1     58.9     62.5
budget "
Project costs 2/                   9.9     13.5     20.4      18.8     11.5
Project recurrent costs            1.0      1.4      2.0       1.9      1.2      3.0      3.0
Project costs / Total              19        26       39       35       21
education budget (%)
Project recurrent cost              2         3        4        3        2         5        5
/Total education budget
(%)
1/ 2/ and 3/ please see above
The analysis shows that the burden of the project on the total education budget for Bengkulu is high. It
increases from 19 percent to as high as 39 percent over the period (Table 4). Thus, the institutional
capacity aspect of the project in Bengkulu is also of great importance. Technical assistance has to be
provided to key government agencies for implementation purposes.
The ratio of recurrent costs over total project costs, however, remains relatively low and constant over the
period. It rises to as high as 4.0 percent during the period but not more. Upon completion of the project,
the recurrent cost to the government represents 5 percent of the total provincial budget. In both cases,
recurrent expenditure is sufficiently low and should be easily financed during implementation in the form
of counterpart funding and absorbed after the completion of the project.



49
High Case
Table 5: Fiscal impact of the project in Bengkulu (Rp billion)
98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03    03/04    04/05    05/06
Before   ----------------- Project implementation period -----   After    After
project                    -------                    project   project
GDPGrowthrate                       -12        0        3        3        3        4        5
Inflation rate                       80       20        7        7        7        7        7
Growth rate of                  1.0        2.0      3.0      4.0      5.0      6.0      7.0
provincial basic
education budget (%)
Total basic education   34.7     51.9    52.9      54.5    56.7      59.5    63.1      67.5
budget "
Projectcosts2/                  9.9      13.5      20.4     18.8     11.5
Project recurrent costs 31      1.0        1.4      2.0      1.9      1.2      3.0     3.0
Project costs / Total           19         26       37       33        19
education budget (%)
Project recurrent cost          2           3        4         3        2        5        4
/Total education budget
(%)
1/ 2/ and 3/ please see above
Under the high scenario, where assumptions of real increases in the basic education budget are introduced
as early as FY99/00, the total project cost as a percentage of the basic education budget remains high. It
increases to as much as 37 percent in the third year of the project (Table 5). In the case of recurrent costs,
since the basic education budget is projected to increase by 6 percent in the period after the project,
absorbing these additional costs will not be difficult.
Fiscal Implicationsfor Riau
The Riau basic education budget for FY96/97 and FY97198 was Rp24.4 billion and Rp27.7 billion
respectively. Unlike the other two provinces, in Riau, primary and junior secondary schools receive
almost equal amounts of the provincial education budget. In FY96/97, 41 percent of the provincial
budget was used to finance primary-school education and 54 percent was allocated for junior secondary
education. In FY97/98, primary education received a larger proportion of the budget (44 percent) while
junior secondary school received 52 percent of the provincial budget. In the following analysis, we
examine the impact of the project on the province.



50
Base Case
Table 6: Fiscal impact of the project in RIAU (Rp billion)
98/99     99/00      00/01     01/02      02/03     03/04    04/05      05/06
Before    ----------------- Project implementation period ------------    After  After
project                                                       project    project.
GDPGrowthrate                          -12         0          3          3        3         4          5
Inflation rate                          80        20          7          7        7         7           7
Growth rate of
provincial basic                 0.0           1.0        2.0        3.0      4.0       5.0        6.0
education budget (%)
Total basic education   88.1     121.8      121.8       124.2     126.7    131.8    137.1    143.9
budget "
Project costs 2/                 17.2       26.2         34.3      44.4      32.5       8.4
Project recurrent costs          1.7           2.6        3.4       4.4       3.3       0.8        7.5
Project costs / Total            14             22        28         35        25        6
education budget (%/6)
Project recurrent cost           1               2         3          4         2         1          5
/Total education budget
(%)
1/ 2/ and 3/ please see above
The analysis shows that the burden of the project on the total education budget for Riau is high. It
increases from 14 percent to as high as 35 percent over the period (Table 6). Thus, the institutional
capacity aspect of the project in Riau is also of great importance. Technical assistance has to be provided
to key government agencies for implementation purposes.
The ratio of recurrent costs over total project costs, however, remains relatively low and constant over the
period. It rises to as high as 4.0 percent during the period but not more. Upon completion of the project,
the recurrent cost to the government represents 5 percent of the total provincial budget. In both cases,
recurrent expenditure is sufficiently low and should be easily financed during implementation in the form
of counterpart funding and absorbed after the completion of the project.



51
High Case
Table 7: Fiscal impact of the project in RIAU (Rp billion)
98/99    99/00    00/01      01/02     02/03     03/04    04/05     05/06
Before   ----------------- Project implementation period ------------   After  After
project                                                    project   project
GDP Growth rate                     -12         0         3          3        3         4         5
Inflation rate                       80        20         7          7        7         7         7
Growth rate of                  1.0         2.0        3.0       4.0      5.0       6.0       7.0
provincial basic
education budget (%)
Total basic education  88.1    121.8    124.2        128.0     133.1    139.7    148.1    157.0
budget "
Project costs 2/                17.2     26.2        34.3       44.4     32.5       8.4
Project recurrent costs 3/      1.7         2.6        3.4       4.4      3.3       0.8      7.5
Project costs / Total           14           21        27        33        23        6
education budget (%)
Project recurrent cost          1             2         3          3        2        1         5
/Total education budget
(%)
1/ 2/ and 3/ please see above
Under the high scenario, where assumptions of real increases in the basic education budget are introduced
as early as FY99/00, the total project cost as a percentage of the basic education budget remains high. It
increases to as much as 33 percent in the fourth year of the project (Table 7). In the case of recurrent
costs, since the basic education budget is projected to increase by 6 percent in the period after the project,
absorbing these additional costs will not be difficult.
Conclusion
The analysis indicates that the issues of program sustainability and the provision of counterpart funds in
all the 3 provinces is not expected to be a significant problem. However, due to the relatively heavy
burden of the project on the provincial budgets, adequate technical assistance to key government agencies
will be of prime importance.



52
Annex 6
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management
Procurement
All procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996 and September 1997. The procurement of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in
the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World BankBorrowers dated January
1997, revised September 1997. Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements under the project,
showing the items, their respective cost estimates and proposed method of procurement while Table B
presents the prior review thresholds.
Table A: Project costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                Total Cost
Expenditure Category              NCB            Other *          (incl. contingencies)
1. Works
Rehabilitation                                         8.7                   8.7
(7.0)                 (7.0)
2. Goods
Equipment and Fumiture                 0.9             0.2                    1.1
(0.8)           (0.1)                 (0.9)
Educational Materials                                  8.0                    8.0
(6.3)                 (6.3)
3. Services
Training and Fellowships                               21.2                  21.2
(17.3)                (17.3)
Services of Contract Teachers                          2.3                   2.3
(2.3                  (2.3)
Consultants' Services                                  5.4                   5.4
(5.4)                 (5.4)
4. Miscellaneous
Secondary School Scholarships                          14.3                  14.3
(14.3)                (14.3)
Primary School Grants**                                7.4                    7.4
(7.4)                 (7.4)
Secondary School Grants**                              3.9                    3.9
(3.9)                 (3.9)
Private School Grants**                                3.0                    3.0
(2.2)                 (2.2)
Project Management                                     8.4                    8.4
(6.7)                 (6.7)
Total                      0.9             83.4                  84.3
(0.8)          (73.8)                (74.6)
* Includes Community participation, procurement of small works, national shopping, direct contracting, Govemment administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank, consultant selection procedures acceptable to the Bank, and service delivery contracting.
** Includes procurement of goods, works and services.



53
Organization and management of Procurement. The procurement plan reflects the
decentralized nature of the project's activities and will be carried by the 28 project districts and by
Sumatera Utara, Riau and Bengkulu provinces throughout the project implementation period. The
institutional arrangements for the project are charted in Attachment 1. Most of the procurement for the
project will be in small contracts. The District Project Implementation Units (DPIUs) in each district will
be in charge of procurement for the activities in the respective districts. Since districts have little or no
experience with procurement under Bank-assisted projects, guidance will be provided by the provincial
Project Implementation Units (PPIUs) in respective provinces, which will be provided with appropriate
technical assistance. The PPIUs will be in charge of procurement for the project-related activities at the
provincial level. Assistance of a specialized nature, such as for selecting and appointing international
consultants, will be provided by CPCU in Jakarta, which is the agency currently implementing all Bank-
financed basic education projects. The staff of the CPCU will be augmented to address the requirements
of this project, in addition to its already existing workload.
In the event of any conflict between the Bank guidelines and Keppres 16/1994 or any other GOI
regulations, the requirement of the Bank guidelines will govern. The Government has waived such
unacceptable procedures in a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement.
Civil Works (US$ 8.8 million equivalent for school rehabilitation, including contingencies).
The work will be small in size and scattered over the 28 districts in the three project provinces.
Rehabilitation works for primary schools including provision of water supply and toilets and repair of
school furniture, will be procured under lumpsum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. The
contracts will be managed by the school committees, established under the project.
Equipment and Furniture (US$ 1.1 million equivalent including contingencies). Procurement
of furniture and office equipment will be carried out by the 28 DPIUs and three PPIUs for their respective
activities. Each package of goods is not expected to exceed US$200,000, but packages valued at
US$50,000 equivalent or more would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Furniture and equipment costing less than US$50,000 per contract would be purchased on the basis of
national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Quotations must be obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers on the basis of a detailed description and quantity of goods, as well as the desired
delivery time and place.
Educational Materials (US$ 8.0 million equivalent including contingencies). This would
consist of books for school libraries, teachers reference books, training materials, charts, maps, and other
teaching aids, including kits for purposes of demonstration. The procurement will be based on item lists
agreed with the Bank and through direct contracting of proprietary items with prior Bank agreement or
through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Quotations must be obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers on the basis of a detailed description and quantity of goods, as well as the desired
delivery time and place.
Training (US$20.5 million equivalent including contingencies) for education managers and
staff, project managers and staff, school principals, supervisors, and teachers will be carried out by
trainers who will receive their own training from consultants who will be hired following procedures set
forth in the Consultant Guidelines (above). The trainers would conduct training activities in accordance
with Government administrative procedures (including those governing staff travel and subsistence



54
allowances, honoraria, provision of consumable materials, and other training-related activities) acceptable
to the Bank and based on the agreed annual work program. Similarly, the training of management and
staff of the district and provincial agencies will be carried out by consultants who will be hired in
accordance with the above Consultant Guidelines and who will conduct training under plans agreed with,
and Government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants' Services (US$ 5.4 million equivalent including contingencies). These contracts
would cover technical assistance for capacity building, training programs, monitoring and evaluation,
project implementation, and impact evaluation studies. Recruitment would follow procedures prescribed
in the above Consultant Guidelines. Letters of invitation and terms of reference for all consultancies and
single source contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank for contracts valued at US$ 100,000
equivalent or more awarded to firms or US$50,000 equivalent or more awarded to individuals. The
consultants would be chosen based on QCBS (Quality- and Cost-Based Selection) procedures. Consulting
assignments valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent will be advertised in Development Business. The
Standard Request for Proposals, including standard contracts, dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998
will be used for all consultant assignments. The short list of consultants for services for field engineer,
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, may consist entirely of national consultants. Table
AI provides the breakdown of consultant contracts.
Contract Teachers (US$ 2.3 million equivalent including contingencies) would be selected in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank, following Government procedures and under contracts
acceptable to the Bank and appointed by the head of district (Bupati/Walikotamadya).
Scholarships (US$ 14.3 million equivalent including contingencies) for secondary school
students will be awarded in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank, following Govemment
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Primary and Secondary School Grants (US$ 11.3 million equivalent including contingencies)
for selected primary and junior secondary schools will be awarded based on the agreed criteria with the
Bank, following Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. Grants are Rp 2 million
per school per year for primary schools and Rp 4 million per school per year for junior secondary schools.
The Grants will cover expenditures for instructional materials (including supplemental reading books,
teachers' guides, library books, reference books, atlases, charts and posters), consumable materials
(including students' notebooks, chalk, pencils, and supplies for practical subjects), minor repairs and
maintenance at schools (including painting and repair of windows, doors, classroom desks and chairs,
roofs, toilets, water drainage and footpaths), provision of public transportation to teachers attending KKG
training, and formal and informal school charges (including new students entry fees and examination
fees). Procurement of goods under the grants would be through national shopping.
Private School Grants (US$ 3.0 million equivalent including contingencies) for selected private
schools for rehabilitation of school buildings, equipment and furniture will be awarded upon submission
of acceptable proposals from private schools, based on agreed criteria with the Bank, following
Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. Grants will be a maximum of Rp 30
million equivalent and the works will be carried out following community participation procedures,
agreed with the Bank. Proposals should be matched with at least 25% of the total cost of the works to be
provided by the community.
Fellowships (US$ 0.5 million equivalent including contingencies) for teachers would be awarded
in accordance with annual plans agreed with the Bank and following Government administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.



55
Project Management (US$ 8.3 million equivalent including contingencies). Support for project
management activities including travel and subsistence allowances, honoraria, office support, meeting
support and provision of consumable materials would be provided in accordance with Government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Table Al: Selection and Hiring of Consultants
Type of Consultant             Hiring     Approximate cost     Assumptions
Method      per Assignment
(US$)
Local
Provincial Level
Institutional Development              QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Project./Education Management          QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Monitoring and Evaluation              QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Construction Consultants               QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Field Engineers                        QCBS               600       4 month contract
Quality - SD/MI Training               QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Quality - SLTP/MT Training             QCBS            14,000       2 year contract
Central Level
Management                             QCBS            28,000       2 year contract
Monitoring and Evaluation              QCBS            28,000       2 year contract
Quality - SD/MI Training               QCBS            28,000       2 year contract
Quality - SLTP/MT Training             QCBS            28,000       2 year contract
Construction                           QCBS            28,000       2 year contract
International
Management and Training                QCBS            240,000      1 year contract
Monitoring and Evaluation              QCBS            240,000      1 year contract
Impact Evaluation                      QCBS            60,000       3 month contract
Prior Review Thresholds
Table B summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and Bank review.
The first contract for civil works and goods in each district in each fiscal year would be subject to
prior review by the Bank whereas all other contracts would be subject to random ex-post review. The
Bank would do random ex-post review of a sample of approximately 10 percent of these contracts. All
terms of reference of consulting firms and consultants, all single-source selection of consultants and
consulting firms, and all consultant contracts costing at or more than US$100,000 for firms and at or more
than US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other consultant
contracts would be subject to random ex-post review. Contracts for fellowships, training, and services of
contract teachers will be subject to random ex-post review.
About 30 percent of all contract awards would be subject to prior review.



56
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                 Contract Value                Procurement                Contracts Subject to
Category                     Threshold                     Method                      Prior Review
1. Works
School rehabilitation        All                           Small Works                  First contract from each district
each year regardless of value
2. Goods
Equipment and furniture      Equal to or more than         NCB                          First contract from each district
US$50,000                                                  each year
Less than US$50,000          National Shopping
Educational materials        All                           National Shopping and/or
Direct contracting           Prior Bank agreement of item
list
3. Services
Training/fellowships         All                           Proposal to include subject,  Prior review of proposal and
types of participants, period of   annual plan
training, cost
Contract teachers            All                           Service delivery contracting  Criteria agreed by the Bank
Consultant contracts for     Equal to or more than         QCBS *                       Prior review
implementation and studies   US$100,000
Consulting services by       Equal to or more than         QCBS*                        Prior revised
individual                   US$50,000
4. Miscellaneous
Scholarships                 All                          National shopping for goods   Criteria agreed by the Bank
Primary and Secondary School   All                         National shopping for goods  Criteria agreed by the Bank
grants                                                     Community participation for  Criteria agreed by the Bank
repairs and maintenance
Private School Grants        All                           National shopping for goods  Criteria agreed by the Bank
Community participation      Criteria agreed by the Bank
Project management                                         Regular government procedures  Criteria agreed by the Bank
* Quality- and Cost-Based Selection method.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$6 million.



57
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Total       Loan         Credit      Credit
Amount in   Amount in   Amount in   Amount in   Financing Percentage
US$     US$ Million     SDR       US$ million
million
(1) Civil works                 6,800,000   5,300,000    1,100,000    1,500,000    80%
(2) Goods                       7,100,000   6,500,000    400,000     600,000    100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 80% of
local expenditures
procured locally
(3)  Training and Fellowships  16,800,000  12,100,000    3,500,000   4,700,000    80%
(4)  Scholarships              14,000,000   8,000,000    4,500,000   6,000,000    100%
(5) Grants:
(a) Primary schools        7,300,000   5,200,000    1,600,000   2,200,000    100%
(b) Junior secondary schools   3,800,000   2,600,000  800,000   1,100,000    100%
(6) Private School Grants       2,200,000   1,700,000     400,000    500,000    100%
(7) Services of Contract Teachers  2,200,000   1,900,000  200,000    300,000    100%
(8) Project Management *        6,600,000   4,500,000   1,500,000   2,100,000    80%
(9) Consultants' services       5,300,000   4,200,000     800,000   1,100,000    100%
(10) Fee                         545,000     545,000                            Fee equal to 1% of the
amount of the Loan
(11) Unallocated                1,955,000   1,955,000
Total            74,600,000  54,500,000   14,800,000   20,100,000
* Includes travel, per diem, honoraria, office equipment and materials, and office support.
Disbursements
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for contracts at or above
US$200,000 for civil works and goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for
individual consultants would be fully documented. Disbursements for all other expenditures,
would be against statements of expenditure, whereby supporting documentation is to be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available to the Bank for review during supervision.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation and disbursement, a Special
Account (SA) in US currency in the amount of US$4.3 million will be established by the
Directorate General (DG) of the Budget at Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The DG Budget will submit applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a



58
monthly basis, or when the account is drawn down to within 20% of the initial deposit, whichever
occurs first. In addition to the supporting documents being kept at the DPIUs/PPIUs, the DG
Budget will also retain copies of the relevant supporting documents against which applications
for disbursements are prepared.
Flow of Funds. The Pimpro/Pimbagpro at the PPIUs/DPIUs will be responsible for
authorizing the project expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets under the existing
government procedures. They will submit their payment requests to their respective MOF
Treasurer (KPKN) who will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit
payees' accounts at the latter's respective banks and to debit the project Special Account. For
expenditures in small amounts and for activities managed by PPIUs/DPIUs themselves
(swakelola), sufficient cash advance funds will be provided by KPKN to the Treasurer of the
PPIUs/DPIUs. Each month or when required earlier, the PPIUs/DPIUs account, based on the
PPIUs/DPIUs reports; the KPKN will request reimbursement from the project Special Account.
Financial Management System
Internal Control System. Existing systems and internal controls at the CPCU and
provincial and district levels will be reviewed to: a) detertnine the extent to which existing
systems and procedures can be used and relied upon, b) determine the extent to which
supplementary systems and procedures will be required, and c) identify the address any shortfalls
in existing systems which may be appropriately addressed within the scope of the project.
Additionally, the result of this review will be used in the design of appropriate systems, including
development of documented procedures for project accounting and reporting at the CPCU,
PIPUs, and DPIUs. The review and the design of financial management systems will be carried
out in accordance with the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting Systems
for World Bank Financed Projects, issued by EAP, and will be completed prior to the
effectiveness of the loan.
The adequacy of staff to carry out the project and adoption of internal controls by the
agencies involved under the project have been reviewed. The limited experience and possibly
inadequate levels of staff skills for carrying out project activities, which has been observed in
some districts agencies, will be addressed before project implementation through: (i) assignment
of skilled staff, operational and financial, to the district agencies concerned from other,
cooperating agencies; (ii) issuance of technical implementation guidelines (Juknis); (iii) provision
of training on project administration and financial management; and (iv) deployment of
consultants who will provide guidance during project implementation.
Each DPIU will have a Pimbagro, Treasurer, Procurement Officer, Financial Officer, and a
small team of technical staff. The provincial PPIUs and the CPCU in Jakarta will include
positions of assistants in finance, implementation, programming, and monitoring and evaluation.
The qualification requirements for Pimpro/Pimbagro and Treasurer are as follows:
Pimpro/Pimbagro                           Treasurer (Bendaharawan)
*  Competent staff of the agency          *  Competent staff of the agency
*  University degree (SI)                 *  Diploma (D3)
*  Minimum staff level III/c for Province and  *  Minimum staff level II/c
Ill/b for District
*  Attainment of project management course   *  Attainment of treasury course certificate or
certificate or equivalent                 equivalent
*  Two years working experience in        *  One year working experience in
government projects                       government projects



59
Pimpro/Pimbagpro and treasurer requirements will be fulfilled and submitted for Bank
approval before loan effectiveness. A dated covenant will be included in the Loan Agreement.
Financial Statements. The project financial statements showing the financial position of
the project during the fiscal year ending on March 31 will consist of the following:
(a)  Financial Statement of Project Account: Each PIU will maintain separate sub-
project accounting records, on a cash basis, for each source of funds. The provincial PPIUs and
the CPCU will maintain similar accounting records for activities executed at provincial and
central levels, respectively. All relevant supporting documents will be kept for annual audit and
random inspection by the Bank. The Pimbagpro will submit the financial report to the PPIU on a
quarterly basis. The PPIU will consolidate all districts reports. The overall consolidated financial
project accounts will be prepared by the CPCU, i.e., Statement of Project Expenditures and
Financing (SPEF).
(b)  Financial Statement of Special Account and SOE: The DG Budget, as custodian of
the project Special Account and responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, will prepare the
financial statements of the Special Account and the SOE (Statement of Expenditures). The
financial statements in standard formats (developed from June 1992) will include the following:
-  Deposits and replenishments to the Special Account received from the Bank
-  Withdrawals from the Special Account, including all SOEs (both from SA and other
accounts) used as the basis for submission of withdrawal applications
*  Remaining balance at the end of fiscal year
*  Reconciliation between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank
Financial Management Reporting Requirements. As part of the monitoring system, progress of
financial status will be reported on a quarterly basis. All PIUs will submit progress reports two
weeks after the end of the quarter. The PPIUs will compile and consolidate the provincial report for
submission to consolidated reports for submission to project management and the Bank one month
after the end of the quarter.
All financial reports will follow the agreed formats provided in the PIP, which include the
following:
(1)  Statement of Plan and Actual Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF)
(2)  Cumulative Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (CSPEF)
(3)  Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP)
(4)  List of SPM through Special Account (SA)
(5)  List of SPM - Direct Payment (DP)
(6)  Cost Variance Report (CVR)
(7)  Unit Variance Report (UVR)
(8)  Variance Analysis Report (VAR)
(9)  Project Expenditures and Financing by District (LOCPEF) - consolidated report
only
(10) Status of Loan Disbursements (STATLN) - consolidated report only
Report 1-5 would follow BPKP Circular letter No. 02.00.07.4166/D.IV/1998 dated
February 27, 1998. All report formats will be provided in the PIP.



60
Auditing Requirement. The quarterly progress reports would be used for the basis of
preparing the financial statement of project account (namely (SPEF) to be submitted to the BPKP
regional offices at North Sumatera, Bengkulu and Riau, based on the provincial consolidated
account prepared by the PPIUs. The CPCU will prepare the overall consolidated accounts
combining the provincial account and the central level account for audit by BPKP head office which
will provide the audit opinion to the overall accounts on the basis of audit findings by the BPKP
regional offices and its own audit activities. Likewise the BPKP head office will also audit the
financial statement of Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by DG
Budget. The audits by BPKP would be in accordance with the terms of reference for the audit of
project accounts, Special Account, and SOEs acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be conducted in
accordance with the Audit Manual for World Bank Financed Projects issued by the bank (see
Central Operational Services Unit, EAP, July 1998). Pimpro/Pimbagpro have to certify and submit
Management Representation Letter to the auditor as part of project management control. The annual
audit reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the Government
fiscal year, i.e., not later than September 30 each year.



Sumatera Basic Education Project
Organizational Structure
Provincial Level
Governorl
r--------------------------------------- .
Head of Kanwil MOEC        |                           . .                          |            PCC
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Provincial Project Director              ------------------
Project Secretariat
lmprovmg
Institutional                          Improvement               Quality Improvement             Teacher Certification          Education
Development  Quality   MImpr n    QSLTP & MYs                     MI & MTs                       Management
Monitoring and Evaluation           Procurement
Information:                                     Direct Control
---------------------        Coordination
Oversight
PCC: Project Coordination Committee, provincial level



Suinatera Basic Education Project
Organizational Structure
District Level
r- - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - -___;
I Iead Kandep MOEC                                                                                       DoCC
I-lead Dinas Education
I-lead Kandep MORA
L-------------                 District Sub-Plrojcct Director
Plroject Secreaia
r |   I eachcr T raining |  | Teacher 1 rainh         |anagcmcnt                 SD & Ml Selhool  |        Book & Equipment
Contract I eaclers      SD&Ml                   SL'I'P & M'i's nraining;                                   Rabilitaio;              Irocurcment,
Community                  School Committee           SD & MT'
Participation                  T raining
Book & Equipmeint                     Teacher               Monitoring             I'eacher Incentives     School Mappi1g
Procurement, SLTI' &                Certification              and                for Remote Areas;
MTs                                  Ml & MTs               Evaluation            Study Tours
Autllority
Information:
Coordination
DCC: District Project Coordination Commitiitee



Sumatera Basic Education Project
Funds Flowchart
Ministiy of Finance
lo      KPKN                          Project Director        Center
LO
Provincial Office
Directorate of Budget                              KPKN                         Project Director         Province
KPKN                                            1-0    Sub-project Director                          District
Information:                                  Direction of flow of funds, except for scholarships and school grants
KPKN: State Treasurer
Project Director, Treasurer, Secretary and Project Staff from Kandep/Kanin, MOEC, Kandep, MORA, and Dinas Education, appointed by
Bupati/Walikotamadia, at the recommendation of the three agencies.



64
Annex 7
Indonesia: Sumatera Basic Education Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned             Actual
A. Project Budget (US$000)                 (At final PCD stage)
At final PCD stage (3/98)                       187.0              185.2
At decision meeting (8/98)
As of 3/16/99                                                      337.9
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                           26
First Bank mission (identification)                                  10/17/96
Appraisal mission departure                      06/28/98            09/25/98
Negotiations                                     07/22/98            10/26/98
Renegotiations for IBRD/IDA blend                                    03/16/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/99
Prepared by: Provincial Project Preparation Committees in each of the provinces
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant No. 029284
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Brigitte Duces                            Sr. Operations Officer (Task Team Leader)
Sue Berryman                              Sr. Education Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Elizabeth King                            Principal Economist (Peer Reviewer)
Maris O'Rourke                            Manager (Peer Reviewer)
Adriaan Verspoor                          Sr. Education Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Aya Aoki                                  Operations Assistant
Jacqueline Baptist                        Economist (Consultant)
Ulf Bartholomae                           Education Specialist (Consultant)
Basilius Bengoteku                        Operations Officer
John de Bresser                           Institutional Development Spec. (Consultant)
Bridie Champion                           Disbursement Officer
Stephen Dice                              Regional Development Specialist
Deon Filmer                               Economist
Vincent Greaney                           Sr. Education Specialist
Dorothy Judkins                           Team Assistant
Samuel Lieberman                          Lead Specialist, Human Resources
Mieko Masuda                              Project Analyst (Consultant)
Karin Nordlander                          Sr. Counsel
Nancy Mattson                             Project Costing Specialist (Consultant)
Menno Pradhan                             Monitoring & Evaluation Spec. (Consultant)
Rosfita Roesli                            Education Specialist
Haneen Sayed                              Economist
Marsoedi Soedjak                          Operations Officer
H. Anthony Somerset                       Teacher Education Specialist (Consultant)
John Strawhom                             Institutional Develop. Specialist (Consultant)
Jerry Strudwick                           Education Specialist (Consultant)
Unggul Suprayitno                         Disbursement Officer
Nigel Wakeham                            Architect



65
Annex 8
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Sumatera Utara. Project Implementation Plan - October, 1998
Riau Project Implementation Plan - October, 1998
Bengkulu Project Implementation Plan - October, 1998
Cost Tables for the Project.
Project Action Plans for each of the Project Provinces
Project Guidelines:
1. Teacher Training Guidelines for SD/MI
2. Teacher Training Guidelines for SLTP and MTs
3. Cluster Grants for Teacher Training
4. Libraries for SD/MI
5. Libraries for STLP/MTs
6. Procurement of Books and Materials
7. Guidelines on School Mapping
8. Guidelines for the Renovation of SD & MI Schools
9. Management Training Guidelines
10. Local Government Strengthening
11. Community Participation
12. Certification of MTs/MI Teachers
13. Incentives for Teachers
14. Private School Grants
15. Contract Teachers
16. School Committees
17. Monitoring
Joint Decree between Director General Primary and Secondary Education, Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Religious Affairs and Ministry of Home Affairs regarding Project Implementation for
Basic Education in Sumatera Utara, Riau, Bengkulu, Sulawesi Selatan and Maluku, 271' October,
1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Building Institutional Capacity, 1998. Draft working paper for project preparation.
Consolidation and Renovation of Primary Schools Construction of New Junior High Schools,
1998. Implementation Specialist's Report.
Framework for an Assessment of the Impact of the Economic Crisis on the Demand for Basic
Education, 1998. Draft working paper for project preparation.
Institutional Arrangements and Decentralization in Basic Education, 1997. Draft working paper
for project preparation.



66
Issues in Teacher Training, 1998. Draft working paper for project preparation.
Monitoring and Evaluation, 1998. Draft working paper for project preparation.
Scholarships and School Grants, 1998. Draft working paper for project preparation.
Suprayitno, Unggul "Financial Management System" October, 1998. Table and Sample
Financial Reporting Forms.
C. Other
World Bank Demand-side Financing, 1997.
World Bank. Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Sumatera Basic Education Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Operations Portfolio
As of 1 5-Mar-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD        IDA       Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig      Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 212
Active Projects
ID-PE-36049      1999   GOI                                EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                      21.50         0.00        0.00               20.40       -1.10         0.00
ID-PE-3967       1999   GOI                                FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                      44.70         0.00        0.00               43.70         -.10        0.00
ID-PE-56074      1999   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              MUNICIPAL INNOVATION                       5.00         0.00        0.00                5.00         0.00        0,00
ID-PE-36048      1998   GOI                                CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                       6.90         0.00        0.00                6.40          .24          .07
ID-PE-36956      1998   GOI                                SAFE MOTHERHOOD                           42.50         0.00        6.00               34.67         6.00        0.00
ID-PE-37095      1998   GOI                                MALUKU REG. DEV                           16.30         0.00        0.00               15.65          .65        0.00
ID-PE-39644      1998   GOI                                W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                       103.50         0.00        0.00              100.50       -1.66         0.00
ID-PE-3993       1998   GOI                                N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                     234.00         0.00       50.00              184.00         5.34        0.00
ID-PE-40061      1998   GOI                                BENGKULU REG DEV                          20.50         0.00        0.00               19.90         1.37        0.00
ID-PE-45337      1998   GOI                                KECAMATAN DEV FUND                       225.00         0.00        0.00             212.13        -2.45         0.00
ID-PE-48715      1998                                      IIDP                                      34.50         0.00        8.50               24.64         7.00        7.89
ID-PE-55755      1998   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              BANKING REFORM ASST.                      20.00         0.00        0.00               13.73        13.73        0.00
ID-PE-35544      1997   GOI                                SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                        20.00         0.00        2.50               17.50         5.00        0.00
ID-PE-36047      1997   GOI                                BALI URBAN INFRAST.                      110.00         0.00       15.00               89.52         2.82       -1.85
ID-PE-36053      1997   GOI                                SULAWESI UDP II                          155.00         0.00       42.05               97.05        65.75        5.73
ID-PE-3987       1997                                      C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.                     104.00         0.00        0.00               96.50       27.13         0.00
ID-PE-40195      1997   GOI                                QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                      71.20         0.00        9.89               55.25         6.61        0.00
ID-PE-4026       1997   GOI/PERUMKA                        RLWY EFFICIENCY                          105.00         0.00        0.00              103.60       29.94         0.00
ID-PE-40521      1997   GOI                                VILLAGE INFRA II                         140.10         0.00        0.00               80.87       49.12        16.48
ID-PE-41894      1997   GOI                                SUMATRA SEC EDUC                          98.00         0.00        0.00               83.29         5.95        0.00
ID-PE-42540      1997                                      IODINE DEF. CONTROL                       28.50         0.00        2.50               23.32         2.99        0.00
ID-PE-49051      1997                                      BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                      16.40         0.00          .90              13.05         2.47        0.00
ID-PE-37097      1996   GOI                                E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                          99.00         0.00        0.00               81.38         9.88        0.00
ID-PE-39312      1996   GOI                                SECOND E. JAVA UDP                       142.70         0.00       25.70               94.65      104.55         0.00
ID-PE-39643      1996   GOI                                STD/AIDS                                  24.80         0.00       19.80                1.69        19.64        0.00
ID-PE-3978       1996   GOI                                IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV                      47.00         0.00        6.00               24.41       22.48          6.03
ID-PE-4003       1996   GOI                                SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                      60.40         0.00       30.00               19.77        30.68        0.00
ID-PE-4004       1996   GOI                                HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III                      65.00         0.00         6.85              35.19        -1.64        0.00
ID-PE-4008       1996   GOI                                NUSA TENGGAPA DEV.                        27.00         0.00         4.90              16.33         5.38        -.36
ID-PE-4011       1996   GOT                                SULAWESI AGRI AREA                        26.80         0.00        3.70               17.37         2.52        0.00
ID-PE-4014       1996   GOI                                KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                       19.10         0.00         0.00              18.32         6.80        0.00
ID-PE-4016       1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                      86.90         0.00       10.00               64.44        34.29        0.00
ID-PE-4021       1996   GOI                                POW. TRANS & DIST II                     373.00         0.00       80.00              189.22      210.41        -9.73
ID-PE-41896      1996   GOI                                HR CAPACITY BUILDING                      20.00         0.00         3.60              14.90        10.50         0.00
ID-PE-3951       1995   GOI                                KALIMANTAN UDP                           136.00         0.00         0.00              59.22        51.55         0.00
ID-PE-3965       1995   GOI                                HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                      88.00         0.00       20.00               49.59        25.92         4.58
ID-PE-3968       1995                                      BOOK & READING DEV                       132.50         0.00       31.50               80.08        30.58         0.00
ID-PE-3972       1995   GOI                                AG. RESEARCH II                           63.00         0.00       14.10               37.25        33.68        -.32
ID-PE-39754      1995                                      TA FOR INFRA. II                          28.00         0.00        0.00               23.31        20.51         3.19
ID-PE-3979       1995   GOI                                RURAL ELECT II                           398.00         0.00       39.90              125.35      161.51        96.59
ID-PE-3984       1995   GOI                                LAND ADMINISTRATION                       80.00         0.00       16.50               28.70        25.91         0.00
JD-PE-3988       1995   GOI                                PHRD II                                   69.00         0.00        0.00               29.99        10.97        0.00
ID-PE-4001       1995   GO                                TELECOM SECTOR MODER                     325.00         0.00       50.00              192.74      141.08          0.00
ID-PE-4019       1995   GOI                                ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                        25.00         0.00         3.30              10.53        12.45         0.00



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-3890      1994   GOI                               SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U                    174.00        0.00       18.67              69.04       60.80       17.92
ID-PE-3910      1994   GOI                               SUMATERA & KALIMAN P                    260.50        0.00       20.00             168.65      154.99         8.06
ID-PE-3937      1994   GOI                               INTEGRATED SWAMPS                        65.00        0.00        0.00              30.27       18.41         0.00
ID-PE-3945      1994   GOI                               HIGHWAY SECTOR II                       350.00        0.00       40.00             124.19      146.51    -185.83
ID-PE-3954      1994   GOI                               JAVA IRR IMP & W R M                    165.70        0.00       22.00              67.81       56.08         0.00
ID-PE-3985      1994   GOI                               WTRSHED CONSERVATION                     56.50        0.00        0.00              42.06       27.12         0.00
ID-PE-3998      1994   GOI                               SURABAYA URBAN                          175.00        0.00       30.00              68.96       76.01       15.61
ID-PE-4010      1994   GOI                               DAM SAFETY                               55.00        0.00        8.00              24.76       24.14        0.00
ID-PE-4017      1994   GOI                               UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR                     58.90        0.00       11.23              18.11       19.46        0.00
ID-PE-4020      1994   GOI                               KABUPATEN ROADS V                       101.50        0.00        0.00              15.55       14.20        0.00
ID-PE-3914      1993   GOI                               THIRD COMM HEALTH &                      93.50        0.00       16.00               6.54       16.02        0.00
ID-PE-3990      1993   GOI                               WTR & SANI FOR LOW I                     80.00        0.00       11.00              26.45       37.47       27.61
ID-PE-3999      1993   GOI                               GROUNDWATER DEVT.                        54.00        0.00       24.94               1.95       18.89         1.48
ID-PE-4006      1993   GOI                               E.INDONESIA KABUPATE                    155.00        0.00        0.00              15.16       15.13        0.00
ID-PE-4007      1993   GOI                               POWER (CIRATA II)                       104.00        0.00       26.00              16.08       40.79       -7.32
ID-PE-4009      1993   GOI                               INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                     32.00        0.00        5.50               4.51       10.01          .58
ID-PE-3860      1992   GOI                               TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                     87.60        0.00        0.00              21.34       20.30         0.00
ID-PE-3916      1992                                     SURALAYA THERMAL POW                    423.60        0.00      132.20              23.61      149.87         5.05
ID-PE-3940      1992   GOI                               PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY IMPROVE             37.00        0.00        6.00               3.90        9.90         0.00
ID-PE-3966      1992   GOI                               NON-FORMAL EDUC III                      69.50        0.00        3.10                .49        3.57         1.97
ID-PE-3969      1992   GOI                               PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH                     36.60        0.00        3.20               2.75        5.95        0.00
ID-PE-3997      1992   GOI                               TELECOM IV                              375.00        0.00       50.08              47.56       97.62         1.81
ID-PE-3922      1991   GOI                               SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA                     100.00        0.00        0.00               1.78        1.76         0.00
ID-PE-3977      1991   GOI                               THIRD JABOTABEK URB                      61.00        0.00        6.24               5.45       11.70          .88
Total                                                                                          7,129.70        0.00      937.35           3,362.07   2,233.15         16.12                    cn
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,830.30           17,405.34            20,235.64
of which has been repaid:                  51.31            8,302.84            8,354.15
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               6,140.99             9,116.50           15,257.49
Amount sold                                        0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid               :                0.00               88.08                88.08
Total Undisbursed                :            3,362.07                14.05            3,376.12
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 28-Feb-99.



69
Anmex 10
Indonesia at a glance
East   Lower-                        ________
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &   middle-
Indonesia    Paciflc  Income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     200.1     1,753    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,110      970     1,230   1
GNP (Atlas meftooa  US$ billions)                   222.1     1,707     2,818                      T
Average annuaf growth, 1991-97
Population (%                                         1.6       1.3      1.2
Labor force (%J                                       2.5       1.4       1.3   j GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of poplation below national poverty line) V/  15
Urban population (% oftotal population)               37        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      e5        69        69
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 live brths)                47        38        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)             40        16         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (Y. of population)               62        84        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatio age 15+)                    16        t7        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  114      115       111              Indonesia
Male                                               117       118       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             112       116       113    _ ,
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                          39.3    79.9      227.4    214.6
Gross domestic investmenetGDP               24.1    26.7       30,8     32.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP           24.5    20.2       25.8     28.1                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  27.1    26.3       30.2     30.9
Gross nationai savings/GDP                    ..       ..      25.5        ..                      T
Current account balance/GDP                   ..       ..      -3.5      -1.2     Domestnc ,nvsten
lnterestpaymentrJGDP                         1.2      3.0       2.2       27                                  Investment
Total debtVGDP                              35.6    53.7       56.7      64.3     Savig
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..      35.5
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      55,0
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    206.8
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 6.7      7.8      8.0       4.6                    -Indonesia
GNP per capita                      4.1      6.1      6.8       3.5        ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      -1.7      8.7      6.3       6.3        ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (1/%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 29.7    24.3       16.5      16.1    15 T
Industry                                    34.1     33.8      43.2     43.9     s 
Manufacturing                             10.4    16.8       25.5      25.6     s
Services                                    36.3    41.9       40.3     40.1
Prvate consumption                          63.5    62.6       62.3     62.2            92   93   94   95   98   97
General govemment consumption                9.4    11.1        7.6       6.9   IG0I                        GDP
Imports of goods and services               21.5    20.5       26.4     29.2   |
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  4.1      3.2       3.2       0.6   25-
Industry                                     6.5    10.0       10.5      5.6    20
Manufacturing                             14.5    11.0       11.7       6.2     s?
Services                                     8.7      7.9       7.2       5.3     ot 
Private consumption                         10.0      7.9       7.4      7.5    sT
General govemment consumption                9.2      3.9       3.8       0.1     0-
Gross domestic investment                   10.8    10.6       11.8       4.2           92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                7.3    11.2        9.6     18.2                   Exports   -    mports
Gross national product                       6.2      7.9       7.5       5.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



70
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                       ___
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic pricesI
(% change)                                                                         1T
Consumer prces                                         5.7        8.0       6.6    101 
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.4    -0.2         9.0     12.0                      -
Govemment finance                                                                    T
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   I
Current revenue                                  -    16.6       16.0      17              92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                -4 .9       7.6       8.5   j              GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           1.0       3.4 4
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ mIllions)
(US$ millions)I
Total exports (fob)                                 13,673    49,815    53,547     r0o oo
Fuel                                                6,964    11,722    11,603     50 am
Rubber                                               752      1,894     1,505     40oo0I
Manufactures                                        2,747    21,210    18,568       _                          l
Total imports (cif                             ..  12,760    42,929    41,660      30
Food                                                 711  4,357  3,796  2000                    I_hIE
Fuel and energy                                     2,375     3,607     3,924     10W0S
Capital goods                                       5,005    19,973    19,558 6         _I
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export prce index (1995=100)                    .       60
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      72                                    a Exports     C Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       83                        i
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                               -
(US$ millions.)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (1°)
Exports of goods and services                                  58,317    61,716     0   _
Imports of goods and services                   .        ..    52,822    47,467
Resource balance                                                5,495    14,248                              1
Net income                                                     -6,094
Net current transfers                                          -7,470              -2 I          " E               l
Current account balance                                        -8,069    -2,492     3
Financing items (net)                                          11,967    -7,529
Changes in net reserves                                        -3,898    10,021      
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      1,508    4,051    18,251
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)             415.0  1,282.6   2,342.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
¶1976    1986      1994      t997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       14,010   42,916   129,03 i     7,896
IBRD                                        213    5,058    11,138     9,991                       A 9,991
IDA                                         418      857       736       715               G 1
Composition olfaIl debt, 10iifjSs millIons)
Total debt service                           1340    5,984    21,459    22,768                                 C: 2,970
IBRD                                          4      636      2,249    1,848                                   D: 5,149
IDA                                           2       12        26        26
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              59      136       190         .E:26,748
Official creditors                          839    1,016       -803      615   |7  
Private creditors                         1,314      528      6,971
Foreign direct investment                   344      258      7,960                      F: 76,023
Portfolio equity                              0        0      3,099
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 564      982      1,194      810      A - iBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               257      828       905       899      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          1      236      1,429    1,165     C - IMF                       G - Short-termI
Net flows                                   256      592       -523     -266    __I
Interest payments                             6      411       846       709
Net transfers                               250      180    -1,370      -975
Development Economics



IBRD 29789
I :F - : - a ?PUA NEW GUINEA k
LU.
C~~~~~~~~~~1
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oi t Va
z~~~~~~~~~
as (4  0 \   ,  ' 0  X 2  'V-''-S'
0.     2     }; -    -*  J:   
UJ                         ~~~~~~~~~tnt
C/) 
0
CC
E~~
-0~~~~~
N:  ~~~A
NOVEMBER 1998



