Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4456 IND
Loan Agreement
(Sumatera Basic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 16, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4456 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  April 16, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association) 
of even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement) (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development 
Credit Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal 
amount equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR14,800,000);  
(C)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed 
on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) are made;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Development 
Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 
“Development  Credit  Agreement” means  the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Development Credit Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty four 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($54,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement: (i) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant made under Parts A.2 and C.6 of the Project, described in Schedule 
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required by schools and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project (other than Parts A.2 and C.6 of the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Subject to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, Sections 2.02(b), 3.01, 
3.02, 3.03 and 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 through 7 
thereto are incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said 
Sections and Schedules 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a)
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
(b)
the term “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “Loan” and “Loan 
Page  3
Account”; and 
(c)
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Loan Agreement”.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been 
notified otherwise by the Bank: 
(a)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association pursuant 
to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development Credit Agreement 
enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) 
of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name 
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and 
(b)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such Sections of the Development 
Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be deemed to be furnished to both the 
Association and Bank. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
shall have been fulfilled.
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 4.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Mr. Darsjah, 
Director General of Budget
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird, 
Country Director for Indonesia
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
Page  5
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
Page  6
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
