Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2097-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
June 2, 1977
Thls document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =   Philippine Peso (P) 7.50
P 1.00             =    100 centavos
P 1.00             =   US$0.133
P 1 million        =   US$133,333
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)         =   1,000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)         =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA) =   1,000 kilovolt amperes (kVA)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)   =    1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilometer (km)        =    1,000 meters (m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
NPC   -   National Power Corporation
MECO  -   Manila Electric Company
NEA   -   National Electrification Administration
PDC   -   Power Development Council
NPC'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3 pages
PHILIPPINES
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Pro,ject Summary
Borrower:       National Power Corporation (NPC)
Guarantor:      Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $58 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years, with
interest at 8.2% per annum.
Project
Description:  The project includes:
(a) Expansion of transmission system in Luzon comprising:
(i) about 1,360 km of 230 kV, 115 kV and 69 kV trans-
mission lines;
(ii) substations with a total capacity of 225 MVA;
(b) The first stage of establishing communication systems and
a control center in Luzon;
(c) Support for NPC's training activities;
(d) Consultants' services for management improvement and
a tariff study.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated
Cost:
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
($ million) ----  --(%) -
A. Transmission System
Transmission lines & substations       14.02   29.15    43.17
Engineering & administration            2.20     -       2.20
Subtotal                       16.22   29.15   45.37       64
B. Communication & Control
Communications network                  0.83    4.87     5.70
Control facilities                      2.21    2.97     5.18
Engineering & administration            0.55    0.93     1.48
Subtotal                        3.59    8.77   12.36       71
C. Training & Advisory Services
Training school                         2.34    2.38     4.72
Overseas training                        -      0.41     0.41
Management advisory team                0.11    0.72     0.83
Tariff study                             -      0.03     0.03
Subtotal                        2.45    3.54    5.99       59
Base cost estimate                       22.26   41.46    63.72      65
Physical contingencies                    3.51    3.96     7.47       -
Price contingencies                       8.57   12.58    21.15       -
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)   34.34   58.00   92.34       63
Financing                             Local    Foreign    Total
Plan:                               ------    million) ------
Source
NPC           34.34         -      34.34
World Bank      -        58.00     58.00
Total       34.34      58.00     92.34



Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated                  IBRD                     ($'000)
Disbursements:        Fiscal Year           Annual    Cumulative
FY78                 880        880
FY79              11,920     12,800
FY80              25,900     38,700
FY81              16,050     54,750
FY82               3,250     58,000
Procurement
Arrangements:   Equipment and materials to be financed under the proposed
loan would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. For the purpose
of bid comparison, qualified local manufacturers would
receive a margin of preference of 15% over the c.i.f. price
of imported goods or the level of customs duties, whichever
is lower. Civil works contracts for erection of transmission
lines and construction of communication and control and
NPC's training centers would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
local procurement procedures which are acceptable.
Technical
Assistance:     Engineering (144 man-months) and management consulting
services (108 man-months) would be provided to assist NPC in
carrying out parts (b) and (d) of the Project described
above. The proposed loan would also cover the foreign
costs incurred in the training of middle management staff of
NPC. The foreign exchange cost of technical assistance, net
of contingencies, is estimated at about $2.1 million.
Rate of Return:   Based on the expected level of tariffs, the estimated economic
rate of return on NPC's investment program for the 1977-82
period is 10%.
Staff Project
Report:        No. 1552-PH, dated May 23, 1977.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR A
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Power Corporation, with the guarantee of the Republic of the
Philippines, for the equivalent of $58.0 million to help finance a seventh
power project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4 1/2
years of grace, with interest at 8.20 % per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex I contains country economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual
rate of about 5%. However, the rate of growth was less than what might
have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources of the
Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the benefits of
growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population and labor
force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of taxation
accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public investment in
necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak export
performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including
an agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganiza-
tion.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic
activity in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%.
/1 This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project
(P-2061-PH) of April 28, 1977.



-2-
This upsurge was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in
higher export incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial
production for the domestic market, and an expansion in public and private
investment.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by
the events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the
prices for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the
equivalent of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable
to the impact of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the pro-
longed recession in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of
the recession were cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the
external terms of trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975
by the continued rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine
exports. While the international economic situation has made it difficult
for the Government to realize its objective of accelerating the rate of
development, GNP in 1974, 1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2%
per year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by
unusually adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25%
in 1973/74, but because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75;
the Government had to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure
adequate stocks. However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to
favorable weather conditions and during this period the Philippines was vir-
tually self-sufficient in rice. The Government continues to give the highest
priority to further increasing agricultural production and has initiated a
number of programs designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and
supervised credit. It has also intensified efforts to expand the social
services needed in rural areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning services, and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 hectares; thus, title to 390,000 hectares
(out of the total 825,000 hectares of farms occupied by such tenants) has
been transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the com-
pensation package to landlords to reduce their resistance to land reform,
but strong administrative efforts will be necessary to ensure continued
progress in the implementation of the program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development and



- 3 -
other priority projects contributed significantly to sustaining the higher
level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction industry.
The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable because of the
natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a very active
private sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72./1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent in FY74. The
ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an
average of 9% in the early 1970s to about 12% during the period FY74-76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, Philippine's balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. High
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. External reserves
were about $1.2 billion at the end of 1976, equivalent to four months' imports.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits, as the
ratio of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average
about 16-17% during the rest of this decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share
in total debt outstanding is about 17% and its share in debt-service is
about 4%. These shares are expected to increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       In addition to increased domestic savings substantial foreign assist-
ance will be essential to help finance the large investment expenditures
which will be necessary for the country's development. In order to ensure
that disbursement of external assistance reaches levels commensurate with
the level of development expenditures which will be required during the
latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will need to be
maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500 million
which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments
of public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have
reached $2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this
level through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank staff Report "The Philippines: Priorities and
Prospects for Development" estimate that it should be possible in the longer
term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms at a rate of about 7%
per annum provided that good economic management continues and international
economic conditions improve. High priority must be accorded to expanding
employment opportunities, because unemployment and underemployment are still
high and the labor force continues to grow at 3% a year. Continued attention
must also be given to expanding the Government's effective family planning
program to reduce the rate of growth of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support
of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to
foster the growth of exports. It is also actively encouraging both local and
foreign investors to expand productive investments. While the Government
understands that large scale borrowing abroad cannot continue indefinitely,
it also recognizes that it will take time for development programs to have an



impact on the balance of payments. Therefore, the Government is seeking
increased support from the international financial community to assist in
the financing of its development effort.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       By 'May 17, 1977, the Philippines had received 47 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,201.8 million, net of cancellations. About one third of Bank lending
($407.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($420.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $248.4 million has been for industry and
$125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now
being implemented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1977, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. About
one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and another third would be for needed basic
infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power. The
amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, population
and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account for
nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be for
industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs of
small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid growth
in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a significant
expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine development
program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed to meet the
country's substantial future needs.
19.       This is the eighth loan to be presented to the Executive
Directors in FY77. Loans for tree farming, rural infrastructure, irrigation,
industrial finance and rural electrification are expected to be ready for
consideration by the Executive Directors within the next few months.
20.       As of April 30, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $32.4 million had been sold, cancelled
and repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $46.6 million, including $0.6 million
undisbursed.   A Regional Mission for East Asia was established by IFC in
Manila on April 1, 1977.



- 6 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
21.       The three major regions of the Philippines are in very different
stages of power development. Most of past power development has taken place
on the island of Luzon, where about half of the population live and most
industrialization has occurred. Some grid development has also taken place
on the main southern island of Mindanao, particularly in the northern part
where the availability of easily developed low cost hydropower has attracted
substantial industrial investment. In the Visayas, which comprises all other
major islands located in the central part of the Philippine Archipelago,
grids are only now beginning to be constructed.
22.       Historically, ownership of the power sector has been fragmented.
The largest utility in the country has been the privately-owned Manila Elec-
tric Company (MECO) which holds the franchise for the greater Manila area.
The National Power Corporation (NPC), which is the second largest utility and
totally Government-owned, generates and sells power in bulk to other utilities
and large industrial consumers. In addition, there are a number of small
utilities in the country, operating largely in isolation. In 1970, there
were 336 privately-owned and 122 publicly-owned utilities, most of which were
very small and were located in urban areas. Since then a number have been
taken over by rural cooperatives and some have ceased operating. As of
December 1975, about 120 utilities and 51 cooperatives were actually supplying
consumers.
23.       This fragmented ownership has made the integrated development of
the sector slow and difficult. To overcome this problem, the Government has
taken steps to consolidate ownership of the sector. In 1972 NPC was made
responsible for constructing all future generation facilities and estab-
lishing island grids. The Government is in the process of purchasing most of
MECO's generating plants, which will be operated by NPC in the future. When
this process is completed, MECO will become primarily a power distributor.
The Government has also established the National Electrification Administra-
tion (NEA) with responsibility for integrating small utilities and extending
power service to rural areas.
24.       In March 1976 the Government established the Energy Development
Board to be responsible for the exploration and development of primary energy
resources, including geothermal energy, water, oil, gas, and coal. The Board
will work closely with the existing Power Development Council (PDC), the
body responsible for formulating policies and programs on power development
and coordinating the activities of all organizations connected with electric
power. PDC coordinates policy for NPC, NEA, MECO and all other utilities and
is responsible for approving major power projects and tariff rate policies.
It is attached to the Department of Public Works, Transport and Communications,
to which NPC and NEA also report. The sector was organized in this manner
during the first half of 1976 and has yet to be tested in practice.
25.       Since 1957 the Bank Group has made six loans and one IDA credit
amounting to $160.3 million, net of cancellations, to NPC and the Government
for six projects in the power sector. Four projects have been fully completed.
A loan of $22 million (Loan No. 349-PH) was made in 1972 to finance the Fifth



- 7 -
Power Project which included a second thermal unit at Bataan and transmission
facilities in Luzon. Due to initial delays in the delivery of transformers
and poor weather and soil conditions which affected the implementation of
the transmission component, disbursements are somewhat behind schedule.
However, the loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the closing date
which has been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. The loan of
$61 million (Loan No. 1034-PH) for the Sixth Power Project made in 1974 is
financing the construction of the 100 MW Pantabangan hydropower plant and
expansion of transmission systems in Luzon. The construction of the generat-
ing plant was completed in April 1977 as originally scheduled and the plant
has since been operating at full capacity. Work on transmission lines has
been slow and completion will be delayed by one year. While some progress
has been made in the context of past loans to improve NPC's institutional
capacity, as noted in paras. 32-36 of this report, NPC's responsibilities are
expected to grow very rapidly in the years ahead and strong efforts will be
necessary to build up NPC's capability further so that it can effectively
implement a much larger power program. IFC made a loan of $8 million to MECO
and an equity investment of $4 million in 1967. IFC's Board approved the
sale of IFC's equity holding in MECO on September 28, 1976 (Resolution
No. IFC 76-43).
26.       The project performance audit report on the Fourth Power Project
(Sec. M76-35) suggested that the Bank should agree with NPC procedures for
annual review and revision of tariffs and specific targets for transmission
expansion. It also suggested that the Bank should assist in the development
of management training programs. These comments have been taken into account
in the design of subsequent projects, including the project now proposed.
The report also recommended greater use of local management consultants to
assist NPC. This suggestion was carefully considered at the time of appraisal,
but in view of NPC's very rapidly growing responsibilities in the power
sector and the technical requirements of managing a muich larger program, it
was decided that the need for tecnical assistance could only be provided by
consultants from an experienced operating utility of a size equivalent to NPC
which has confronted problems similar to those which will be faced in the
power sector in the Philippines in the coming years.
Present Access to Service
27.       The electrification of the country has been progressing steadily.
The per capita consumption of electricity in 1974 was estimated at 280 kWh,
compared with 490 kWh in Korea, 184 kWh in Thailand and 120 kWh in India.
Over 30% of the population is currently served with electricity compared
with 23% in 1970. Although regional imbalances presently exist, with 46%
of the households electrified in Luzon compared with 15% in Mlindanao and
13% in the Visayas, NEA's rural electrification program is expected to
improve the'situation. The total electricity supply in 1974 was estimated
at about 11.9 billion kWh; 50% was provided by MECO, 20% by NPC, 21% by self-
generating industries, and 9% by small utilities. On the consumption side,
industrial consumers represented about 55%; residential consumers, 20%; and
commercial, agricultural and other users, 25%.



- 8 -
28.       NPC and a few self-generating utilities, including MECO, have pro-
vided reliable and continuous power supply to about 90% of the total consumers,
but services by other self-generating utilities have been substandard, with
power available for only a few hours each day. The situation has worsened in
some rural areas because small utilities have lost interest in maintaining
their business in apprehension of being taken over by NEA and some of them
have even ceased operation. However, within a few years NEA's program will
more than compensate for the deteriorating service from smaller utilities.
Sector Development Objectives
29.       The Government is committed to a policy of rapid industrialization
which is central to its objectives of fostering growth, employment and exports.
It is also committed to a policy of dispersing industrial growth from the
already congested Manila Metropolitan Area to other regions of the country.
In order to meet these objectives and to realize the planned annual growth
in Gross National Product of 7% during the next 10 years, it is estimated that
electricity consumption in the Visayas and in Mindanao will need to grow at
annual rates of about 16% and 13%, respectively, compared with about 8% in
Luzon. This would result in an overall annual growth in consumption of 11%.
Because NPC is the institution primarily responsible for power generation, it
has a critical role to play in helping the Philippines realize its economic
objectives.
30.       About 80% of the power generation in the Philippines is currently
dependent on imported oil and the remaining 20% on hydro resources. The
Government has decided to diversify energy resources by developing indigenous
hydro and geothermal power and by introducing nuclear energy. The construc-
tion of the first geothermal power plant is underway in southern Luzon, while
explorations for more geothermal energy are being undertaken in several parts
of the country and have already shown promising results. Investigations
are also progressing at several potential hydropower sites. In addition, NPC
has started the construction of its first nuclear power plant with financing
from the United States Export-Import Bank and commercial banks.
31.       NEA has set a target of establishing an electric power cooperative
in each province by 1977, completing the country's "backbone" system by 1980,
providing electricity to all towns and villages by 1984, and attaining total
electrification of the country by 1990. The United States Agency for Inter-
national Development has been providing financial and technical assistance
for this program. By December 1975, a total of 75 cooperatives had already
been formed; 51 were operating, serving a rural population of about 2 million
on a 24-hour-day basis. In the course of establishing cooperatives, NEA
takes over and integrates some of the existing small utilities, particularly
those with exorbitant rates and poor service. By March 1976, the number of
utilities taken over by NEA had reached 106. NEA's activities in the power
distribution sector will eventually result in only the largest 10 to 15
private utilities remaining in business.



- 9-
Sector Investment Program and Costs
32.       The sector investment program required to meet the expected demand
increase is huge. It will almost triple the country's generating capacity by
expanding it from about 3,100 MW in 1974 to about 8,500 MW in 1985. Emphasis
will be placed on the development of non-oil sources of generation. If imple-
mented as planned, the program would reduce oil-fired generating capacity from
81% of the total in 1974 to 53% in 1985; hydropower would correspondingly
increase from 19 to 31%; and geothermal and nuclear power would share the
remaining 16%. Although the objective of diversifying energy sources is
reasonable, the program is very ambitious and involves certain risks. Financial
constraints may hinder the timely development of capital-intensive hydropower
projects and technical problems may arise in developing nuclear and geothermal
sources of energy. In particular, sufficient geothermal steam may not be
secured in time for the planned development of 745 MW of geothermal generation.
The program therefore needs continuous review and, if difficulties do arise, it
is possible that additional oil-fired thermal plants will be needed.
33.       The rapid expansion in generating capacity will need to be accom-
panied by a vigorous program of extending the transmission network. In 1976,
NPC had a total of 3,600 km of transmission lines and about 1,200 MVA of
substation capacity to supply utility and non-utility consumers. About
3,300 km of the transmission network are located in Luzon, 200 km in Mindanao
and 100 km in the Visayas. As noted in earlier paragraphs, the grid system
has been concentrated in the Central Luzon area, and the population in
northern and southern Luzon and large parts of Mindanao and the Visayas
either has no access to electricity or has to rely on unreliable and costly
generation by small local utilities. NEA is vigorously promoting the rural
electrification program throughout the country, but progress of this important
program is dependent on the rapid expansion of NPC's grid system into rural
areas. The Bank Group has been assisting the grid expansion under the Loans
for Fifth and Sixth projects (Loan No. 809-PH, Credit No. 296-PH, and Loan
No. 1034-PH), by financing about 1,100 km of transmission lines and 1,200 MVA
of substation facilities in Luzon. The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan has provided funds for the first stage of grid expansion in the
Cagayan Valley in northern Luzon. NPC is also expanding the grids in Mindanao
and the Visayas with assistance from the Asian Development Bank and Banque de
Paris et des Pays-Bas. In general, NPC has been able to finance a large
part of its generating program from export credits and other commercial
sources on reasonable terms, but needs to rely more heavily on official
sources of development financing to support its transmission program for
which commercial sources of finance are less readily available.
34.       The total sector investment at the end of 1974 was about $954 million,
with NPC accounting for $405 million, or 42%; MECO, 45%; and NEA and other
utilities, 13%. The development program envisaged through 1983 will require
a total investment of about $6.7 billion (P 50.6 billion) at current prices,
including financial charges; this would represent an increase in the share of
power in public investment from 10% in recent years to about 35% in the



- 10 -
future. NPC's share of the investment program will amount to $5.8 billion
(P 43.9 billion), or about 87% of the total. About 65% of this amount will
be invested in Luzon, 19% in Mindanao, and 16% in the Visayas. Investment
by MECO on its transmission and distribution system will be about $450 mil-
lion (P 3.4 billion) through 1983. Another $440 million (P 3.3 billion)
will be spent by NEA in financing rural cooperatives to acquire the assets of
private utilities and to expand the distribution systems in rural areas.
Investment in the remainder of the sector is likely to be small in comparison
as it will cover only distribution costs for small utilities not absorbed in
the NEA cooperative system.
Constraints on Sector Development
35.       NPC was created in 1936 as a non-stock public corporation, but was
converted to a stock corporation wholly owned by the Government in 1960. Its
corporate powers are vested in a Board of Directors which includes the General
Manager. Although NPC was originally chartered to develop hydropower re-
sources in the country, its role and responsibilities have been dramatically
expanded in the past few years following the Government's decision to make
NPC the prime force in the development of power generation from all sources.
This change in sector policy was so fundamental that NPC has not yet been
able to adjust fully to the new situation. NPC has constructed five hydro-
power stations and one thermal power station in its 40-year history, but it
will need to construct and operate about 75 large power projects in the next
15 years. To carry out a program of the required magnitude successfully,
NPC will need to greatly improve its capacity to construct and operate a much
larger, more modern, and more complex power system. In particular, NPC needs
to improve its capacity for system planning and financial management and
control, to streamline and improve its internal organization, and to develop
effective training programs for its personnel.
36.       The Government recognizes the difficult situation NPC faces and has
taken a number of steps to improve its implementation capability and to
enable the staff to cope with the large development program. Salary scales
and merit systems have been improved to make NPC more competitive with
private industry; specialized engineers have been recruited from other
government agencies for the newly organized nuclear and geothermal units and
basic agreement has been reached to transfer MECO's operating personnel as
well as its generating facilities to NPC. There have also been changes in
the composition of NPC's Board. Its members, including its chairman, now
consist of some of the most highly qualified technocrats in the country.
More recently, a Corporate Planning Staff and a Human Resources Development
Division have been set up in the head office. The Corporate Planning Staff
is responsible for advising NPC management on long range policy planning and
assisting the various departments in NPC in implementing long range plans
approved by NPC's management. The Human Resources Development Division is
responsible for assessing manpower requirements, developing a recruitment and
training program and establishing and managing a proposed NPC training



- 11 -
center. NPC is also planning to engage consultants associated with an
operating utility to review NPC's existing management and administrative
structure and assist in implementing the necessary reforms. While a signif-
icant beginning has been made, continuous vigorous efforts will be necessary
to enable NPC to meet its rapidly growing responsibilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The project was prepared by the National Power Corporation.    A Bank
mission appraised the project in March/April 1976. At the time of appraisal,
the project proposal included the construction and equipping of the Kalayaan
pumped - storage plant in Luzon. However, as the government subsequently
received a financing offer for this component from another source, the Bank
was requested to consider financing an enlarged transmission component which
is also urgently needed. Because of the proposed change in content and scope
of the project a follow-up appraisal took place in February 1977. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1977; the Philippines negotiating
team was led by Mr. Z. B. Baile, the Assistant General Manager of NPC and
Dr. Benito Legarda, the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank. The Staff Pro-
ject Report (No. 1552-PH) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Program and Project Objectives
38.       The proposed project has been designed to assist the Government in
implementing the very large power program needed for the Philippines' future
economic development and to assist NPC in its continuing efforts to improve
its institutional capacity. The requirements of the power sector were dis-
cussed in the Basic Economic Report (No. 1095a-PH) and have been the subject
of an active dialogue between the Bank and the Government. The main institu-
tional emphasis of the proposed project is reflected in substantial assistance
to NPC for improving its organization, training programs, and financial
policies and procedures.
39.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) expansion of the transmission system in Luzon;
(b) the first stage of a communication system and control center in
Luzon;
(c) support for NPC's training activities; and
(d) consultants' services for management improvement and a tariff
study.
40.       The transmission program supported under the project would include
about 1,360 km of transmission lines and substation capacity of 225 MVA, which
upon completion would extend NPC's transmission grid to cover almost all of
the island of Luzon. The 230 kV and 115 kV facilities to be provided under



- 12 -
the project would either strengthen existing systems which will be overloaded
in a few years or provide a bulk supply of power to areas which presently do
not have power supply but expect rapid load development mainly due to the
establishment of new industries. The 69 kV lines will extend NPC's power
supply to rural areas where NEA is promoting the rural electrification
program.
41.       The project would also provide for a communication network linking
all power plants and major substations in Luzon and a central control center
equipped with system monitoring, data acquisition and remote control faci-
lities. NPC presently does not have such a control system, which is unusual
for a system as large as the Luzon grid, and even a minor disturbance could
easily lead to a total system collapse. Upon completion, the control center
would continuously monitor all generating plants and major substations so
that the cost of system operation can be minimized, system security improved
and, in case of system disturbances, service restored with the minimum effect
on consumers.
42.       As discussed in paragraphs 35 and 36, NPC's present organization,
particularly that of the head office, was designed for the execution of a
small number of projects, and was suitable for the situation that existed
before 1973. The currently expanded role of NPC in the sector necessarily
requires a reorganization and redefinition of responsibilities to enable NPC
to meet the challenge of the next decade. In order to assist in this process,
NPC has agreed to engage: (a) a management advisory team, which would be
financed under the proposed loan, to assist NPC in organizing the head and
regional offices, redefining authority and responsibilities, and executing
day-to-day operations (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(b) by not later than December 31, 1977, a financial manager to plan and
manage NPC's finances and conduct negotiations with financial institutions
(Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The management advisory team
would include a qualified systems planning advisor who would assist the
manager of the Corporate Planning Department in analyzing the power system,
forecasting market demand, and optimizing the investment program. NPC
proposes to appoint consultants associated with an operating utility for such
advisory services. It is estimated that about 108 man-months of consultants'
services would be required, and the team would be appointed by September 30,
1977. It has also been agreed that NPC would implement a management improve-
ment program within twelve months after the completion of the consultant's
report (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       A manpower development study for NPC has been carried out by
the College of Public Administration of the University of the Philippines.
The study estimates that NPC will need to expand the number of its employees
from about 5,800 at present to more than 10,000 in 1985 and that training
will be needed in a wide variety of disciplines to support this rapid expan-
sion. The study recommended the immediate establishment of a comprehensive
training program, including the development of an NPC training school. To
meet the urgent need for improving managerial capability, funds are included
in the proposed loan to provide overseas training for 12 to 15 of the middle
management staff of NPC. They would be attached to appropriate foreign



- 13 -
utilities for about six months in order to learn utility management practices.
To help with NPC's longer term manpower requirements, provision has been made
in the project for the establishment of an NPC training center. Agreement has
been reached that NPC would review its training program once a year in
consultation with the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Electricity tariffs in the Philippines are complex and diversified,
reflecting the fragmented structure of the power sector which has precluded
a comprehensive tariff study. The recently initiated reorganization and
integration of the power sector, however, would now facilitate such a study,
which is needed to ascertain the sector's costs and tariffs on a marginal
cost basis and to enable the Government to make more informed decisions on its
pricing policy. The Government and NPC have agreed to initiate such a study
and to establish a unit within NPC which would be responsible for reviewing
NPC's tariffs on a continuing basis (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement);
the Government has agreed to consult the Bank on any significant changes in its
power sector tariff policies (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be about $92 million
(net of taxes), of which $58 million (or 63%) would be in foreign exchange.
The cost estimates include a physical contingency of 12% and an overall price
contingency equivalent to about 30% of base costs and physical contingency.
For local costs, price contingencies amount to 9% in 1977-79, and 8% there-
after; for foreign exchange costs, price contingencies amount to 7.5% in
1977-79, and 7% thereafter. The unit cost for overseas training of NPC
personnel was estimated at $25,000 per participant for six months. Unit
costs per man-month of consulting services were assumed at $6,000.
46.       The proposed loan of $58 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project. NPC would finance the balance of project
costs.
Project Execution
47.       The transmission component consists of a total of 50 small and simple
subprojects. NPC has gained sufficient experience with this type of work
through the implementation of the Fifth and Sixth Power Projects and would be
able to carry out the engineering and construction supervision of the trans-
mission project using its own staff. NIPC would appoint a project manager for
the project, who would report directly to the Luzon regional manager, in order
to ensure adequate coordination and timely completion of the numerous subpro-
jects. NPC would procure equipment and materials and would tender civil
works contracts which are expected to be carried out by local contractors.
Since NPC's experience in system control and communication is very limited, it
has agreed to retain qualified engineering consultants for detailed design,
procurement and construction supervision for that component.
48.       NPC would be responsible for retaining consultants for advisory
services and selecting candidates and arranging courses for overseas training.



- 14 -
The overseas training of NPC's middle management staff would be carried out
in four phases; each phase would be limited to a six-maonth course and 3 or 4
participants so that the program would not jeopardize NPC's daily business
activities.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       Equipment and materials financed by the proposed loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. Although the project consists of numerous subprojects,
contracts would be grouped into several packages large enough to attract
foreign bidders. For purposes of bid evaluation, qualified local manufac-
turers would receive a preference of 15% or the level of custom duties,
whichever is less. Civil works contracts for erection of transmission lines
and construction of communication and control center, as well as NPC's
training center, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank.
50.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of foreign cost of imported
goods, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods procured
under international competitive bidding, 15% for civil works expenditures, and
100% of the foreign exchange cost or 65% of the total cost of consultants
services and overseas training.
Financial Analysis
51.        To carry out its very large future program, NPC will need to expand
its asset base by ten times over the next eight years. To cover capital
expenditures of $5.8 billion (P 43.9 billion), NPC will borrow about $3.6 bil-
lion (P 26.9 bil]lion) abroad to cover foreign costs. Arrangements have already
been completed for about $1.7 billion (P 13 billion) of foreign financing;
accordingly, the prospects appear to be favorable for raising the additional
borrowing required. The balance of NPC's investment requirements of $2.2 bil-
lion (P 17 billion) would have to be provided from within the Philippines
either from NPC's internal cash generation or in the form of Government equity
contributions to NPC. On this basis, the debt/equity ratio would not rise
above 46/54, which would allow a margin for debt revaluation during the forecast
period if currency parities change.
52.       Since 1972 NPC has been attempting to earn reasonable revenues.
The rate of return on currently valued net fixed assets in operation rose
from 4.5% in 1971 to 6.4% in 1975; this is primarily the result of a series
of tariff increases. However, the higher than expected cost inflation has
prevented NPC from achieving the 8% rate of return previously agreed upon
with the Bank. In fact, the rate of return for 1976 is estimated to have
fallen to 3.5%. A 35% tariff increase was implemented in November 1976 and
as a result the rate of return is expected to rise to 5.3% in 1977.



- 15 -
53.       Substantial funds are required by NPC over the coming years which
must come from a combination of internal cash generation and Government
equity as NPC will need to use its borrowing capability primarily for foreign
rather than local borrowing. The rate of return should therefore be fixed in
the future at the highest level possible, taking into account consumers'
tariffs and the amount of budget resources that the Government can allocate
to the power sector. With an 8% rate of return on its annually revalued net
fixed assets in operation, NPC's internal cash generation would contribute
only 4% of the resources needed to finance total power investment program
proposed through 1983. Thus, the Government would need to contribute about
$2 billion in the form of equity contributions. It has been agreed to
continue the existing covenant which requires NPC to earn 8% rate of return.
However, in order to provide for a larger share of financing from internal
cash generation, the Government and NPC have also agreed to review with the
Bank, by not later than June 30, 1979, NPC's tariff levels and to determine a
schedule of tariff increases which would enable NPC to earn, at the earliest
feasible time, rates of return higher than 8% (Section 5.07 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
54.       The current debt control test agreed between NPC and the Bank pro-
vides that the borrower shall not incur debt without the agreement of the Bank
unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence, or
for a later 12-month period ended prior to such incurrence, shall have been at
least 1.3 times the maximum annual debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt (including the debt to be incurred). Because of the
increasing need to borrow to finance its capital program, NPC has had to seek
the Bank's agreement to incurring each new debt during the past few years.
A change was needed to provide covenants which would give adequate freedom
to NPC to manage its debt and still assure its major creditor, the Bank,
periodic opportunities to review NPC's investment and borrowing program.
Therefore, agreement was reached with NPC that: NPC would submit annually a
copy of its ten-year development program with the supporting financial plan
to the Bank for its review, and NPC would only undertake a major project,
investment, or acquisition (defined as those exceeding $50 million equivalent)
after having established in consultation with the Bank that such investment,
project, or asset: (a) forms part of a least cost development program for
NPC; (b) will be undertaken or acquired through means which will ensure a
reasonable cost; and (c) will be financed under a reasonable financing plan.
These covenants are expected to provide NPC greater flexibility than in the
past and at the same time allow for adequate discussion between NPC and the
Bank to reach agreement on a least-cost development program (Sections 5.04
and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, it has been agreed that
NPC's medium-term borrowings (i.e., debt maturing within 5 years) would be
limited to a total of $50 million equivalent (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
55.       NPC had undertaken in the agreement for Loan 1034-PH thao by
December 31, 1976, outstanding accounts for electricity supplied would not
exceed the previous three months revenues.   Efforts have been made to reduce
outstanding accounts and arrangements were made in 1973 with certain utili-
ties to amortize their accounts receivable over periods ranging from 36 to 60



- 16 -
months; on December 31, 1975, a balance of P 5.7 million remained from an
original amount of P 23.4 million to be amortized. Consumers' accounts
receivable at end-1975 were P 92.3 million, excluding the unamortized balance
remaining, or about four months' billings. As NPC was unable to disconnect
major consumers because of the effect such action would have on the towns and
areas served by delinquent utilities, NPC did not meet the covenant by end-1976.
Therefore, the relevant covenant has been repeated in the draft Loan Agreement
but the deadline date has been extended to December 31, 1978 (Section 5.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
56.       Electricity consumption in Luzon has shown a steady growth during
the last decade and the rate of household electrification increased from 35%
in 1970 to 46% in 1975. However, most of the people who enjoy electricity
live in the central part of Luzon including the Manila metropolitan area.
In the northern and southern part of the island only 15% of households have
an electricity supply provided largely by small, self-generating utilities
only for a limited time each day at high cost. To rectify the situation, NEA
has embarked on an ambitious program of total electrification, but its
success depends heavily on availability of NPC's power. With the completion
of the proposed project, almost the whole of Luzon except for few remote areas
will be covered by NPC's transmission grid and 40 additional large industries
are expected to be connected to the grid by 1981. Thus, the proposed project
would substantially contribute to the country's total electrification and
industrialization program by providing low cost, reliable power supplies
throughout Luzon.
57.       Each of the 50 transmission subprojects has been reviewed and is
either the least cost alternative or the only solution available. The basic
design has been standardized by NPC to minimize the engineering, construction
and maintenance costs and a significant reduction in unit cost is unlikely to
result from further design modifications without jeopardizing equipment
safety and reliable operation of the system.
58.       Since the proposed project is a timeslice of NPC's transmission
expansion program in Luzon and forms a part of the generation-transmission-
distribution chain of power supply, it is very difficult to quantify benefits
attributable to the project. Therefore, an internal rate of return calculation
has been made on the basis of NPC's overall investment program in Luzon for
the period 1977/82, including both generation and transmission. Efficiency
prices were used with all taxes and duties excluded and foreign exchange
costs shadow priced. Revenues based on the expected level of NPC's bulk
supply tariffs have been used for the benefit.
59.       The internal rate of return on NPC's program in Luzon for the
1977-82 period is estimated to be at least 10%. By using a discount rate of
12%, which is considered to approximate the opportunity cost of capital, the
average cost of power supply in Luzon was found to be 22.0 centavos per kWh,
about 6% over the expected average tariff of 20.7 centavos. This means that
the bulk tariffs designed to recover NPC's accounting cost would largely



- 17 -
recover the economic cost of power supply in future. The comprehensive
tariff study included in the proposed loan would examine in detail the sector
costs on a marginal cost basis and provide the Government with guidelines for
setting a rational power pricing policy for both bulk supply and retail sales.
60.       Recent policy decisions by the Government on the power sector have
clearly defined the objectives and strategies for the sector's development.
NPC has been given a major role and responsibility in the sector; the country's
economic development will to an important degree depend on NPC's future perform-
ance; however, NPC has not yet fully adjusted itself to the new situation.
Much needs to be done: technical capability needs to be rapidly expanded to
cope with the massive development program, financing needs to be secured,
planning improved, a comprehensive training program developed, and sound public
utility management introduced. The proposed loan would help NPC to improve its
overall institutional capability and also to extend power supplies to industries
and rural areas. Works involved in the physical component of the project are
ordinary ones, and project risks are no greater than can normally be expected
for this type of project. There may be some risks associated with the institu-
tional aspects of the project. However, these are expected to be minimized as
NPC has agreed on principles of managerial reform and has already taken various
steps in the right direction. To ensure achievement of the project's objectives,
particularly NPC's institution-building efforts, the Bank staff will maintain
close contact with NPC and the Government regarding the overall power program
and will closely review progress on the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Power
Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and thie text
of the draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1977



TABLE SA                                             Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)-------------------------
__- ----------                         ~~~~~PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL        300.0                                           HOOST RECENT
AGRIC.       fl6.3                         in9c6       19,0    ESTIMArE            THAILAND        FURKEr          KAOR E A ,WR. OF8
GNP PER CAPI TA ( USA)                      100         230.0       370. 0               210.0O       480.t20.
POUPU0LA T ION A ND V I TAL S T AT ISI IC S
POPULATION (RID-YR. NILLIMN                217. 4      36. 9       4 2. 5               36. 3        35.7         314
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           91. 0     12 3. 0     1 42. 0               71 .0        4 6 .0      3 19. 0
PER SO. AM. AGRICULTURAL. LAND             .       279.0        326.0& Ad                         61.0       1 320. 0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE I/THOU)              45. 1       4 4 .2      43. 8                44.-3        4 0.6        35. 0
AVfERAGE DEATH RA TE c/THOU)             17r. 9     1 3. 2      10.5                 13.7         1 4.4        11. 4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE ((THOU)              .        80.0        68.0 /a              80.0        14 5. 0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH     (YRSI      4 9.4       5 5. 6      58. 4                55 .5        5 4. 4
g,RQ55 REPROOUCIION RATE                 '.5L/a      3. 3        3. 3                 3 .2z        2.6 /&b      2. 6
POPULATION GROWTR RATE (I)
TOTIAL                                    3 .0       3 .0        2. 9                 3 .1         2 .5         2.3
URBAN                                     4 .0       4 .0        4. 0                 4 .9         1a.2         6. 4
URBAN POPULATION (1 Or TOIAL)              2 5. 3      271. 6     29.0                  15.0         31L.2        41L. 2
AGE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 T0 14 TEARS                          4 5 .1      4 5 .6      44.0  i4 5 .3                     41 .8        42 .1
IS TO 64 YEARS                          5 1 .6      5 1. 6      %                    52.          5 3 .9       5 4.6
65 TEARS AND DOVER                        2.?        2 .8        2.0                  3.-0         4 .3         3. 3
AGE UEPENOENCT RATI10                       0. 9        0. 9       0. 9                  0 .9        0. 9         0.9
ECUWORIC DEPLNDENCT RATTO                   1.3/b       1.5                   1.14/bL                 1.1I/c       1.4
FANMILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULAT IVE. T HOU).                    354.0      2812. 5               4 70.0
USERS TI or MFARR IED WOME N)              ..         2.0       1 9. 0               1 0.3         8.2         42.0
EMPLOYHENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANOD            10 103.0   123300 .0   1 42 00.0            167100.0     14 50 0.0/4  104300. 0
LABOnR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Z)            6 1 .0      55.0/a      56.0L 7c19. 0                     67.0        5./
IJNE4PLOTEO (Z OF LABOR FORCE)              6. 0        7.0         4. 0                   .4.0/e                 5.o0 /
I NC OmE ULISTIRIBUT7ION
UF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HY GHE ST  5t Or HOUSEHOLDS             28.8     .     .        2 4. 8                 ..         3 2.B         1:.1
HTC~HE ST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              5 6 .2                 54.0/4.                           60.6         4 4.5
LSWLST   zoo Or HOUSEHOLOS                4.     . 2             3. 9                              29           I
LOWEST   431 OF HUiUSEHOLDS              11. 9                  I 1. 9~                            9    r
OIbTnTIUTION OF LRNO OWNERSRIP
I  UNLO BY TOP IT? Or OWNERS                .            ..                              .         53 .0        28.0
I UWNE0 BY SH4ALLEST 100 DANERS              .                             . .....09                              2. 0
HEALIR AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHTSICIAN...                                      3220.0/             1 9 7 0.0    2 22 0.0     2 2100/
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON...                                2000.01k             6 650.0      18B0.0/Zg    1760.00 5j
POPUOLATION PER HOSPITAL BED             11I80 .0    850.0.                           8 50.0       49 0.0      1 92 0. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIAEnENTS)            853. 0     100.0        97.0g105.0                       110.0       10 3.0
PROTEIN (GRAMtS PER DAT)                4 4. 0      4 5.   4. 0 47:                  520         1.0          6.
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PUL,E            19.0O/c    2 2. 0                           11.0/a       22.01b       1 9 .0
TEATH RATE. I/THOU) AGES 1-4                9.DOa       9 .0        9.3 a15.Oa
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          91.0k      108.Oa       10.  %              82.0       ILI.OA.      104. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        26.0        48:0   ~    48. D[LIZ            16.0        2 8.0        41.0
YEARtS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                10. 0       1 0. 0      10. 0                12.0       I1. 0        12. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I DF SECONDARY)                        14.D If      A.DL/       9.U /&              14.3 /      14 .0        16. 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                      ...                  72. 07a              19. 0        5 5. 0Z      81.0
HOU SIN4G
PERSONS PER ROOR (AVERAGE)                   .          2.1          ...1.9                                       2.7
OCCUOPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Z)                         80. 0       76.0...                                      6 4 .0       So.o0/g
AC CESS TO ELE CTR ICIT Y
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    1 7. 0      23.0          ...                            4 1.0        50. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                          .        7 . 0                                       I. 8. 0      30. 0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             22.0        45.0       45.0                 78.0         89.0        126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               3.0         8.0        9.0                  5.0          4.0          2.0
ELECTRICITY (RWH/YR PER CAP)              100.0      235.0       315.0                124.0        247.0        301.0
NEWSPRINT (AG/YR PER CAP)                   1. 3        2.0         1. 5                1. 0         0.17         3. 4
--       - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - --  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



V   3      C      C          0
*    0*0       2..0t8.              <8
0                                         =0000000=   00  COO
K                   ti    X.2                  .0.0      p     -'-                                 a       "
S     -                                               0o               ->                 00.
I    '  J    o.oooo .0                2             '0  C -g
a                    A                                 0 C0    40000  000  00001                         -             0.  00          -
t -                   -                          z:U:ttt U:PU-                        O:008.Obl ;t                B8 A        8    
        a-   I                               2-      KxC8C                                                      00=
-   :1                                    c...                  CC                  Ett8Og     g;                    
': Ct0         V0C0-<                          - C           &- gg-
0000005'  -0.000.  CC  OCo0               0"  00Z2C  2             - 0.0o-0-C
h. <.                                              'C 0.0.C -                                                    -
A                          I    C  *40-  "3        :H     2V                                                   j           002
-C                        2          00       0.                C                   1t                 *8':. 00 .                                    A.0
I                01                                  :80                                '00     C0..0CC0000000
001          1   H                  10.0                       9C                  00.0                              8-  Csz<                                   2
-                           C                         00.0          -   C--C--CO                                0,                        00;
'0                -         j                                                       %Cr        -z8t0sg-          00-C           :ff'        7'
'a                                                    1                                                50020)            .Cgff'
I                                     COO    COOO0COC      8.3ttOO82     8   C8                                    8t 2.
0hZ                                                                                                                           0                  -
C                                     0                                          IS
COo.                                                  ooooo,  ,.  C00
o2t0 VC  0000000.0<0    C0-O0.0     <0' "".0000000,.)-..
.jo8ao
,                             i                 00000000o             ai&               - '0 - CC                 g<      0'
*i      4!!        -                                                                                 '-'0  0"" 0.0 ozi  a   
""<0-   -    CoO  C            8t88 -00.e . CfloLoC
005 -               00  00   0               0)000!                                                                   00.000
.1                                         '0 '000 CC  Ce  COo, 0.-
no?                                           a;-2x:<88..8<8        8-28":                                  -         C8
2                                   0CC-C--- OCO                I               0"00.     CC           
tS.0OC0O0 00  0-CoCO   CCC         05          OCo-CC-          4     00000                             1
CC                   0,0cC0o     0000.0.-os 01008.03.o  A  0000CC  000.00  CO  I OO"<  8.
oo.<ogtCC     00.00 .0            ..C.oo.o             .-
:Ia2b>.-C8      -               -;A0  -0.o     -                        2.toa0.ro        p
.8   zix.0              CCO"oo 8.8       C0        -8
-0.00.0--CC        :::i:=:.       :00. C    o ooZt"S        ;0
00000.00  0)0.0. o,.t.  28  0000000 00  0.ooj
CCC0.C    CO  0CC      C8C                                                                    2
'a r                                                                      007<g
lo  C  0gA8t.0zCo<i0               CCtC      822S.u888
oTh                          ZZZC<C00         CC        C   8CTh&O                  I         500
.0;.zf-0'0"''o                                   I                     HI      Jo
0'                          F                                   I          COO             F               00CC  C.O..0O                           C
g                       00,OCOCC.0COO,orooco.oozu                        0'' o'        Ct 8          j
-                             -                   oj                                       00"..C Coo                         0          lCo.ooOoC
00       -      .ROO                                     00.0       0000C0.0  0000.0 ooo.o      -o.o-,            .o.2'2. 2182o2 ' 82'228          I' OoIInIo
.2  2.                        '   I                       S                                                    >.  CO  :         5       C     0      0!       0
 11                                                                                                  I                    .0-
I                                       0                  00
<3                         0   .2;                                 "0.000       - <CC    C   0   U           0         CC
0          0  C                        -C          0-.
832.!!
C           .1.0      -0-      0<   C 0-Co.--      --      C 10     C       0
-   I   1t &                                                                                             C          --         ..
00  -    U- IC                00  0                0      -.  L.)           C    C"             0 C - CO.     C   0   000000        C"  0.0CC
COo -b              oc  C                 0                    0 C                      -'0. 0 -C  -   .C.C  0  0 000        0000.
0'  0.    -   0                                                                                                -                     C
C     0   C C     0-C  *... 0 0.0 COo            '""C  0 CO
o4Ij'.  I                            0.0          .0...cr                                  C                          200'KCI
CO   o-*Co      .-o8        C      C
-'                   -.                                                             000                                          C 000    '  2
05- -                                           CogO
C4                0   00            0.  0       C   0000   <C   0C   0                                      z38:   ::
N                                                                                                  '-   C
0,                               CCCO. 0.      0.0    0     00             00   00     OC.-.0.o    -0    C     CC    C
00.0                00                     <00000.0.0                     0000oC  0 ..,i  C 0)C0o,..o       C    00.00                    . CC
CC  C 0     0-               00.-C  CC  0.0. 0)0               'C
00.     C.     00  0 C     CC.            0 0      0000.00.0         008
         '                                         0                                                            A
*                                                      <80    oC     -   0-0      C              0CC  --0<000            C-  0C                  0. -t    0    0.00
0   0                 .4                         0     0-00    C      01                     0  0       .0  C-C   CO                8     C2C             0
-                                        CO    CC' 8                                   0   CCC
'.       a0                                                                                                                 CC  000000000   CO
2.  8   1       0051 9    0 CC                                                      0000<                       CCC                  0.0000               0
C.C    o000.00   3                                              t 2'
Oo,C                  C                                              0.C  ICC   0            0 C<   0
 :; .2I   t: jA                                                                            C .00
- 009           .0    S,-oo                                                   CC          .1CC    C    0'-' CCC                .c2   C     88
          -     Cl-U  COO  5                                                  '.0000   C00000CCCCC                                          0
-0go             S                                                                                      8
S    K  a-   as                                                       "              -   00CC                CC  0 -   :1:8:::             a 2.08208  0""        8.
05-C  .0                                                                  .ooo  Coo                                                 0.0k.C
00                                                           COO    <C                                   -tOO   COO                        0               j
I                                            CCCCC   0'C
C0                           00CC   QC                           0805
:00      I                          2                                            ""C   00
000                           000-OCCo          OjO 004.00:              C800   0                          .00C   Coo-'     2
Li                                                                                                8 0
C                                                I                 +000001- o:L-.-o:gj              CCCI                          2                ""C
3$    0.000.0.2.-                      02:-CC-'                                  0
1                                      000                00.0  000
0                         0000CC      8 0-0000                    *<:
0000C80 0000.10.00
0.o CC 0-gCOo0oCo0o. 1                <..o-             01
fCCo <      'o,ao I                     CC                .00C<     k1     CC
100.                       1  8                             5      5    00
j                                                                          CCjCCCCo01 CC00000-<
at                                                                   I                                             I               0,000.0000=
*,.                                                   <.1-V=             0,00010                       I          1,                                    - o     .0
   1                                                                                                                               -                           0.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million        x             1965-70    1970-75    1976
GNP at Market Prices                     17,515      100.0               5.7       6.3      6.3
Gross Domestic Investment                 5,408       30.9               1.6      12.5      3.7
Gross National Saving                     4,382       25.0               3.6       7.6     -2.0
Current Account Balance                 -1,026        -5.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                     3,105       17.7               4.5       2.2     17.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                    4,201        24.0               7.2       6.5      0.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force            V.A. per worker
US$ million        %            Million       %             US$        X
Agriculture                         4,606        29.0              7.8     51.6              591     56,2
Industry                            5,323        33.5             2.2      14.6           2,420     230.0
Services                            5,961        37.5             4.5      29.8           1,325     126.0
Unemployed                             .           .              0.6       4.0              .      _
Total/Average                    15,890       100.0            15.1     100.0           1,052     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(Million)          % of GDP           (Pesos million)         X of GDP
197         197       196 -7               1975         1975       1973-75
Current Receipts                ..           ..        ..              16,838         14.6        14.0
Current Expenditure                               ..                   14,773         12.8        11.0
Current Surplus                 ..           ..        ..               2,065          1.8         3.0
Capital Expenditures            ..           ..        ..               3,425          3.0         2.8
External Assistance (net)       ..          ..         ..                 287          0.2         0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                          9,001    10,325     11,872    14,021     16,773    19,254
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   3,263     3,087      2,994     2,860      3,462     6,296
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  8,442     9,688     11,646    15,464    23,098     26,977
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.1      20.4       20.9      19.6       16.8      16.7
General Price Index (1965    100)              137.7     i59.3      175.4     218.4      337.5     364.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index!                            23.6      15.7       10.0      24.6       54.5       8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    -2.4      -5.4       -3.0      -4.5       21.0     181.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   17.2      14.8       20.2      32.8       49.4      16.8
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                      US$ million       X
(USS million)
Exports of Goods, NFS             3,357   2,954   3,105       Coconut Products                    539         21.5
Imports of Goods, NFS             3 782   4,036   4,201       Sugar Products                      607         24.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)         -425  -1,082  -1,096       Forest Products                     289         11.6
Mineral Products                    437         17.5
Interest Payments (net)             -55    -110    -161       Fruits & Other Agric. Products      119          4.7
Workers' Remittances                         72      106      Other Manufactures                  511         20.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                -121    -118         Total                           2,502        100.0
Net Transfers                       271     318     243
Balance on Current Account         -210    -923  -1,026
Direct Foreign Investment            59     125      94     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975 /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                     402     677     883                                                US$ million
Amortization                      339     320     355
Subtotal                         63     357     528       Public Debt, including Guaranteed            1,554
Capital Grants                                                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  1,417
Other Capital (net) /a              373     547      581       Total Outstanding and Disbursed              2,971
Other Items n.e.i. /b                 4    -182    -109
Ilcrease in Reserves (+)            289     -76      68     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /f
Gross Reserves (end year) /c      1,978    1,360   1,640                                                      X
Inter. Reserves (end year) /d     1,165    1,089   1,157
Public Debt, including Guaranteed             7.7
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                    8.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                     Total Outstanding and Disbursed              16.6
Imports of Goods, NFS             3,782   4,036    4,201
of which:  Petroleum              653      710     800     IBRD/IDA LENDING, April 30, 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  IBRD         IDA
1965-69        1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed           343.1     27.7
US5 1.00 = Ps.          3.92           6.43                    Undisbursed                        717.8      4.5
PS. 1.00 = US$          0.26           0.16                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,060.9      32.2
April 1972-July 1975       Since July 1975
US$ 1.00 = Ps. 6.78        US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15        Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
/b  Errors and omissions.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
Id Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/e  Excludes short-term debt and I1fF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/f Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of April 30, 1977 /1
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts (US$ millions)_
Number     Year       Borrower        Purpose            Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credics fully disbursed           218.5     19.5
637-PH    19t9     Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation        34.0               0.5
720-PH1   1971                       Rice Processing
".            and Storage      14.3               6.8
809-PH    1972     National Power
Corporation      Power             22.0               7.3
349-PHl   1973     Republic of the
Philippines      Education II               12.7      4.5
891-PH    1973           "           Fisheries          11.6               5.2
939-PH    1973           "           Ports               6.1               4.6
950-PH    1973           "           Second Highways    68.0              23.2
984-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5               8.3
998-PH    1974           "           DFC-DBP I          50.0              10.5
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power             61.0              34.5
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population        25.0              23.0
1048-PH    1974           "           Shipping           20.0              16.8
1052-PH    1974     Philippine
National Bank    DFC                30.0             22.8
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the    Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation       17.0             15.7
1102-PH    1975                       Rural
Development      25.0              24.6
1120-PH    1975                       Small and Medium
Industries       30.0              10.3
1154-PH    1976                       14agat
"6             Irrigation      42.0              40.4
1190-PH    1976           "           DFC-DBP II         75.0              75.0
1224-T-PH  1976           "           Education III      25.0              22.6
1225-PH     1976          "           Livestock II       20.5              16.7
1227-PH    1976           "           Chico Irrigation   50.0              50.0
1272-T-PH  1976                       Manila Urban       10.0              10.0
1282-PH    1976                       Manila Urban       22.0              22.0
1269-PH    1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5              11.5
1270-PH    1976                       Second Fisheries   12.0              12.0
1353-PH    1977           "           Third Highways     95.0              95.0
1367-PH    1977           "           Jalaur Irrigation 15.0               15.0
1374-PH /2 1977           "           Fourth Education   25.0              25.0
1399-PH /2 1977     Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines    Credit          36.5              36.5
1414-PH /2 1977    Republic of the    National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0             50.0
1415-PH /2 1977           "           Provincial Cities
Water Supply     23.0             23.0
Total                                         1,154.5    32.2    722.3
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                       93.6       -
Total now outstanding                         1,060.9    32.2
Amount sold                      16.8
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                12.6             4.2       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                               1,056.7    32.2
Total undisbursed                               717.8     4.5    722.3
/1 The Executive Directors approved a loan of $15 million for the Second Rural
Development (Land Settlement) Project on May 17, 1977.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                     Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity    Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                               15.0      4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                       8.0       -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                 -     4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone company                          4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Mlanufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                              -      2.2      2.2
1971          Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6.2      1.8      8.0
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0        -     15.0
1973          Victorias Cnemical Corporation               1.9     0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation        1.5        -      1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.     1.5     0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2        -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0        -      7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                   2.6     0.2       2.8
Total gross commitments                     65.2     13.8     79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                       20.4     12.0     32.4
Total commitments now held by IFC           44.8      1.8     46.6
Undisbursed                                  0.6        -      0.6



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods,
but construction has progressed satisfactorily since then. All works will
be substantially completed and the Loan fully disbursed by the Closing Date
of June 30, 1977. Project costs have increased 72% over appraisal estimates,
largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of successive devaluations
of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which accounted for about one-
quarter of the increase in costs). However, as a result of the close coordi-
nation established between irrigation and agricultural support services, the
project is expected to reach full development sooner than was anticipated at
the time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of
the dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and
nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a
considerable increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a
result the estimated rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's MIemorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojects,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date has
been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809     Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million
Credit No. 296 Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be commissioned shortly. The erec-
tion of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to unfavorable
weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be completed in
the first half of 1977. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before
the Closing Date, which has been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978.
A tariff increase was approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to
enable NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed
assets in operation.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Ilillion Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
dams because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into the Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second
diversion dam was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the
area served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in the
awarding of contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids
from more local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being
done by Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be
added benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water
for irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to
fall from the 17% estimated at the time of appraisal to 14%. The credit has
been fully disbursed and disbursement on the loan has now begun.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 998     Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming:
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be completed
before the closing date.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power:  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. It is now expected that this part of the project will be completed
by the end of 1978, i.e. one year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions
in rural areas. The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore, the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979 is being considered.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 891     Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. The contractors are making efforts to
overcome the difficulties. By February 1977, work was 17% completed in
General Santos, whereas in Cagayan de Oro progress has so far mainly been
in mobilization and site preparation. The present estimated total project
cost is 75% higher than the appraisal estimate due to worldwide price
increases. However, foreign exchange costs are lower than appraisal esti-
mates as the contractors are locally based. Total traffic at the project
ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a reasonable financial rate
of return is being earned.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Overall construction progress is satisfactory with about 80% of
the works completed. However, progress on one of the national roads is
not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project completion by about
12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-financed road feasi-
bility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed engineering for
the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in August 1976.
Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project is underway
and expected to be completed by August 1977. The total cost of the project
has risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of
inflation following the oil price increase in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048   Interisland Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of March 31, 1977, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
Force account work on the irrigation component is about 38% completed, but
contract construction which will amount to 80% of the total work has only
started. However, all major civil works contracts are now awarded and
remaining work is all under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro.   This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and construction has
begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan Assistance Program,
however, there was little progress under the other programs because of
inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new programs. Adequate
1977 budgets have been approved and all work is now expected to proceed
rapidly.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1190    Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and
relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve months have recently
improved. As of April 11, 1977, commitments for subloans totaling $7.7 mil-
lion had been made. The Executive Directors approved a proposal to
reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries on
February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977.
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1225    Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Initial progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269    Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Mlillion Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1270    Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Tendering is
underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan,
secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor sewer for Tondo.
Loan No. 1353    Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan became effective on
March 30, 1977.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1374    Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is for agricultural education and training. It
includes assistance for: -specialized facilities for forestry, animal science,
and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural college in the Visayas; and
training for extension workers and farmer leaders. The loan is not yet effec-
tive.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Central Bank will relend $35.7 million of the proceeds of the
Loan to participating banks for relending to farmers, fishermen and rural
entrepreneurs to finance investments in farm mechanization, light transpor-
tation, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale livestock development, and
cottage-scale agro-industries. The balance of the proceeds of the Loan will
be used to finance vehicles, studies and staff training, and an agricultural
machinery testing project.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 hectares and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 hec-
tares of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1415    Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
This loan will finance (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities, (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities, and (c) feasibility studies for Manila
sewerage. The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No.         Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June    , 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. This loan was approved by
the Executive Directors on May 17, 1977 and is expected to be signed in early
June.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to identify and prepare the project:
18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
National Power Corporation (NPC).
(c) Initiation of feasibility study:
Control Center, July 1975
Transmission Report by NPC, October 1976
Completion of feasibility study:
Control Center, July 1976
Transmission Report by NPC, November 1976
Formal Government request for Bank financing:
September 1975, Original Project
January 1977, Revised Project
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 19, 1976
Departure of Follow-up Appraisal Mission: January 29, 1977
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 20, 1977.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: Early September, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank mission will visit Manila in July, 1977 to review
progress toward meeting the conditions of effectiveness and
in project implementation;
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) NPC would appoint a qualified and experienced financial
manager by not later than December 31, 1977 (para. 42);
(b) NPC would appoint by September 30, 1977, a management advisory
team, including a qualified systems planning advisor, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank and would implement
management improvements recommended by the team, in consulta-
tion with the Bank by not later than 12 months after such
recommendations have been made (para. 42);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) the Government and NPC would carry out a tariff study of the
power sector and would consult the Bank on changes in power
sector tariff policy (para. 43);
(d)  NPC would charge tariffs sufficient to earn a rate of return on
its net fixed assets in operation revalued annually of 8% in 1978
and thereafter; by not later than June 30, 1979, NPC would review
its tariffs with the Bank with a view to determining a schedule
of tariff increases which would enable NPC to earn rates of
return higher than 8% at the earliest feasible time (para. 53);
(e) NPC would submit at least once a year a copy of its ten-year
development program with the supporting financial plan to the
Bank for review (para. 54);
(f) NPC would not undertake any major project, make any major invest-
ment, nor acquire any major asset (defined as exceeding US$50.0
million equivalent) without first having obtained the agreement
of the Bank that such investment, project, or asset (i) form
part of the least cost development program; (ii) would be under-
taken or acquired through means which will ensure a reasonable
cost; (iii) would be financed under a reasonable financing plan
(para. 54);
(g) NPC's medium-term borrowings would be limited to $50 million
in aggregate (para. 54);
(h) action would be taken to reduce consumers accounts outstanding
so that they will aggregate to less than 3 months billing by
December 31, 1978 (para. 55).






IBRO 3562R3
1200                             D2          p/A22| |                                  .   .     MARCH 1977
2.,:kfC,l cal,rI l                                    LUZON
Claveria a                                                            hi1Thpiov $
Aparri
OLaoag                                   V),
,r, w ;i :i                                 i(                                             VISA YAS <R
180       4
MINDANAO
Vigan o   OBangued                  4oTuguegarao  t                                _
jNARiVACAN              0 ,t,gJOTabuk I                                               1240
f  LUBJUAGANt 2/            I p
/LUS  Z    0  |N   O llagan
,~4n ot oc                        PalananO /
f /            Lagawe _       u    
I~~~~~~NI
)   // SANTL,GO/
San Fernando           -LO   roN
g! /AMBUKLAO 2soL NO/
fa   1 BECKEL 75M  _ - -  Bayombong
IaJM3 W    e 7r  BINGA/ ,"?  Casiguran 0           PHILIPPINES
SN MANUEL                                          LUZON      GRID
16      LingayenO                                                       POWER      PLANT     AND                6
ANTABANGANv TRANSMISSION                                   SYSTEM
Ber
STA.CRUZ                  MASIWAY                                          TRANSMISSION
POWER PLANTS SUBSTATIONS  LINES
Tb aA                                                            -     EXISTING NPC
rJ \   OT-rl. FCabonatuan  (                                           EXISTING MECO
S \   VOA tk  Z  2\ CABANATUAN                     El        AON-GOING IBRD PROJECT
M                    - - - ON-GOING OTHER PROJECT
Ange eso                                                              -     PROPOSED PROJECT
\ \     ~MEXI   c;     
12 MW                  ~~   ~~~~~~   ~~0 20  40  60  80  100
(LNGP         PRADS          SAPANGPA L AY
OLO A                          P-ptXSAPANG PALAY k  \ 0;                 KILOMETERS
<. SLNA K   S0  20  40  0
NUCLEARt   1,   MANILA            A                                    MILES
BATAAN            AR  E        LArAAN
No.2 150-    BINAN        ,'   CALIRAYA
1f KBIAN           LIR YA                     LAB \Da\c 
140s           Tagay    1LBA TANGAS            UMAUCA                                                 14a  0 \
-140           CAUAYANN  S's'
.                2.4MW  ;
1200                                              122/                                          'N  1240






IBRO 3563R3
1200                                               1         1220                                              _             MAY 1977
L UZONI
SOUTH CHINA     I   PHIL /PPINE SEA
a            ~~~~AbaIngO, >{               >a;, 
D Gonzaga
Laoag                        'LMI0                                                                V/SA YAS
180                                                                         ~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18  (I
< /                       '  O 8~~~~~aggao                                      ,Y'             3.,  , 
CasinsingarU
PiatD
S.Ian a                                                   :-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINDANAO
Bangued                Toglana    Tuguegara,                                                          'D
BantaV           0 Lic_an                 / \ 
0 Manabo              TabukA      Q) Capsa     ,
San Esteban
Bontoc
o Roxas
Guinaypog "0   o Lagawe         \       o llagan
/ mburayan                           -   "Caayn
Bacnutan  _anago                                                                       PHILIPPINES
San Fernando;tnSgauang  / bk9    L  U   Z   0                                 LUZON      GRID      11 5KV    AND
iAnga            SaIuday3 uJones                     69KV TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Agno        Philex                                  .(n         SUBSTATIONS 'I AAN4MISSION LINkS
Vk   11                             /              *                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING llSKV
2           Sn anuelWt
1 N90  i    CaTayo9                                                               0                     EXISTING  69KV                  160
5NEA         I   Urdanot Tayog                                                                          ON-GOING 115KV IBRD PROJECT
San Carlos' Cran   a-~ren        Pa.tabangan                              0           -     -   ON-GOING 69KV IBRD PROJECT
Santa CruzF    Baya bango             -                                                                    PROPOSED 115KV IBRD PROJECT
Paniqui          un        Bale                               *                      PROPOSED 69KV IBRD PROJECT
Tarlac                Bongabon                              0                      OTHER 69KV PROJECT
Salaza                                                          i
(NEA)         Cot   VOA  ISta. Rosa    r_
Concepni on'
Botolan        /   ngeles                                       j
Clark Pield   Sant ACa(NEA)
San Fernando  n                                                    0Ale  0      500                       150
Basa A. Bas       Czna Angat                                                        KILOMETERS
San Anto 0Aali                       Bant        /
Herm.sa              If aa
BogacS                  Manila Guecon C I
Port Del Sol       Gar        Bar/s
Mari      Rosaroi
Trece            S   ba     Caliraya                     r       Pale
Ternate      en           *DaL
sgMendee                                                         k+ SDoeS
540                         Nan ?               Tanauan            1tim4o Tagkawayan                                                           4 14e
B  Tan                  Gomac      Hon'~~~~~~~~~~TagkawSayJos
Pitogo (NEAl   '-N/                   C~~~~~~~~~~ararmoon
Eibrnanano
Tiwi
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ia Plan .,                                           igoPln 7
LegaspiO
Putpaob     Sorsogon
12X0                }                   S                   122                                     -        O4GbaiO  l24



