CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 146o PH
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
Dated August 9, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordan-!e with the provisiuns of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accor-
dance with the nrovisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
-nromntly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum cn the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-ttnths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. Without any restriction or limitation upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, in carrying out
Part A of the Project the Borrower shall establish and maintain
a project unit directly responsible to the Borrower's regional
manager in Luzon.
Section 3.03. (a) in order to assist the Borrower in the
preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents, in the
evaluation of bids and in the supervision of the civil works and
of the installation of equipment included in Part B of the Project,
and in carrying out Part D (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ engineering and management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(i) appoint the consultants referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section to carry out Part D (1) of the
Project by not later than September 30, 1977; and


﻿- 6 -
(ii) implement the recommendations of the said
consultants which are acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower, not later than twelve months
after the said consultants have furnished their
final report to the Borrower.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part D (2) of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 30, 1977, or such
other date as the Bank shall agree, establish and staff a special
unit in its corporate planning staff, whose composition, powers
and organization shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) if,
in the opinion of the Bank and the Borrower, it is deemed necessary,
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower, to assist the said unit in carrying out Part D (2) of the
Project.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) establish a training center by December 31,
1979; (ii) prepare and submit to the Bank during the third quarter
of each of its fiscal years a detailed implementation schedule of
the training program to be undertaken by the Borrower during the
following fiscal year; and (iii) review with the Bank during the
first quarter of each of its fiscal years the implementation of
its annual training program during the preceeding fiscal year.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the


﻿place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B of
the Project, ensure that: (i) the final selection of the works
to be undertaken; (ii) the final engineering designs of such
works; and (iii) the arrangements for implementing such works,
are all agreed to by the Bank in consultation with the Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations
of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times carry on
its operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development
of its power system and maintain its financial position in accor-
dance with sound engineering, financial, administrative and pub-
lc utility practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and from time to time make
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with
sound engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not, without the consent
of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any
of its properties or assets which shall be required for the effi-
cipnt carrying out of its business, including the carrying out
of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations, including the Project, and shall, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other
rights, as may be necessary or useful for the construction and
operation of the Project and the conduct of its business.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in
part with the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all liens.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained apnropriate
accounting Dractices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
exnenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with anDronriate auditing princioles consistently ap-
nlied. by indenendent auditors acceDtable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
co-nes of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the renort of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
reauest.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt excent as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writinq.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, excent as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the Drincinal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the I -egoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such pronerty; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not
later than October 31 in every year, for its colTments, its devel-
onment program for the following ten years together with the fi-
nancial plan supporting such program.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) prior to undertaking or executing any major oroject,
making any major investment or acquiring any major asset for its
own account or the account of any other party, the Borrower shall
first satisfy the Bank that such investment, project or asset: (i)
forms part of a least cost development program for the Borrower;
(ii) will be undertaken or acauired throuah means designed to en-
sure a reasonable cost; and (iii) will be financed under a financ-
ing plan which shall be reasonable in relation to the Borrower's
overall financial position.


﻿- 13 -
(b) For the purpose of this Section, the terms "major proj-
ect", "major investment" or "major asset" mean any project, in-
vestment or asset involving an expenditure of more than the equiva-
lent of $50,000,000.
Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes that except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the total of the Borrower's short
and medium term debt outstanding shall not exceed the equivalent
of $50,000,000 at any time..
(b) For the purpose of this Section, the term "short and
medium term debt" means all indebtedness of the Borrower maturing
on demand or less than five years from the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(c) For the purpose of this Section, debt shall be deemed
to be incurred on the date the agreement providing for such debt
shall be entered into, and, in the case of a guarantee, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee shall be entered
into.
(d) Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall be neces-
sary to value in terms of Philippine currency debt payable in
another currency or the amount set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevail-
ing lawful rate of exchange at the time of such valuation.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to set and maintain
its tariffs at such a level as may be necessary to provide revenue


﻿- 14-
sufficient to produce an annual rate of return on the value of the
Borrower's net fixed assets in operation of not less than 8% in
fiscal year 1978 and thereafter.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
consult with the Bank not later than June 30, 1970 to determine a
schedule which would permit the Borrower to produce at the earliest
feasible time annual rates of return higher than eight per cent
on the value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation.
(c) I- the purpose of this Section:
(1) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the operating income for the year in ques-
tion to the average of the value of the net fixed
assets of the Borrower in operation at the begin-
ning and at the end of each year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
such value shall be updated annually on the basis
of appropriate indices acceptable to the Bank and
revalued once every four years or more frequently
in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) The term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between:


﻿- 15 -
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the Bor-
rower's services; and
(B) the operating and administration expenses (in-
cluding taxes, if any), adequate maintenance
and depreciation but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps
to collect its unpaid accounts for electricity supplied so as to
reduce the unpaid accounts as of December 31, 1978, and annually
thereafter, to an amount equivalent to not more than the amount
billed in resDect of the last three months of the year in question.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall agree, establish
the position of financial manager of the Borrower directly respon-
sible to the Borrower's general manager and employ a qualified
and exnerienced financial manager in the said position; and (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the quali-
fication and experience of the candidate before making any desig-
nation to such position before the Closing Date.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any provision of Republic Act No. 6395 of the Guarantor,
as amended as of the date of this Agreement, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated so as to affect ad-
versely the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations
under this Agreement; and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation of the Borrower under any loan agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination; Amendment of
Other Agreements
Section 7.01. The date November 7, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. (a) The Loan Agreement (Fifth Power Project)
between the Borrower and the Bank dated April 3, 1972 as amended
by Section 7.02 of the Loan Agreement (Sixth Power Project) between'
the Bank and the Borrower dated July 31, 1974, is further amended
as follows:
(i) Section 5.05 thereof, as amended, is further
amended to read as Section 5.07 of this
Agreement;
(ii) Section 5.04 thereof is amended to read as
Sections 5.04, 5.05 and 5.06 of this Agreement;
and
(iii) Section 5.07 thereof, as amended, is further
amended to read Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
(b) The Loan Agreement (Sixth Power Project) between the
Borrower and the Bank dated July 31, 1974 is amended as follows:


﻿- 18 -
(i) Section 5.04 thereof is amended to read as Sections
5.04, 5.05 and 5.06 of this Agreement;
(ii) Section 5.05 thereof is amended to read as Section
5.07 of this Agreement; and
(iii) Section 5.06 thereof is amended to read as Section
5.08 of this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the'Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
National Power CorDoration
161 Bonifacio Drive
Port Area, Manila
PhiliDpines
Cable address:                Telex:
NAPOCOR                       7420120
Manila


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
By /s/ Conrado del Rosario
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and mate-        36,600,000
rials under Parts A,
B and C of the Project
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
procured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(2) Civil works under           2,800,000         15%
Parts A, B and C of
the Project
(3) Consultants' services       2,100,000         100% of foreign
and overseas training                        expenditures
or 65%
(4) Unallocated                16,500,000
TOTAL      58,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means exTenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in resnect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragrath 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (i) expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (ii) expenditures in respect of Part
B of the Project (except for consultants' services) until the Bank
has agreed to the proposals to be submitted to it by the Borrower
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 23 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Transmission system expansion
Construction of about 1,400 kilometers of transmission
lines and construction of substations with a total
capacity of 225 MVA, all on the island of Luzon.
Part B:   Control center
Construction and equipment of a communication network
and control facilities for the Borrower's Luzon grid.
Part C:   Training
1.   A comprehensive training program aimed at improving
the capability of the Borrower's staff in all fields
and skills of its activities, including the estab-
lishment of a training center.
2.   A program of overseas fellowships for about 15
middle management staff of the Borrower.


﻿- 25 -
Part D:   Technical assistance and study
1.   Tha utilization of technical assistance to carry
out a program to improve the management of the
Borrower, including the services of a systems
planning adviser to assist the Borrover's cor-
porate planning department.
2.   A comprehensive tariff study of the power sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1982
through   February 1, 1997                    1,870,000
On August 1, 1997                                  1,900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.45%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under the Borrower's normal
procedures for such contracts.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 29 -
2.   Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a mar-
gin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the follow-
ing provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) GrouD B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to b  imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 30 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents


﻿- 31 -
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of


﻿- 32 -
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


