CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 146o PH
Guarantee Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 9, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and National Power Corporation (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million dollars
($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes, that
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Guarantor
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(d) The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of its
political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent that


﻿-5-
the Guarantor is unable within the limits of the laws in force in
its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Guarantor
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall take or cause to be
taken all necessary action to enable the Borrower to set and main-
tain rates at such levels as shall be necessary to meet the re-
quirements of Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.
(b) To help ensure fulfillment of the obligations set forth
in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall, at the
request of the Bank, review, and consult with the Bank on, all
matters relating to tariff policy in the power sector and shall
participate in the consultations set forth in Section 5.07 (b) of
the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such action as is
necessary to ensure that in carrying out the tariff study of the
power sector forming Part D (2) of the Project, the Borrower will
have access to all data and information necessary or useful to
such study.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction on the
Borrower's obligations under Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement,
the Guarantor shall review the auditing procedures relating to the


﻿-6-
Borrower and implement, in agreement with the Bank, a program to
improve the said procedures by not later than September 30, 1978,
or such other date as the Bank shall agree.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


