Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8011
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
AUGUST 7, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Asia Region
Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CTB      -   C-ylon Transport Board
GOSL     -   Goverrment of Sri Lanka
IDA      -   International Development Association
MOT      -  Ministry of Transport
PCR      -   Project Completion Report
PR       -   President's Report
RTBs     -   Regional Transport Boards
SAR      -   Staff Appraisal Report
SLCTB    -   Sri Lanka Central Transport Board



TM WORLD BANK                  FOR OFICIAL UU ONy
WashMton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Opvauim d vaetiun
August 7, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sri Tanka Road Passenger
Transport Project (Credit 994-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Road Passenger Transport Project
(Credit 994-CE)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attacnment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the performance
of their offlcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without Word Dank anthorimzs4L



*   OR OMCIL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pas. No.
PREF     ACE                     .....           ....     .............
BAIC DATA SHEET ....... ...                      ..           ......too..          it
EVALUATION SteiiARY               ...................              .... ...to.      v
I. INTRODUCTION ...... ........ .                                                       1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APP_AISAL ............                       2
Origin ...............                     ....*.*.*...**..*...                     I
Preparation and Appraisal . ..            ............ .        ......              3
Project Objectives ..........   ..           ........    .  .*.e                    4
Project Description .........4...... 0  ..*                                         4
II:.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................              .. ....              5
Procurement of Buses            ..........  ......                                  5
Improvement of Depot Maintenance and Operations ............                        7
Project Costs .................... ,+.............. ...........                     a
Finatcial Sources ..........................................                        9
Performance of Consultants  .......    .            ...........................   10
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE ........... .. ........................... .                 11
The Bus Fleet ..........................................................          11
Bus Operations              ...................... .,...                          12
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .......................................                      13
Fares .................                                            ......         13
Financial Results of the RTBs          .      .......................             14
Financial Results of the SLCTB               .................           ..       15
j      VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT  ....................                     16
Institutional Arrangements                 ..........            .......          16
Institutional Achievements .........................                              16
Institutional Shortfalls ............................................   ...       17
VII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ..................                                            is.**********.....  18
Consmers' Surplus Approach ........ . . . . . .    .......... ...............      19
Comparative Cost Approach ...................................                     21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipeats oy in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World anik authorization.



VIII.  THE ROLE OF IDA    ....................e.* ...........   ......      22
IX.  CONCLUSIONS.. . .          . . .. **  ....................           23
Project Justification and Objectives .......... ..............       23
Project Context and Scheduling      ..............................   23
Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes ...........  ....      24
Sustainability of Project Benefits ......................... ..      24
ANNEXES
I  Cumulative Disbursements ActnaL and Estimated ....      ..........   23
2   Summary of Major Covenants and Status of Compliance ........        26
TABLES
table 1  Actual and Original Estimates of Project Costs .. ..........         28
Table 2   Bus Fleet Major Charact-ristics ....................  ........      29
Table 3   Selected Operating Indicators - RTBs .......................        30
Table 4   Estimated operating Results - Combined RTBs ..............  ..      31
Table 5   Revenues and Expenses - SLCTB (Estimates) ........... ...... .      32
Table 6   Estimates of Price Elasticities of Demand ................ ...      33



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
PREFACE
This report presents a review of the genesis and implementation of
thWi Road Passenger Transport Project financed under IDA Credit No. 994-CE
in the amount of USS53.0 million equivalent which was made to the
Democ-itic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in March 1980. The credit
became effective in October 1980 and was closed in November 1985. twenty
nine months later than expected at appraisal. At the closing of the
credit, a total of US$51.6 million had been disbursed and the balance of
US$1.4 million was cancelled. The Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
(SLCTB) was the implementing agency on behalf of the government and nine
Regional Transport Boards fRTBs), which were the principal beneficiaries of
the credit.
The report is based on a Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared
by SLCTB in April 1987, information obtained from a re iew of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), supervision missions, and other reports in the
project file.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by them. The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower on June 9, 1989 for comments. No comments were, however,
received.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKAs ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PRUJECT (CREDIT 994-CE)
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal        Actual or Current
Item                      Expectation             Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)            86.4                   69.4 lt
Underrun (1)                                  _                    19.7
Credit Amount      (USS million)            53.0                   53.0
Disbursed                                 53.0                   51.6
Cancelled                                   -                     1.4
Date Physical Components Completed           6183                   486
Proportion Completed by Above Date (Z) 21  45                      97.4
Proportior of Time Underrun/Overrun (Z)   100                     18Z.9
Economic Rate Return (X)                    20                   Negative  3/
Financial Performance                      Break-even by 1983    Deficit
l/ Cost in US dollar Poquivalent much less than appraisal estimate due to a
considerable depreciation of the Rupee during implementation.
2/ Proportion of disbursement to amount of credit.
3/  Negative economic rate of return based on the same methodology used
during appraisal. However, using a "consumers' surplus" and "comparative
costl approach, the yield would range between 20-23%.



OTHER PROJECT DATA
Orixinal        Revised       Actual
Flrst Mention in file in Timetable                                         1J
Government Application                                       -         12177 11
End of Negotiations                                          -          2/29/1o
Board Approval                                               -          3/1S161
Credit Agreement                                             -          41166e0
Effectiveness                             7114/80       10/27/80       101271/0
Closing Date                              6/30183       12131184       111301/3
Borrower                                 The Democratic Socialist Republic of
Srl Lanka
Iipl e*xting Agency                      Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
Fiscal Year of Sorrower                  January 1-to December 31
Follow-on Project                        None
L/ Originally, a project was conceived as a combined road maintenance and
road transport project. (Per Addendum dated 6/8/79 to July 1976
Project Brief). During appraisal of that project in October 1976,
however, it was found that the transport component had not been
prepared    to a stage where it could be approved and it was therefore
decided to divide the combined project into two and process
each separately. The Road Maintenance Project was approved in May 1979
and the Road Passenger Transport Project was appruved in March 1960.



-Liv-
HISSSION DATA
Honth/   Number of    Number of    Total        Date of
Year     Weeks         Persons    Hanteeks    Reoort
Identificotion   12177       NMA            N/A         N/A         N/A
Preparatios       12178       N/A           N/A         N/A         N/A
Appraisal          8179       N/A           NIA         N/A         02/22180
Supervision  1   11180         2.0           1           2.0        12124/80
Supervision  2    2181         2.8           4          11.2        03106181
Supervision  3    7/81         3.0           3           9.0        07124;81
Supervision  4   :2181         0.4           1           0.4        12104181
Supervision  5    7/82         2.8           1           2.8        07/28182
Supervision  6    5/83         2.0           3           6.0        05123183
Supervision  7   10/83         3.4           3          10.2        12109/83
Supervision  8    3184         1.0           2           2.0        03/08/84
Supervision  9    3/85         2.2           1           2.2        03/20/85
Supervision 10    7/85         2.2           1           2.2        07/02/85
CompLetion         2/18        1.6           1           1.6        03106/66
22.6                     49.6
Hean mv/year                           9
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                     Re
Appraisal Year Average               Exchange Rate USS1 - 15.6
Intervening Years Average                           US$1 - 24.0
Completion Year Average                             USS1 = 28.0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U



-V-
SRI LANX
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSIJRT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
EVALUATION SUM*MRY
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.       Tho political and socio-economic setting against which the Road
Passenger Transport Project was identified and prepared is discussed in
detail in the February 27. 1980 President's Report (PR) paras 2, 10. 21,
32, 36 and in the February 22. 1980 SAl. paras 4.01-4.02. The first credit
for a Highway Project in Sri Lanka was approved by the Board in 1966 and
was subsequently cancelJed as the government wanted to change the project
approach and scope. Between 1960 and 1976 annual per capital gross
national income rose by 0.9Z. The slowdown in the 1970-1977 pertod was
attributed in the PR to L... a combination of factors, including inadequate
investw,nt. poor management of the economy and a policy enviroiment
unconducive to growth and investment....  Policy changes introduced in
1977 following the clection of the United National Party were aimed at
resuscitating the economy and to increase employment. Policy changes were
encouraged in 1978 by an International Monetary Fund standby arrangement
for SDR 93 million.
2.       The genesis of the Road Passenger Transport Project can be traced
to a 1976 update of a 1966 Transport Sector Report. There had been no
Bank-assisted operations for 11 years. An IDA mission visited Sri Lanka in
December 1977 and recomuended assistance to road passenger transport and
for road maintenance and rehabllitation.  initially, the idea was to have
one project cater for both. Event-iwlly, two separate projects were
financeds one for road maintenanr ..nder the Department of Hlghways, and
another for passenger transport <   r the Ministry of Transport (MOT).
3.       In the late 19709. bus passenger transport services were provided
by nine RTBs, which operated bus services over the entire island. supported
and coordinated by the SLCTB. RTNs and the SLCTB together were the Isrgest
employer in Sri Lanka with a staff of about 61,000 in mid-1979. The PR
noted (para 36) that both the SLCTB and the RTBs were e.erstaffed and that
labor productivity was low. Demand for public passenger transport wae
high. In 1978, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) allowed private
operators to operate buses on selected routes. The Road Passenger
Transport Project (appraiseel in August 1979 and approved by the Board in
March 1980) was designed to provide assistance to SLCTB and RTBs with a
view to improving bus service in the country.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.       The objectives of the project were to (SAR, para 4.03).
(a) restrain the growth of oil imports;
(b) provide a more reliable bus service which would offer the public a
more acceptable alternative to the use of private carns and



-vi-
(C) decentralize the control of bus operations to financially viable
RThs.
5.       To achieve these objectives, the project would seek to:
(a) improve the fuel efficiency of the bus fleet by the purchase of
new vehicles, and by improving maintenance standards;
(b) obtain a higher utilization of existing buses and a longer life;
and
(c) end subsidies for the busn operations and to pave the way for a
change in the system of financing capital development by lOOS
grants, so that from 1983 the RTBs would provide part of the new
capital needs from internal cash generation and borrowings.
PROJECT COHPONENTS
6.       The components of the project were (SAR, para 4.04):
(a) the restoration of the capacity of the SLCTB to operate an
efficient unit overhaul and parts exchange service. and a complete
bus overhaul service;
(b) the purchase of chassis and materials, and assembly of 2,120 new
buses for use by the RTBss
(c) the improvement of bus main..enance facilities and practices in the
RTBs, and improvement in bus operations:
(d) low cost traffic engineering measures designed to improve bus
flows; and
(e) technical assistance for the execution of the project and
institution building.
7.       At appraisal, the project was expected to be completed by December
31. 1982. The performance of the SLCTB and RTBs was considered
satisfactory in view of the constraints under which they had been operating
(PR. para 63). Physical c.u%onents were similar to previous works executed
by SLCTB and were not expecced to present a.ny particular problems (PR, para
51). The accounting system of SLCTB and the RTBs was found to be outmoded
and accounts were seriously in arrears. This concealed a growing operating
loss until the position was revealed by a consultant report in August 1979.
Consultants were engaged under the project to assist with the work of
updating the accounting records and system (PR, para 52). Honitoring would
be conducted through quarterly progresJ reports by the SLCTB (PR. para 55).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.       Experience with both objectives and with the instruments for their
pursuit has not been encouraging.



-vii-
(a) Objectivest
{i)  reduced growth of oil imports: not achieved because of the
changing conditions during the life of the project:
(ii)  provision of more reliable bus services: achieved to some
degree. but not as foreseen in the SAR. The more reliable
service was actually provided by private operators (PCR, para
36); and
(iii) decentralization of bus operations to financially viable RTBss
responsibility 38s delegated to the ITBs, but they did not
become financially viable (PCR, paras 42-44).
(b) Instruments:
(i)  improved fuel efficiency of the bus fleet: achieved by default.
The RTBs were forced to reduce services, scrap overage buses,
and concentrate on new buses with better designs--including
fuel efficiency.  However. fuel costs escalated between 1980 to
1985 (PCR, para 45).
(il) higher utilization of existing buses and a longer life:
achieved by default. Competition from private operators caused
an eventual retrenchment of routes and services. The new busect
purchased under the project had a life expectancy of 12 years,
and the maintenance program was intended to increase the
reliability of the buses (PCR, para 53); and
(iii) end subsidies for bus operations: not fully achieved (PCR, para
41).
COMPONENTS
9.       Experience with. procurement and implementation has not been
encouraging.
(a)  Bus overh2ul service: not discussed in the PCR;
(b)  procurement of buses: A total of 1.618 buses were actually
procured as against 2,120 proposed at appraisal (PCR. paras
16-21);
(c)  improvement of depot maintenance and operations: A total of 15
depots were completed as against 22 proposed at appraisal (PCR,
paras 22-23);
(d)  low cost traffic engineering measures: .'ropped (PCR, para 14d)5
and
(e)  technical assistances A total of 220 staff-months was financed
under the project; benefits are modest (PCR, para 32).



-viii-
COSTS
10.      At project completion (PCR, para 24), reported actual expenditures
amounted to US$69.4 million (as against the appraisal estimate of US$86.4
million). 'Reported actual expenditure" figures should be treated wtith
caution because of imperfections in the accounting systems and procedures
of SLCTB and the RTBs (PCR, paras 26, 37, 41, 43, 48).
PROJECT COMPLETION
11.      The SAR (paras 4.19-4.20) states that all Executing Agencies
(SLTCB, MOT, the Colombo Municipal Council, and the Department of Highways)
were deemed capable of executing the project and that the bulk of the
project's components were similar to previous works executed by SLCTB and
should present no particular problems. The PR (para 50) expected the
project to be completed by December 31, 1982. In fact, the project was
completed in June 1986 (PCR, Basic Data Sheet) because of the problems
related to procurement. SLCTB management, and labor issues (PCR, para 15).
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
12.      By the end of 1985, bus services had been curtailed below their
levels at the beginning of the project, even though the size of the fleet
had remained the same (PCR, para 36).
13.      Bus operation statistics are inconsistent and somewhat unreliable
as operating records were not consistently maintained (PCR. para 37).
14.      Financial evaluation of RTBs was made "... more complex and
unreliable by the deplorable state of the accounting of the entire
operations of both the SLCTB and the RT1sm (PCR, para 41). The
'...management of the centralized workshops and warehouse were weak..."
(PCR, para 47). The "...actual financial situation of the SLCTB...remains
largely unknown. Since the inception of the project, until official
closing, it was never possible to establish a true financial picture of the
SLCTB for any of the past years....  Three financial audits were carried
out..., but the Auditor General could not approve the accounts" (PCR, para
48).
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
15.      Economic rate of return estimated at appraisal by using fare
receipts as a proxy for benefits resulting from the provision of road
passenger transport services under the project: 20t (SAR, paras 6.01-6.04).
Economic rate of return reestimated after project completion by using the
same methodology: negative (PCR, para 58). The economic reevaluation used
in the PCR is unrelated to the appraisal methodology. tt is based on
(a) consumer surplus, and (b) comparative cost (PCR, para 59). The two
approached yield economic rates of return in the 20-23Z range (PCR, para
76).



SRI LANKA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The transport system and facilities of Sri Lanka comprise about
25.300 km of roads under the Department of Highways and about 41,000 km
under the local authorities; about 1,450 km of railway tracks most of which
consist of single track on broad gauge; one main and two minor parts: and
seven airports of which one handles international traffic. Inland
transport services are provided by the Ceylon Government Railways, public
bus transport boards consisting of the SLCTB and nine TB3s, and an
increasing number of private road passenger and goods operators. Road
transport is by far the most important activity--accounting for over two
thirds of the seotor compared with the railways which plays a relatively
insignificant role accounting for about 4Z.
2.       For over two decades prior to 1979 the public sector maintained a
virtual monopoly over regular bus service in Sri Lanka. In June 1978 the
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) reorganized the public bus service by
decentralizing the former Ceylon Transport Board (CTB) to form the SLCTB
and the nine RTBs. In April 1979, GOSL made a major policy move by lifting
restrictions imposed by the previous government in the operation of regular
bus services by private operators. with a view to relieving the chronic
overcrowding of buses operated by the RTBs, and eliminating the long linss
of passengers at bus stops caused by inadequate and unreliable bus
schedules. The lifting of restrictions to operate private bus service was
also intended to encourage competition in the passenger transport industry.
3.       The bus services provided by the RTBs were inadequate and poorly
managed in the face of growing demand for passenger service. The problems
of the public bus services were compounded by the fact that more than a
quarter of the fleet was overaged and a majority of the buses needed major
overhauls. Thus in the 1979-83 investment program prepared by GOSL, a need
was foreseen for providing adequate funding for maintenance and
rehabilitation of the public passenger service in the light of its
predominant role in the transport sector. A road passenger transport
project proposal, the main thrust of which was the renewal and augmentation
of RTB fleet, was the basis for the project for which IDA provided funding
under this credit.
4.       In early 1959 all privately-owned bus services in Sri Lanka were
nationalized and the CTB was created to operate road passenger transport as
a monopoly. In June 1978 the CTB was dissolved and replaced by nine public
bus operators--the RTBs, and one central service organization--the SLCT8.
Among the responsibilities of the SLCTB were the provision of goods and
services to the RTBs and coordination among them including personnel
deployment, review of bus fares, general planning and procurement.



-2-
5.       Since project exscution coo enced in 1980. major institutional
changes supported by IDA were implemented with the goal of providing
greater operational autonomy of the RTas, and reduced control by the SLCTS.
Functions such as operations of the central and regional workshops,
procurement of routine materials and spares were subsequently devolved to
the MTs. The centralization of these functions at the SLCTS (which proved
to be a major operational handicap for the RTBs) was not only a strain on
the already weak management of the SLCTB, but also. important repair work
and parts supply had to be referred to Colombo from the nine regions for
SLCTB approvai before action could be taken. This caused serious delays ln
bus repairs, low bus availability, and high workshop downtime.
6.       The financing of the project was based on the following plant
(a) IDA to provide a credit to GOSL in the amount of US$53.0 million
on standard terms;
(b) GOSL to provide US$34.3 million equivalent in local currency
to cover local costs of the project including taxess
(c) IDA funds were to be on-lent to SLCTB and to each of the nine
RTBs under a subsidiary loan agreement with each agency in
respect of goods and services received under the project;
(d) GOSL contribution to the project was to be treated as equity
towards the capital of each beneficiary agency; and
(e) the funds from the credit earmarked for the traffic engineering
component were to pass to the MOT as a grant.
7.      A factor which strongly influenced the project execution was a
prolonged civil disturbance beginning in 1983. This disturbance caused
increasing damages to property in the northern and northeastern regions of
the country. This unfortunate disruption had an adverse effect on
passenger transport in those areas and led to severe weakening of the
operational and financial performance of the RTBs generally. Estimates to
assess the extent of damae to the public passenger transport indicate that
property damage in excess of USS15.0 million was sustained by the Sri Lanka
Transport Boards including the destruction of about 900 buses and several
depots. In those areas where the impact of the civil unrest was less
severe, cowpetition from the private bus operators had diverted traffic
from the RTBs prompting a forced, but necessary reduction in the RTB
regular bus services.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin
8.       Based on the updated Transport Sector Report of 1966. an IDA
mission visited Sri Lanka in December 1977. Two separate projects were
identifieds one for road maintenance under the Department of Highways, and



-3-
another to address the need for assistance to the Sri Lanka road passenger
transport system. The mission also recommended to GOSL that adequate
funding be provided in the immediate program for both road maintenance and
rehabilitation of the public bus service. As further work was required for
preparation of the road passenger project, IDA approved a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) in December 1978 to assist the SLCTB prepare a
suitable project.
Preparation and Appraisal
9.       The project was prepared as a product of cooperation between the
SLCTB and consultants hired under the PPF; it was subsequently appraised by
IDA in August 1979 followed by a Board approval in March 1980. The project
was aimed at expanding the scale of bus operation of the transport boards
by about 302 by 1983 consistent with the demand for passenger service at
that time. To achieve this target, a program of investment consisting of
substantial additions of new buses to the fleet and major overhauls of
existing vehicles was defined. In addition, provisions were made for
improving the vehicle maintenance facilities by reequipping the workshops
and supplying critical spare parts which had been out of stock for a
considerable time. Furthermore, technical assistance was to be provided in
the areas where management capabilities were inadequate or did not exist in
both the SLCTB and the RTBs.
10.      During project execution. events which had not been foreseen at
the time of apprais%1 affected the project design in terms of its
objectives and implementation logistics. The liberalization of trade which
GOSL announced in 1979, coupled with the attractive fiscal incentives
offered to the private bus operators, encouraged a major influx of private
passenger vehicles into the country. This affected the RTBs and claimed a
rapidly growing share of rhe passenger market. This trend of market share
loss of the RTBs was accertuated by the freedom with which private bus
operators were left to choose their routes. Thus it became imperative for
the RTBs and the SLCTB to reassess the project objectives, particularly
with respect to the scale of operations of the RTBs. The loss of market
share had meant that RTBs buses were increasingly forced to run with fewer
passengers because private operators' services were perceived by the public
to be better and more reliable than those of the RTBs.
11.      As a result of the strong competition, the foicus of the project
objectives was directed away from expansion of operations and placed
instead on fleet consolidation and efficiency improvements. The initial
actions involved freezing services at their 1980 levels, and subsequently
scrapping and removal from the fleet of the overaged buses. Procurement of
new buses with better design features also become an objective to reduce
driver fatigue and resultant absenteeism caused by driving very old buses
requiring a great deal of manual labor to maneuver the steering wheel and
to shift gears. Also. operating and financial data collection and
processing systems were introduced to provide management with a mechanism
for monitoring operations which would assist in decision making. In
retrospect, the outcome of these adjustments in passenger service resulted
in elimination of overcrowding and staff retrenchment as a result of the
reduced role of SLCTB and individual RTBs. Moreover as there was no longer
justification for expanding the fleet size .n the face of an increasing
number of private operators, focus was turned to replacements with buses of
better design..



-4-
Project Objectives
12.      The main project objectives were the support of government
policies to: (a) restrain the growth of oil imports; (b) provide a more
reliable bus service which would offer the public an acceptable alternative
to the use of private cars; and (c) decentralize the control of bus
operations to financially viable Regional Boards. To achieve these
objectives. the project sought to: (a) improve the fuel efficiency of the
bus fleet by the purchase of new vehicles and by improving maintenance
standards; (b) obtain a higher utilization of existing buses and a longer
life: and (c) end subsidies for bus operations and to pave the way for a
change in the system of financing capital development by 1002 grant, so
that from 1983, the RTBs would provide part of the new capital needs from
internal cash generation and borrowing.
13.      rXnder the prevailing social-economic conditions at the time of
appraisal, the project objectives were appropriate and well conceived.
Despite the changes which had to be made in operational strategy occasioned
by the private operators, project objectives generally remained unchanged,
although approaches to the objectives were altered. For example. the
reduction of the level of bus service in most cases was aimed at reducing
operating losses of the RTBs.
Project Description
14.      The project was designed to include the following major
components:
(a) Reepuipping SLCTB Workshops
Restoration of unit exchange and overhaul facilities of the
SLCTB. This component was designed to improve the output and
quality of the central and provincial workshops operated and
owned by the SLCTB for the benefit of the RTB buses. It was
envisaged that at project completion the workshops would be
adequately equipped to recondition units, (e.g., engines and gear
boxes) and sub-units (e.g'.. wiper and starter motors).  In
addition, it was envisaged that the workshops would be capable of
carrying out complete bus overhauls including bodywork needed for
the entire fleet of the RTBs.
(b)  Purchase of New Buses
This component provided for the purchase of bus chassis and
body materials for local assembly at the Ekalla factory of
SLCTB located in the suburbs of Colombo. In addition, it
provided for purchase of a small number of complete buses with
enhanced features to be tried out in service.
(c) Improvement in Bus Maintenance and Operations
This component involved construction and equipping of 22 new
depots and purchase of equipment for new as well as existing
depots and improving bus operations.



(d)  Low-cost TraffLc Enuineerins Measures-
This component (whith was later -Iropped due to aaniuistrative
difficulties imposed by the involvement of several agencies), was
aimed at smoll measures such &s provision of bus lanes, relocation
of bus stops, minor improvements on pavement and curbs, and
regulations concerning back-loading and unloading.
(e)  Technical Assistance
This component was aimed at providing consultancy services and
training in the areas of production engineering, procurement.
accounting, traffic operations and management reorganization.
III. PROJECT TMPLEHSNTATION
15.      Project execution (which was exposed to a series of problems
throughout) took 61 months to complete from the day of credit effectiveness
compared with the appraisal estimate of 36 months. Principal constraints
included protracted delays in making decisions on procurement of the buses;
a high turnover in the management of the SLCTB which occasioned deferrals
of important implementation decisions; and labor related issues at the
central workshop and the Ekalla bus body assembly plant.
Procurement of Buses
16.      This component of the project involved procurement of about 2,100
bus chassis units and related body materials for assembly in Sri Lanka.
The first order for single-deck bus chassis under the project consisted of
660 units for assembly at the SLCTB Ekalla assembly plant. At the time of
the award of tender, substantial time had been lost by the SLCTB in meeting
conditions of credit effectiveness and in completing the bidding and
evaluation processes. As a result, the first delivery of bus chassis was
taken more than one year after the date set at appraisal. In the second
order for 400 chassis units, the bid documents provided that the winning
bidder could be given an option, at the discretion of the SLCTB, to include
an additional 200 units under the same specifications as those of the main
bid for the 400 units.  The objective of this option was to induce SLCTS.to
purchase a small number of completely built buses equipped with 'novel'
features which had not been tried previously.  The features that were
considered as experimental included: (a) rear-mounted engine; (b) automatic
transmission; (c) a stronger bus body to withstand overloading; and (d) a
combination of these features. The intention was to run such buses on test
basis, monitoring the performance of each major feature against those of
the completed buses assembled to existing specifications. These novel
features would be considered for inclusion in the specifications for the
next order should the experiments prove positive.
17.      While the procurement of the 400 chassis Units progressed well.
SLCTB delayed in purchasing ten completely built buses with novel features.
This delayed the delivery of the further 200 chassis units which was
contingent upon the purchase by'SLCTB (using prudent shopping as a
1 I'e for X ,  l I         ) of i ,    buses w d       l feature'.



l8.      Meanwhile, the bus chassis which were being delivered under the
first and second orders began accumulating at the Ekalla factory as the
assembly was progressing at less than the expected rate. Appraisal
estimates assumed an assembly bus production of 75-100 per month.   Actual
monthly output fluctuated widely, but generally fell between 30 and 50
buses, depending on a variety of adverse factors at the factory and in the
SLCTB. At the Ekalla factory (which was constantly plagued by staff
absenteeism and a lack of incentive to produce) management was almost non-
existent and there was little effort to follow a systematic production
schedule. SLCTB later purchased the ten complete buses with novel features
from Japan and the United Kingdom. Following this decision by SLCTB. the
suppliers who won the contract for the 400 chassis units were advised of
their right to deliver the 200 additional chassis under the same
specifications and contract.
19.      Pressured by the accumulation of chassis arriving at Ekalla and
faced with the risk that storage space could run out. SLCTB realized that
the slow production at the Ekalla factory was delaying project
implemeintation. SLCTB then requested IDA to approve the procurement of
completely built buses in the next order to speed up the number of buses to
the fleet--replacing a growing number of overaged buses.  By the closing
date IDA had approved the contract for the supply of 200 built buses: not
surprisingly there was a balance in the credit in excess of US$Z9 million
of uncommitted funds. GOSL requested IDA for an extension of the closing
date to permit completion of various components of the project which were
at different stages of implementation.
20.      In May 1983, IDA sent a mission to review the status of the
project in detail and decide whether or not an extension of the closing
date was warranted. Although all the relevant information required to make
a comprehensive assessment of the status of implementation was not
available, the mission was nevertheless able to draw some conclusions about
the project and the prospects of project objectives. The mission findings
were summarized as follows:
(a)  at the June 30, 1983 original closing date, only about 50X of the
project would have been completed.  The much needed fleet
replacement was drastically slowed down by the inability of the
Ekalla assembly plant to achieve reasonable production targets;
(b)  the bus operations of the RTBs in general had deteriorated due to
diminishing availability of their buses--compounded by a fierce
competition from an increasing number of private bus operators.
This raised the question of whether it was prudent to continue
supplying more buses to the RTBs without an effort to reduce
operations to a manageable level;
(c)  the construction of the new depots-and workshops and improvement
of existing ones had not been completed because GOSL had declined
to provide funding for local costs. These facilities were
considered vital for the improvement of the bus maintenance and
service facilities of the RTBs; and



(d)  the GOSL had made a definite commitment to curb the-management
turnover which had plagued the SLCTS. The new management which
took office in February 1983 (the fourth since project
implementation commenced'd were more responsive than the previous
ones *nd appeared to understand the project objectives;
additionally they were aware of the changing circumstances in the
passenger transport service.
21.      With this background, IDA approved extensions to the closing date
in stages with a view to permitting more time to assess the competence and
enthusiasm of the new managemnt, and to encourage GOSL and SLCTB to carry
out a program of reforms consistent with the objectives of the project.
The first extension of six months was to permit project expenditures for
which IDA had given itz approval prior to the closing date. Subsequent
extensions were granted upon willingness of SLCTB to accepts
(a) an agreed program of scrapping about 1,400 buses which were
crowding the service and maintenarre facilities of the RTIs;
(b) procurement of more buses which would have specified novel
features;
(c) decentralization of provincial workshops and handing them over to
the RTs; and
(d) reorganization of the materials management and purchasing
functions of the SLCTB-
These actions were closely monitored by IDA, and to a large measure the
objectives were achieved. Vnder the the action plan agreed between IDA and
SLCTB, 150 additional fully built buses (with new specifications which had
not yet been tried in the RTBe) were purchased under international
competitive bidding procedures. A total of 1,618 buses were eventually
procured under this project.
Improvement of Depot Maintenance and Operations
22.      The number of new depots proposed at appraisal was reduced from 22
to 15 in recognition of the need to scale down the operations of the
RTBs--a change necessitated by the rapid expansion of the private bus
I       operations.  This component faced a serious setback when GOSL decided that
the responsibility for funding the local costs of this component should be
placed with the RTBs rather than from a government budget.  The execution
was thus delayed for a while as the RTBs were unable to provide the needed
funds. Realizing that the dispute between the SLCTBIRTBs and GOSL over the
funding of this component could delay execution indefinitely, IDA advised
SLCTB to make a request through GOSL to IDA to transfer funds from an
expenditure category in the credit so that the civil works remai4ing under
this component could be completed. With the availability of this funding,
fifteen new depots were completeW  fully equipped and became operational
together with some existing depots.
23.      The combination of construction of new depots, provision of
related equipment and tools, and the scrapping of the unserviceable buses
is expected in the long term to improve the standard of maintenance wLich



-8-
in turn would permit a better balanced geographic distribution of the bus
services offered islandawlde.
Project Costs
24.      At the completion of the project, repocted actual expenditures
amounted to US$69.35 million equivalent in both local and foreign costs.
This represents a cost underrun of 20Z against an appraisal estimate of
US$86.4 million. Table 1 (page 28) shows a consolidation of the actual and
estimated total cost of the project and is sum arized below under major
components as follows:
Component                  Expected    Actual    Z of Expected
1.  Spares and workshop equipment           5.99       17.13         286
2.  Buses and assembly                     42.26       41.20          98
3. Depot construction and equipment        10.59        8.21          78
4. Low-cost traffic engineering             0.39
5. Consultantsltraining                     2.24        2.81         125
6. Contingencies                           24.91           --
Total                       86.4         69.4          80
25.      The cost figures are denominated in US dollar equivalents. using
the exchange rates prevailing at the time of each transaction, covering the
period December 1980 to July 1986. While thare was an overall project cost
underrun of about 202. the underrun related to the local costs was nearly
5OZ of the original estimate. The principal factor which contributed to
this cost underrun was the massive devaluation which the Sri Lankan Rupee
(Rs) underwent during the project period. At the time of project
appraisal, an exchange rate between the US dollar and Rs of 15.6 to a
dollar was applied. But rapid depreciation of the Rs followed almost
immediatety, bringing the exchange rate to nearly Rs 21 to the US dollar oy
the end of 1961. In July 1986 when IDA made the final disbursement from
the credit, the exchange rate stood at 1.. 27, a depreciation of over 402
during the project period. Another major contributing factor to the cost
underrun relates to the reduction in the scope of the project in such areas
as the number of new depots to have been constructed (reduced from 22 at
appraisal to 15) and the number of buses to have been (reduced from 2.120
to 1,618). Furthermore. the entire component under low-cost traffic
engineering measures in the project cost estimate was dropped from the
project due to administrative and organizational difficulties chat were
encountered from the beginning.
26.      Because of the accounting problems created by the non-existence of
any consistently applied and accepted procedures in the SLCTBS the costs
associated with the bus assembly and workshop operations have probably been
understated. Specifically, SLCTB did not have the capability to apportion



-9-
lobor and overhead costs of its operations which were in=orporated in the
ex-asuembly prices of the buses which were transferred to the RTBs se long-
term loans. Although efforts wece made to install and operate sound
accounting systems. no noticeable improvements were realized during the.
project life, largely due to management turaover and non-availability of
qualified accounting personnel in the MTs and SLCTS.
27.      Looking at other specific components. it is noteworthy that there
were cases of cost overruns, particularly in the case of spares and units
where the original estimate was almost tripled. The underlying reason for
the cost overrun in spares was that the bus operations were crippled by the
lack of spare parts and engine and gearbox units (which had been
underestimated at appraisal). Therefore, SLCTS was compelled to supplement
its units and parts exchange arrangem-nt with a direct infusion of new
spares and units. With the approval of IDA. more spare parts and engine
and gearbox units were purchased to revitalize the fleet.
28.      The costs under the coLjultant and training component were
exceeded due to an enhanced training program which involved both top and
second level management personnel of both the SLCTB and RTBs. The traLning
program was expanded to include visits to selected countries to observe bus
manufacturing and operations. In addition. second level management
personnel were sent overseas for tral k (pars 52).
Financial Sources
29.      Financing of the project was accomplished through the IDA credit
and an allocation from the GOSL's budget. The actual and original
expectation of financing is suumasrized belows
Source of Funding        Original Plan               Actual
Rs M   US$ M*           8R5 N4  US$ M      S
IDA Credit         827    53.0      58     1,342   51.62      74
GOSL               535    34.3      37       622   23.92      34
SLCTB               70     4.6       5      (161)  (6 191)   () 
1,432    91.7    100     1,803   69.35    100
* An exchange rate of Rs 15.6 and Rs 26 to a US dollar respectively
for original plan and actual figures were applied in the conversion.
** SLCTB was unable to contribute, and in fact were subsidized.
30.      Funding for the project was expected to come from IDA, GOSL and
SLTCB's surpluses.  But the funding contribution from SLCTB did not
materialize because of operating deficits which absorbed funds of about
US$6.19 million equivalent. The IDA credit provided nearly three quarters
of the total project cost of USS69.3 million equivalent against an original
estimate of about 61X based on the estimated project cost of US$86.4
million at appraisal. The increase in the share of the IDA credit in the
actual cost of the project is explained by:



- Q-
(a)  the effect of the depreciation of the ts against the US dollar,
during the implemntation period. which resulted in reduced dollar
equivalents of the local components of the project cost;
(b)  the fact that more (than originally estimated) fully built buses
were purchased, reducing the cost gssociated with local assembly;
(c)  the cost of additional spares and units; and
(d)  the unforeseen use of credit funds for completing civil works at
several depots (whose construction stopped temporarily due to non-
availability of local funds).
31.      As the completion of the depot construction was considered highly
beneficial in achieving efficiency improvements in the transport boards.
IDA encouraged SLCTB to utilize the uncommitted funds from the credit for
this purpose. About USS1*38 million of the credit remained unutillied at
the completion of the project aad was cancelled, making a fully disbursed
total credit of US$51.6 million. GOSL made several attempts to persude
IDA to permit the use of credit savings for more spare parts. However. IDA
decided that the overall needs of the public transport could be ,.I_essed
in more detail in the context of a transport study. The findings of the
now completed study are defining the spewzfic needs of the public bus
service and is being used as a basic for preparation of other transport
projects.
Performance of Consultants
32.      The need for the services of consultants was foreseen at an early
stage of this project. At the preparation stage, consultants were needed
to prepare the project so that important preliminary work to ready the
project for appraisal was completed on time. The consultants for project
preparation were funded from a PPF provided by the IDA. Other project
implementation responsibilities which required the use of consultants
included: drawing up of bus specifications and preparation of bidding
documents; bus route costing study; preparation of SLCTSB accounts; and
design of an inventory management system. A total of 220 staff-months of
both local and expatriate consultants was expended during the entire period
of pro_*ct execution. However, most of the staff-months had already been
utilizeA by the original closing date of credit of June 30. 1983. Much of
the proc rsment work which followed after June 30, 1983 until the final
closing date was carried out by S'iTU's omn staff who gained considerable
experience from the consultants--particularly in the preparation of bus
specifications and production of bid documents.
33.      Other consultant assignments were generally of short-term nature.
and hence, there was not sufficient time for SLCTSB counterparts to gain
from the experience of the short-term consultants. The route costing study
was carried out and completed in four months. After the departure of the
consultants, little effort was made by SLTSB management to review the
recommendations, largely due to the rather rapid turnover in the management
at the time. The accounting studies were designed to assess the liquidity
position of the SLCTS and MTe. on two occasions when it was felt that SLCTS



-11-
has been withholding funds which GOSL had granted as operational subsidies
to the RTs .  Both of theie short-term specific purpose studies which were
called for in the moments of crisis did little to improve the overall
accounting and financial functions of the RTBuISLCTB as there were acute
staff shortages in these disciplines. The overall impact of technical
assistance was therefore mixed. Except in the case of procurement where
som experience appears to have been gained. little or no expertise was
passed on to the staff of SLCTB and RTBs through this component.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
34.      Operating performance of public transport was influenced by fleet
characteristics, maintenance and traffic scheduling practices in force,
competitive forces in the passenger scene. financial standing and
management capability and disposition of the RtBs and the SLCTB. Also,
about a quarter of the fleet was composed of buses with ages ranging fruA
twelve to twenty years. The major characteristics of the bus fleet are
shown in Table 2 Qage 30) and a brief summary is presented below:
1980    1985      Change Z
Average number of buses (in the fleet)         7,322   7,335         0
Average age of the buses (yeers)                 7.9      7.7       -2.5
Buses operated (average per day)               5,670   4.875       -14.0
New buses (1980-85)                                     1,618
Old buses scrapped and withdrawn (1980-85)              2,125
i
The Bus Fleet
35.      When the project was appraiaed in 1979, there was a fleet of
approximately 7,300 hases.  Of this total, around 6.300 buses were in
actual daily service to meet the time schedule of bus routes. The
remaining buses were used as back-ups or replacements when repair or
maintenance became necessary.   Several buses were later scrapped and
withdrawn from the service in 1980 due so frequent treakdowns and mounting
maintenance costs. Implementation of various components of the project was
aimed at modernizing the fleet and eventually increasing the leve' of
service by about 222. However, the rapid deterioration in the quality of
service and the looming uncertainty about the finances of the kTBs forced a
change in the approach to fleet modernization. The shifts that were made
in the operating plans included:
(a) a phasing out of over 2,600 overaged buses (these buses were the
principal focus of blame for the excessive overcrowding at the
central workshops and in most of the regional bus depots; the
scrapping was intended to free up workshop space as well as
substantial maintenance resources);



-1Z-2
(b)  an immediate reduction in the timetable requirement (i.e., the
nuubz of buses required daily to make trips on scheduled routes)
tg a level no higher than that of 1980 to reduce operating
deficits of the RTBs which resulted in turn from the growing loss
of the passenger market share to privately operated buses;
(c) a reduction in the combined workforce of the RTBa and SLCTS by
about 10-132; and
(d) devising a route licensing system for the private operators which
would encourage a free and fair competition between the private
and public bus operators.
36.      Emphasis in the operations thus changed from the expansion of
passenger service as originally envisaged, to consolidation of services
tthrough selective reduction of the timetable requirement, and improvement
in the availability and utilization of buses by concentrating bus
maintenance on the vehicles which were less susceptible to frequent
breakdons. By the end of 1985, services had substantially been curtailed
below their levels at the beginning of the project. even though the size of
the fleet had remained generally the same.
Bus Operations
37.      Selected operating indicators are presented in Table 3 of this
report. These data are not wholly consistent nor are they adequately
reliable as operating records were not consistently maintained. This was
particularly the case with regard to the daily service requirement plan und
buses actually made available for operation for the day. Nevertheless, it
records the trend for increasing route lengths and the declining number of
passengers. Major highlights from Table 3 have been extracted and are
p,esented below in brief summary which compares these indicators at the
beginning of the project execution in 1980, and the results at the
completion of the project.
1980         1985
Total route length (km)   Million           46.7         60.4
Passenger-km scheduled    Million    19,291.4    19,050.0
Passenger-km operated      Million    22,224.3    14,720.0
Passengers carried         Million      1,846.8         988.5
Passenger per bus-km                         3.6          2.5
Load factor                                 79.7Z        69.72
Vehicle utilization (kmlday)              249.0         219.0
Employees per bus                            8.6          7.9
38.      With emphasis on the curtailment and consolidation of services, as
mentioned above (para 36), the scale of operations went down considerably.
The private bus operators were forcing a radical change on the bus services



of the RTIs who were not fully prepared to meet the unexpected competition -
in the passenger service.  Thus overall passenger-km operated by the public
road transport declined from 22,2 billion in 1980 to 14.7 billion in 1985.
a shrinkags of 33.82 largely due to a waning market share of the RTSe to
the more aggressive private bus operators.  The number of passengers
carried declined from about i :47 million passengers in 1980 to about 988
million in 1985--a drop of 46.5S. RTIs were left with no choice other than
selective withdrawal of services. This reduced operated bus-km from 516.6
million in 1980 to about 402 million in 1985. The decision to reduce bus
services was not an easy one. Having operated under the lax market
conditions as a monopoly, the RTKs perceived their goal V.o expand bus
service to every accessible locale on the island--and were almost oblivious
to operating costs.  IDA tried to convince the SLCTS  and the RT8s that
increasing kms of operated buses was not competitive and was adding to the
mounting operating deficits. It was the latter reason which eventually
caused the SLCTB and the RTBs to retrench as creditors became lees patient
when funds become unavailable to pay operating costs.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Fares
39.      At appraisal, the future finances of the RSTs/SLCTB were
predicated on the policy that passenger services would be provided to
permit these agencies to become financially viable. To achieve this
objective the government would determine the scale of fare increases each
year on the basis of annual financial forecasts prepared by the RTKS. At
the time of the project appraisal, it was determined that RTS operations
had been incurring larger financial deficits than had previously been
estimated. and that a program of fare increases to reverse the trend was
necessary. In pursuit of this goal. the Development Credit Agreement
specified that GOSL would permit increases in the bus fares necessary to
eliminate the financial deficits of the RTBs by 1983. Financial forecasts
were therefore based on assumptions that permitted a financial break-even
before or at the latest by 1983.
40.      During project execution, a number of fare increases were approved
by GOSL and put into effect by the RTBs. The first fare increase was in
March 1980 when there was a belief that the deficits of the RTBs Vere
reaching alarming proportions. As RTBs tried to assess their financial
performance amidst crude accounting and financial records, it becam
evident that more frequent and much higher fare increases were inevitable
to achieve the goal of a financial break-even position by 1983. An uneven
series of fare increases, one of 61? in November 1980, another of 242 in
March 1981 and the last increaue of 172 in August 1983 were swiftly
approved by GOSL largely to ward off an immirent possibility of having to
substdize RTB deficit from the severely constrained central budget.
41.      Despite all these rather generous increases in the bus fares there
was no indlcation tiat the financial deficits of the RTBs were abating.
The financial evaluations were made more comples and unrellable by the
deplorable state of the accounting in the entire operations of both the



-14-
SLCTB and the RTBs. IDA insisted on many occasions on the appointment of a
financial controller, but'a premature departure by the first financial
controller. followed by a sudden death of his successor. meant that little
was done to improve accounting procedures. In addition. private operators
were penetrating the passenger market, which left the role of the RTBs in a
state of disarray. Often private operitors offered lower fores to the
public than those of the RTBs. This act neutralized further arguments for
fare increases and provided the government with a strong case against
providing subsidies to the RTBs. It was thus demonstrated that fare
increases per se vas not necessarily a cure for the financial ailments of
the RTBs.
Financial Results of the RTBs
42.      The fare increases which were administered during 1980183 period
proved that the financial problems of the RTBs had little to do with the
level of fares, and resolving them therefore called for more drastic
action. To illustrate this, the record provides a striking comparison.
While average fares went up three times during the period, average revenue
per bus per year increased by about one and three quarters. Average
operating cost per bus, which was consistently higher than average
revenues, increased by about 802.
43.      A serious problem which effectively neutralized the revenue yield
of the fare increases was the level of pilferage in the fare collection.
and the rampant fraud linked with the tampering of the ticket machines by
bus conductors and non-paying passengers--some of whom were in collusion
with the conductors. Several measures were taken to curb the pilferage and
stop the growing number of non-paying passengers. The measures included a
ticketing system that functioned as a lottery with weekly pay-offs made to
the winning tickets. The aim was to lure passengers into buying a ticket
(to reduce non-paying passengers) not only for a ride, but also for a
chance to win a lottery drawing. The other measures included spot checks
on the buses on route by a team of 'flying squads' equipped with jeeps
(procured under the project), and procurement of specially designed tamper-
proof ticket machines. Although benefits were achieved through these
measures, it was difficult to evaluate specific savings because of the
inadequacy of the overall accounting systems of both the SLCTB and RTBs.
44.      However, some crude figures reveal that some noticeable
improvement was achieved. Average revenue per passenger more than doubled-
-increasing from 7 cents in 1980 to 16 cents in 1985. Operating losses of
the RTBs declined from Rs 488.8 million in 1982 to about Rs 316.6 millior.
in 1985 (Table 4). This is a reduction of over 351 in the deficit in three
years which, considering the competitive circumstances was not only
welcome, but also encouraging. Looking at another indicator, revenue per
average journey increased by more than one and half times--from 86 cents in
1980 to 222 cents in 1985, thanks largely to the fare increases of 1980 and
1983.
45.      With regard to operating costs, a number of factors affected the
finances of the bus operations adversely. Average cost per passenger went
up almost two and half times during the period. Similarly average cost per
journey increased from 102 cents in 1980 to 264 cents in 1985; the rise in



-15-
costs is explained by (a) a massivi devaluation of the Re affecting the
prices of imported items iuch as spares and buses the value of the Rs went
frx Re 15. 6 in 1980 to Rs 26 to the US dollar in  ,85s (b) the sharp rise
in -he price of fuel whose consumption accounted for 40X or so of the total
costs of the bus operations: the average price per gallon of fuel went
from Rs 13.5 in January 1980 to about Rs 37 in July 1985. an average
increase per year of about 252S and (c) the absence of correct maintentnce
practices which caused many cancelled bus trips due to either bus break
downs or non-availability of equipment. Based on the estimated combined
operating results of the RTBs which were made by consultants for the period
1982185, the operating deficits showed some noticeable decline. This is a
wide disparity from the appraisal estimates which computed a deficit of Rs
94.5 million for 1982. and operating surpluses from 1983 onwards. The cost
push effect of the fuel prices and the massive depreciation of the Rs not
only perpetuated a marginal cost rate which was higher than the marginal
revenue of bus operation, but it also widened operating loss per operated
km.
Financial Results of the SLCTB
46.      The business of the SLCTB, unlike that of the RTBs, faced no
competition, and in at least in some respects the SLCTB enjoyed a
monopolistic position in its dealings with its principal customers--the
RSBs. SLCTB derived its income largely from the mark-up of 182 on the
value of goods and services it procured on behalf of the RTBs. In
addition. the operations of the parts and units exchange system handled by
SLCTB at the provincial workshops and the central warehouse and workshop
complex at Werahera enabled SLCTB to bill such exchanged units at an
arbitrary 502 the price of a new one. Under the circumstances SLCTB faced
no competition and was under no pressure to improve the quality of the
units exchanged (which had a high early failure rate.)
47.      As shown in Table 5 (page 33), net trading profit of the SLCT9
went on a rapid decline in the 1980 to 1985 period. This was a clear
indication that the management of the centralized workshops and warehouse
was weak so that the mark-ups (which were modest) were not enough to cover
the costs. SLCTB then conceded and relinquished the management of the
provincial workshops to the RTBs, and also encouraged RTBs to do their own
purchases of locally available materials without having to go through its
!          controlled Werahera parts and units warehouse.
48.      The SLCTB generally remained in operation without the threat of
!          financial deficits.  Nevertheless in 1984, its worst year. the SLCTB
incurred a net operating deficit of Rs 8.1 million, compared with. peak
profit of Rs 141.3 million in 1980. It is important to bear in mind that
these financial statements are by no measure representative of the actual
financial situatio.. of the SLCTB--which still remains largely unknown.
Since the inception of the project. until official closing. it was never
possible to establish a true financial picture of the SLCTB for any of the
past years. The problems associated with the absence of an adequate
accounting system (including shortage of qualified personnel) were so
monumental that the resources allocated under the project to address tnem
were totally inadequate. Three financial audits were carried out during
the life of the project, but because the information was largely



-16-
inconsistent and incomplete, the Auditor General could not approve the
accounts. IDA considered suspension of disbursements as a measure to bring
this covenant into compliance; however, this action was not pursued as it
was felt it would be counter-productive.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Institutional Arrangements
49.      The project was designed to benefit public passenger services
which consisted of nine RTBs island-wide and the SLCTB. The nine RTBs and
the SLCTB emerged as the outcome of a reorganization of the former CTB in
1978 which decentralized road passenger operations to the regions, and
placed certain central services such as personnel management, major
procurements involving international transactions. and planning and policy
formulation (including acting on behalf of RTBs in fare reviews with the
government) to the SLCTB. SLCTB also was left with the responsibility for
operating such central facilities as the Ekalla bus body assembly plant and
the central warehouse at Werahera and workshops. The project
implementation was conceived so that SLCTB would play a principal
intermediary role of acting on behalf of the government, at the same time
helping the RTBs with the physical execution of the project. This was the
plan of action conceived in the decentralization act of 1978 which iA turn
formed the institutional framework under which the execution of the Road
Passenger Transport Project was predicated.
Institutional Achievements
50.      At the inception of the project, the benefits resulting from the
devolution of operational decision making through decentralization had not
yet materialized. In the course of the execution of the project, a problem
surfaccl which threatened to impede not onlyr project execution but also
interfered with the day-to-day running of the passenger services. In its
central role for personnel deployment for itself and for the nine RTBs,
SLCTB was responsible for most procurement of materials and supplies, and
control of the central warehouse and provincial and central workshops. This
arrangement forced the RTBs to become virtually dependent on SLCTB even on
day-to-day matters. One of the institutional achievements under this
project was the transfer of a number of important responsibilities from the
SLCTB to the RTBs. For example, SLCTB agreed to transfer provincial
workshops including their ownership and management to the RTBs. Thus many
of the RTBs did not have to deal with SLCTB in Colombo whenever they needed
the services that the provincial workshops were able to provide.
51.      SLCTB also left to each RTB the responsibility of doing its own
purchases for ordinary materials and supplies which did not involve
international transactions. Therefore. the main institutional achievement
in this regard was that of the GOSL permitting more operational autonomy to
the RTBs whose operations were too centralized. A secondary achievement
was the simple recognition by SLCTB/RTBs that they had to adopt modern
managerial tools of analysis to avoid making costly mistakes. Therefore,



-17-
in the latter part of the project, SLCTBIRTB decided that a computer system
was necessary to handle the massive database that was continuously
generated in the course of daily operations.  If properly utilized. and
accurately recorded, the database management system covering nine RTTs and
connected to the central processors at SLCTB would have the capability of
providing management with vital information needed for future decision
making.
52.      The training program carried out under the project was tailored to
improve managerial capabilities in both the RT5s and SLCTB to help it
better operate a modern passenger transport system. This goal was to be
achieved by concentrating on staff at the top management. i.e.. Chairman of
the RtBs and the SLCTB Chairman and his General Manager, and later expanded
to include second tier managers--namely head of key departments such as
traffic operations, maintenance and finance. A total of 71 persons were
involved in this program. most of whom visited organizations in selected
European and North American countries which were engaged either in the
manufacture of transport equipment or operation of passenger transport
service. The training program which was contracted out and managed by
London Transport International. was well organized and well received by the
beneficiaries.
Institutional Shortfalls
53.      Generally institutional performance in helping to achieve the
objectives of the project was unimpressive. First. the new organizational
structure of the public bus transport system was in its early post-
inception period following the decentralization act of June 1978 from which
the nine RTBs and the SLCTB were created. Also, the management capability
needed to match the complexity both in the magnitude of operations and the
geographic coverage, created difficulties during the entire implementation
of the project. To cite a specific example, for sometime the nine RTBs had
operated under direct control from the SLCTB to the extent that these
boards were for all practical purposes operating as though they were
regional divisions of the SLCTB. Virtually all major decisions. (contrary
to the spirit of the decentralization act) were made by SLCTB with little
involvement from the RTBs. In the period between credit effectiveness and
February 1983. the managements of the RTBs had changed at least once and
that of the SLCTB had four changes in its top management. This caused a
continuous situation of management in transition which then caused decision
making to be a secondary concern. Management nonetheless, stabilized
beginning in 1983 when renewed enthusiasm in pursuing the project
objectives became apparent from the new management of the SLCTB.
54.      Secondly, the SLCTB and RTBs were no exception to the traditional
staffing constraints many public enterprises normally face. i.e.. the
tendency to overemploy at the unskilled to semi-skilled level. and an
inability to attract qualified personnel at higher levels due to
unattractive employment terms. In 1980, public bus operations (SLCTB and
'Tis combined) had 60,000 employees--an average of about eight employees
per bus in the fleet. In contrast, these operations had few (if any)
employees who pose ied the requisite experience and qualification directly
needed in the many units of the bus operations. For instance in the entire
operation involving millions of Rs in daily transactions there was no



-18-
single qualified accountant in any of the nine RTBs or the SLCTB itself.
Much of the labor force was unionized which rendered staff redundancies a
near-impossibility.
55.      Thirdly, the advent of the private operators which began in 1979,
brought in a competitive environment in the passenger service for which the
public bus operators were not prepared. In addition. the absence of a
definite policy of the government for route licensing of the private
operators in the initial period of entry into the passenger service unduly
favored the private operators, as they were left with complete freedom to
operate on any route any time without notice.
56.      For a time the private operators became too ad hoc and unreliable
for the public to depend on them. The government. after receiving
complaints from the traveling public as well as from the SLCTBIRTBs
established a directorate in the MOT to oversee an orderly operation of the
private operators principally through a route licensing arrangement. The
objective of the directorate was to see that while operators would have
freedom of choosing routes and of determining the level of service of bus
trips. they would be required to advertise their timetables. Although
monitoring the operations of the private operators was never easy, a
remarkable level of public satisfaction was achieved indicating that the
route licensing instituted in the HOT paved the way for a more orderly
operation of the private bus operators.
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
57.      The economic evaluation methodology adopted in the SAR was based
on using fare receipts as a proxy for the estimated economic benefits
resulting from the provision of road passenger transport services under the
project. Based on this methodology, the SAR shows total benefits of
USS102.2 million in 199Z, the last year of the analysis. and an estimated
economic rate of return of 20.42. In carrying out an economic reevaluation
of the project, the same methodology used in the SAR normally would be
adopted to compare what was expected during appraisal with what actually
happened during project implementation.
58.      In this case. however, the calculation of fare receipts as the
benefit of being able to make desired trips, i.e. meetin& a travel demand,
yielded a negative return because fare receipts have been well below costs
and. SLCTB's operational losses have been met by government subsidies for
the past several years. This macro approach would not adequately isolate
the effects of adding 1.618 buses procured under the project to a fleet of
about 7,300 SLCTB buses. Moreover, a number of unforeseen events occurred
since the appraisal of the project in 1979, making the rbefore" and *after"
the project comparison inappropriate. First, there was a great expansion
of privately operated buses after 1979 which captured about 50X of the
market by 1986. During this period, the SLCTB fleet capacity remained more
or less unchanged. Second, ethnic disturbances in three provinces
substantially reduced bus operations in those areas despite a resurgence in
overall economic activity.



-19-
59.      For reasons stated above, therefe-, the economic reevaluation has
been carried out using two different appro.nest (a) consumer surplus and
(b) comparative cost. These two approaches measure the project's benefits
more accurately than the estimated fare receipts.
Corqumers' Surplus Alproach
60.      The full benefits of the project are best reflected by the maximun
amount each person would be willing to pay rather than forego his trip.
The fares paid by the users in fact represent only the minimum amounts,
i.e., the amounts they are required to pay, rather than the amounts they
would be willing to pay. The estimation of consumers' surplus requires
knowledge of the shape and slope of the demand curve for bus
transportation. A rough indication of elasticities was derived from the
effects of past fare increases on traffic volumes.
61.      Information on the fare increases, operated seat kms and passenger
kma for the buses is shown in Table 6 (page 34). It is assumed that the
privately-owned buses, after their reintroduction in 1979, followed the
same fare pattern as the public buses. as suggested in the S:i Lanka
Transport Sector Study-I In considering the data, individual years are
analyzed with and without the fare increases, to provide sufficiently short
time periods that incomes, alternative means of transportation and other
factors can be considered to remain relatively constant. and to some
degree, support the assumption that  uther things remain equal.* In the
comparisons, the full effects of each price increase are assumed to occur
in the year following each fare increase.
62.      As shown in Table 6, there were 17.5 billion passenger kma in
1977. Fares were increased by an average of about 25S in July 1978. This
was a period of rapidly itcreasing demand, attributed to the newly-
liberalized economic policies of the government. If a relatively high
"normal growth rate in demand of 182 per year from 1977 to 1979 is
assumed, there would have been about 24.4 billion passenger kms in 1979,
compared with the actual 23.3 billion. Thus, with an average increase of
about 251 in fares, passenger kms decreased by about 4.5?. This indicates
a low price elasticity of demand (around .18) over this price range. and
suggests that people were willing to pay considerably more than they were
required to paw.
63.      In 1979. there were no fare increases and 23.3 billion passenger
kan. Fares were increased by an average of about 451 in March 1980 and a
further 752 in November L980. Total passenger kms for 1981 were 25.4
billion. Assuming the growth rate of 16S per year from 1979 to 1981
without the fare increase. there would have been about 31.3 billion
passenger kms. Thus, a compound fare increase of about 1552 resulted in a
decrease of about 18.81 in traffic, implying a price elasticity of demand
of about 0.12 over this price range.
64.      In 1982 there were no fare increases and 28.2 billion passenger
km. Fares were -screased by 25Z in March 1983 and an average of about 24Z
in August 1983. ..ie total for 1984 was 29.3 billion passenger kms.
1/ 1966, Vol. 3, pages 3-12.



-20-
AsSUing a "normal" growth rate of 12? per year between 1982 and 1984
(similar to 1982, when there was no price increase), there would have been
33.8 blllion passenger kms in 1984. Thus, a compound fare increase of 501
resulted in a traffic decrease of 17.22. Again, the results indicate a low
price elasticity of demand (0.35), although the elasticity is tending to
increase at this higher fare level.
65.      The buses under this project were added to the fleet between 1982
and 1986 to replace old buses, but 1984 was taken as the average year in
which all buses were assumed to be added. If all riders of the publicly-
owned buses had paid full fares, the total estimated revenue from private
and public bus operations in 1984 would be Rs 0.188 per passenger km times
29.3 billion passenger kms, or about Rs 5,303 million. Using a base year
of 1984 and assuming a price elasticity of demand of 0.5 (higher than the
analyses shown in Table 6) and a linear demand curve above the 1983 faro
level, the consumers' surplus would be about Rs 2,080 million or 392 of
fare revenue. In other words, the total benefit of the service provided by
the new buses would be about 392 greater than the fare revenue.
66.      This is a simplification of a complex issue. in part because it
uses a static analysis technique applied to a dynamic situation over a
period when there were almost certainly shifting demand curves. However.
the assumptions have generally been conservative, tending to overstate the
demand elasticities and thus understate the consumers' surplus. As an
example, if the 1983 fare increases had taken place one year earlier, they
would not have had a greatly different effect on total passenger kms than
they had in 1984. The actiual ridership in 1983 was 30.3 billion passenger
k1m with an average posted fare of Rs 0.121 per passenger km, resulting in
revenue of Rs 3,654 million.
67.      If the fare increase had taken place in 1982. estimated ridership
in 1983 would have been 13.32 less, or 26.7 billion. at a fare of
Rs 0.181, resulting in revenue of Rs 4,833 million. It can thus be implied
that riders would have been willing to pay additional fares amounting to
Rs 1,179 million, or 32?, in 1983. It should be noted that this estimate
considers only the consumers' surplus between the fare levels of Rs 0.121
and Rs 0.181, and does not include the remaining consumer surplus under the
portion of the demand curve above Rs 0.181, yet it is almost as high as the
estimate of 39? based on demand elasticities. This tends to confirm the
conservative nature of the estimates, and therefore, a consumers' surplus
of 39? of revenue is used in the subsequent analysis.
68.      It is assumed that the 1,618 new buses provided under the project
would have average lives of 12 years, with average utilization of 240 kms
per day and 75? of the new buses in operation on any given day. With 54
seats per bus and load factors averaging 812, they would produce
approzimately 4.65 billion passenger kms per year. Assuming all passengers
pay the full posted fares (or alternatively, assuming that the benefits to
those traveling under concessionary fares are the same as in those paying
full fares), the revenue at Rs 0.181 per passenger km would be Rs 841
million per year. The total benefits, including the consumers' surplus of
39?, would be Rs 1.170 million per year.



-21-
69.      The average operating cost of the publicly-owned buses in 1965 was
estimated at Re 6.91 per bus km, excluding depreciation.21 It is assued
that the improved maintenance, fuel efficiency and operations will reduce
this by an average of St, resulting in operating costs of Rs 6.56 per bwu
km and Rs 0.15 per passenger km. The operating cost at 4.65 billion
passenger kmJ per year would then be Rs 698 million per year yielding
annual net benefit of Rs 472 billion.
70.      It is assumed that the proportions of financial and economic
values are the same for both costs and benefits. With benefits of Rs 472
billion per year for 12 years, starting in 1984, the present value of the
benefits as of the beginning of 1984, at a discount rate of lOZ per year,
is Rs 3,216 million. It is assumed that the full expended project costs of
Rs 1,941.8 million were required to obtain the benefits and operating cost
levels estimated above, with the costs assumed to have been expended ln
'.983. Under these assumptions, the benefit-cost ratio would be 1.7; the
net present value Rs 1,274.2, and the internal rate of return 22.1Z per
year. This is very close to the estimated rate of return of 20.42 shown in
the SAR.
Comparative Cost Approach
71.      An alternative approach is to assume that, in the absence of the
project, the privately-owned buses would provide the capacity which the
project would otherwise have provided. Under this approach. the total
costs of the service are compared with and without the project.
72.      The private sector operated rather efficiently in maintaining low
cost levels, but tends to operate primarily medium and small-sized buses
because of capital constraints. The weighted average privately-owned bus
in 1985 was estimated to have 21.5 seats, a load factor of 892. and total
operating costs (including cepreciation but excluding interest) estimated
at Re 4.17 per bus km. Rs 0.194 per L.z,t km and Rs 0.218 per passenger km.
For the estimated 4.65 billion passenger kms per year provided under the
project, the cost using privately-owned buses would be Ru 1,014.
73.      The average operating cost for the publicly-owned buses in 1985
was Rs 7.95 per bus km, including the addition of Ru 0.77 to put
depreciation costs on a replacement basis. However, this is based on the
existing, overaged fleet and the resulting high maintenance costs. For the
new project buses, it is estimated that the cost would be Rs 7.75 per bus
km. Wlth an average of 54 seats and 81? load factors, this would result in
costs of Rs 0.144 per seat km and Ru 0.177 per passenger km, for a total
cost of Rs 823 million per year. Table 2 shows the age distribution of
SLCTB fleet and Table 3 SLCTB operational indicators.
74.      The cost saving of using public rather than private buses would be
Rs 191 million per year, with a 12-year present value of Rs 1,301 million
which discounted at 102 per year.  In this total-.ost approach. the capital
costs are included in the operating costs in the form of depreciaticen. It
thus does not lend itself to the calculation of a benefit-cost ratiu or
rate of return. However, the present value of the savings, Ru 1.301
2/ Transport Sector Study, Vol. 3, Table 4-1.



-22-
million, can be roughly equated to the net present value of Rs 1,274
million estimated under the consumers' surplus approach. and indicates that
the results are similar.
75.      It should be noted that this result does not imply a judgment
regarding the relative efficiencies of the public and private operators.
The private operators maintain higher average load factors which reduce
their costs per passenger km. but possibly at the cost of a higher degree
of rider discomfort. They also have lower overhead costs, which represent
a real economic advantage. In general, however. the lower costs of the
private operators are offset by the more cost-effective large buses used by
the publicly-owned operation. The results of the analysis. in favor of the
publicly-owned buses, is thus almost entirely a function of bus size rather
than of public versus private operating efficiency.
76.      Both the economic reevaluation and the economic analysis contained
in the SAR are fairly rough approximations.  Although three different
approaches have been used, the results of all three are similar, with rates
of return in the 20 to 23Z range. The economic reevaluation had the
benefit of additional information from the 1966 Transport Sector Study and
additional years of traffic and cost data. making the task somewhat easier.
However, it was not possible to make reasonable estimates of the rates of
return on the individual components of the project, such as the technical
assistance, traffic engineering, and improvements to workshops and depots.
All of these components are considered necessary to attain the benefits
estimated above, and their costs are included in the total capital costs.
VIII. THE ROLE OF IDA
77.      After being oat of the sector for almost a decade, IDA sent a
miission to Sri Lanka in December 1977 to review the status of the sector.
The mission identified the needs and recommended areas where IDA could play
an important role in assisting the Sri La.xkan Government.
78.      The rapid deterioration in the conditions of the road network and
the moribund state of the bus fleet were seen as the transport areas where
urgent assistance was needed. Two projects were identified for IDA's
assistance, one of which was the Road Passenger Transport Project, under
IDA Credit 994-CE.
79.      IDA provided most of the funds for the project: at appraisal IDA
financing was anticipated to cover about 61Z of the total funding
requirement. However, due to severe budget constraints of the GOSL and
higher than expected operating deficits of the SLCTB. the IDA credit
eventually accounted for 742 of the total financing. Additionally, as
SLCTB did not possess sufficient capability to prepare the project. a PPF
was requested to engage consultants to prepare the project. Much of the
supervision of the consultants, terms of reference was done by IDA. The
review mission report was completed in 1978 and formed the basis for IDA's
appraisal which visited Sri Lanka in August 1979.



-23-
80.      IDA contributed to the policy reforms that the government
undertook to rewitalize the sector aS a whole, and to road passenger
service in particular. As a result, many restrictions which eliminated
private bus operators in the past were removed which freed then to provide
much needed paesenaer service in competition with the RTBs.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
Proiect Justification and Obiectives
81.      Following an update to the 1966 Transport Sector Report in 1976,
priorities for assistance were identified for the improvement of the road
network and the road passenger service. A separate project under Credit
900-CE (Road Haintenance Project) was designed and implemented under the
Department of Highways to arrest the deterioration of the road network.
The road passenger service which operated under a public monopoly
organization had a bus fleet of about 7,300 consisting of many overaged
buses averaging ten years and older.  Preventive maintenance was either not
done or was erratic at best. Replacement of buses was estimated at about
22 of the fleet size as insufficient investment funds were provided.
whereas growth in the passenger demand was estirated at 8Z and on the rise.
At the time of appraisal, there was no indication that private operators
would emerge to create the significant competition and cause such an impact
on passenger service.
82.      The project was thus seen as justified from the standpoint of the
need to improve bus availability of the RTBs through a program of fleet
replacement and upgrading the vehicle maintenance facilities. in aiming to
meet the growing passenger demand, there was sufficient justification to
support public organizations (SLCTB and RTBs as opposed to private
operators) at the time as private operators had been absent for a number of
years.
Project Context and Scheduling
83.      In retrospect, the project underestimated the consequences of the
radical economic reforms introduced beginning in 1978 after a new
government was elected into office. Among these reforms was the government
policy to lift a long-standing ban on imports and operation of privately
owned passenger vehicles. Further, lucrative incentives and generous tax
rebates were provided to private bus operators. The response of the
private sector ushered in a competitive element in the passenger service,
effectively throwing the operations of the public road passenger service
dad its institutions into a state of disarray. Unable to respond
positively to the pressures of competition from the private operators, the
SLCTBIRTBs became operationally vulnerable and were unprepared to implement
the project in the manner that was originally deemed within their
capabilities.
84.      In addition, there are doubts whether or not the complexity, the
size, and the scope of the project would have permitted a timely completion
considering that both SLCTB and the RTBa were only a few months old. While



-24-
RTBs had h-rdly completed moving into their newly established headquarters
and branch offices in the regions. they were asked to execute various
components of a complex project. The staff lacked the experience and/or
understanding required to achieve the objectives. To further complicate
the issue, government procedures which SLCTB and RTBs were required to
follow were such that decision-making was very cumbersome and caused long
delays in implementation. The appraisal implementation timetable did not
adequately reflect this constraint. The level of complexity which project
execution entailed in relation to the implementation cap:bility of the
SLCTBIRTB suggests that project estimates were ambitious.
Proiect Implementation and Operating Outcomes
85.      Implementation of the project was carried out by consultants.
especially during the initial period. However. practically all contracts
with consultants expired within the original closing date of the credit.
Much of the unfinished work which later was done through extensions of the
closing date of the credit was carried out by the SLCTB!RTBs themselves.
The burden of project implementatiorn proved to be too heavy on SLCTBIRTBs
whose top management was at the same time undergoing continual turnover.
and remained unprepared to make critical decisions on various important
issues of project execution. These problems resulted in numerous delays
bringing the total implementatien time to 61 months compared with the
original plan of 36. Considerable delays were attributable to general
tardiness of the Borrower procurement procedures. Operating outcomes in
many ways fell below expectations. Operating efficiency measured by bus
availability and utilization worsened; operating costs of the RTBs
escalated and financial deficits did not abate even though generous bus
fare increases were approved by the government and promptly administered by
the RTBs.
Sustainability of Proiect Benefits
86.      The project demonstrates the complexities and inefficiencies of a
series of public sector agencies operating bus fleets and emphasized the
constant need for attention to appropriate technical specifications in
fleets; to proper pricing policy and the need to control operating costs.
These lessons were derived from the project but will only be sustained with
a contiaued commitment to sound management principles.  The Transport
Sector Study has been used as the basis for preparation of other transport
projects.



-25-A%L
I
PQJ    COMPLUION RCPORT
ROAD PASSDNGtE tRANSPORT PROJtCT
(CREDIT 994 U)
Cuulativa Disburso  uts: Actual od Estimted
0US5$000)
Appraisal Use.           Actual
FY 1980
4th Quarcer                          37
FT 1961
Ist  Qurcer                          5,054
24d Quarter                          10,031                   265
3rd Quarter                         20,646
4ch Quarter                          26,361                 2,700
FT 1982
Ist Quarter                         32,076
2nd Quarter                         37,791                  5,310
3rd Quarter                         41,593                  7,810
4th Quarter                         4,395                  12,3350
FY 1983
Ist Quarter                         49,197
2nd Quarter                          53,000                16,330
3rd Quarcter                                               20,000
4th Quarter                                                21,750
FT 1984
Ist Quarter                                                25,500
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter                                                27,200
4th Quarter
FT 1981
Ist Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter                                                35,800
FT 1986
Ist Qua3t,45
2nd Quarcer                                                393
3rd Quarter                                                39,998
4th Quairter,                                              51,635 1.1
1I Actually July 2, 1986, but eudiJune regaided as cut-Off date.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CEDT  99*-CE1
Summary of Halor Covenants and Status of Compliance
Aureement     Sect-on        Status               Desc-lPtion                              CeXnent5
Cretit        3.02 A                       Subsidiary loan agreeoment
betwoen borrower and SLCTD.
Credit        3.07         Complied        borrower to furnish IDA with          An action comuittew wOa turnOd
policy stat5emnt re private           by the Minister of lranaport
sector role In passenger              boards tO detine rols at private
transport.                            sector &nd mes recoefinoftions
to *ove*rewet.  A directorate
of privato conibus was estlairbnda.
Credit        3.01         Partially       borrower to taue measuras to          Provisional tigur*s of profit and
Luumpl tit     r5iucS op5erting losses,               lose statseent pr SpdtCu by SLEISI
show a toos ot aoOut Us 311 million
for 1985 compared with a laOS
of as 09 omillon for 1982.
Credit        3.09         Cunipl ed       Borrower to arrange that each         Route costing eMercibd island-wide
pTS adjubt fores according to         was carrlod out which loan formed
SLCI0 gudelineS,                      tngo basis for fire adjustments.
Credit        3.10         con.plied       SLCTI and RI0s not to meae Any
capital *mpanditures over
as 50.000.000 in one financial
(I!
year.                                                                                 * X
Credit        3.10 B                        uot  udistea accunts5reports aue.    Uue to the deplOrable conaltion of
Complied                               ~~~~~~~~~the occoutaftini functions auoits of
Complied                                             hoth the SLCTS and AlTs can oistea
logged behind and were generally
unse isfectory.



Auree_ent      Sectlon      Stastum                DRbription                                 Coments
Project        2.02         Complied        SECTB to employ consultants to          Consultants were engaged in procurnent,
oa&lst in corrying out ports           inventory emneguumnt, route costing,
A-0-C-E of projoct.                    and ccounting services; but their ispat
upan the project was only odest.
Project        2.04 A       Compiled        hLC1B to trdnbter per timetable          Bus and some of tle provinetll workshops
equipment and facilities to             have tronsferred.
eacn RTB.
Project        3.03 A       Partially       SLCTO to appoint *tabk force to          Sume rualmwiets of Corporato Ploi  meta
Complied        formulate corporate plon for            developead by SLC!I.
SLCIB and RBIs.
Project        3.04         Complied        RIBs to p1dcc  ltmttalions on            &ttorts hna oeeui madO tu reauu,.  Ilk *
services to reflect avoil-              competition from private operatur*
ubilitV of properly saIntained          heightened.
Project        3.05         Complied         SLCTO to adopt btdtfing level           Over 6,500 staft hdav  let . must ot
guldelIneS fOf SLCTO and *TB*.          them under a *Voluntary Setireomumt
Schem". out of total of 60.000
.eplovees.
*:11
09
Io 



-28-                                                  Table L
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGCR TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
Actual and Original Estimates of Project Costs
fjwn I US0 1 uillm
t&:t t "Ktlj ktS E eVurm                                                        t@t                 kIlS LeIZ6 
Rawe Ceaonemt         Eszuctul         IcIval         Euegctue       kctua            Euumtfi         acual         f1u"ttd
.1.I.a  Units * eur              0.49 "        '.54             :'2           3.01              2.4  i        0.59
III Cntieed esun                           0.50                           3.1O                  I          .1
2.   Previwugul Inweshn        1.91          t.l2             3.31          I.HS.:                          2.14            lIJI
3.   Central uetwaas           0.0?         0.04            0.29           0.24              0.34           0.3             3.33
2.41          4.n             1.52          12.1              1."          1M.D3          231."
34.t.    he dae                  1.tl  . -     5.01            22.34         23.20             23.11         34.05           113.S4
L    15  uatwials              3.41          O.:t             619           4.59              11.4          1.14            44.9
3.     new                     l.91          1."                 0             0              1.91          1."            1N.
SaltomL                11.23           3.41           31.02          32.?             42.26          41.20           97.
C-l-   N.. dagutin               4.44          4.33             0.31          1.97              7.4           9.79              .14
2.   Eutsitq uepots            0.07          0.05             0.43          0.47              0.52          O.52           100.00
Eguigast                 0.14           0.23            2.03          0.47              2.42          0.90            34.22
7.2!           5.1            1:4            3.11             10.59          6.21            7.53
0.1.   Laud                      0.21             0                0             0              0.21             0            0.00
;.   Cinstuct                 0.11             0             0.07             0              0.13             0            0.00
Subtotal                0.32              0            0.07              0             0.39              0            0.00
tl-    Cesdtate                  0 16             0       I      .110          1.86      I       .tO          1.U    5.
2.   Trsug0.04                                  0             0..           0.9               0.30          0.93           314.47
Sbtile                  0.30              0            1.44           2.31             ;. ?           2..I          1:.42
f.     CuI,qunmu                12.03                          12.09                           24.91
TOTIL.                    21.9          17.7            51.4          53.42             6.3           b1.23            0.23



- 29 -                         Tabl 2
PiOJECT COXPLE'fON REPORT
SRi LANKA
ROAD PASSENGCE TRANsPORT PIOJECT
(CREDIT 99*-CE)
Bus Fleet Maior- Character1stecs
Number (Buses)
1.  Iype                 Seacinf  Capacity (Sists)          1980       19|5
A                      ~~~~~~52                   I        so
B(2                   4710      4016
C                               30                     1481       1423
D                               28                     1139      1142
t          ~~~E 22                                                  ISO        let
Luxury Buses                    2?                        03
19c0                            98
2.  Age Oiscribution          No.          X                 No.t
Over 20 years              44        0.6                   2          0
t6-20                527         7.2                261        3.6
14-15                679         9.3                771       10.6
10-13               1267        17.3                955       13.0
5-9                2725        37.2               3309       15.1
Under 5                  2QI0       28.4                2031       27.J
7322      100.0                7335      100.0
3.  Average Age               7.9                            t.7
4.                        Acquisitions and Scrappings (buses)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    Totat
New auses           -       -    660    400    408    150    1618
Scrapped          542    334    313    259    78r    397    2125
Overhauls         348    916    631    456    456    428    3136
l



la:cl co1iw t6aw
;:4.     11 SaSfINS1 38350  1.JC  - tl Ill MA44U
St;tl;s CLfWliUG ;5tCAIlKS    (RTBa)
......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ................
fledt hula.tml  S&ChS *ll                                     89b                        11 982                                    '11 Il4                                                  llCS
................................                              ...................                                                                                                ........ ... .  ....  ....  .... .. . .... ....
l.tal Fled  lbow.)                                           isJI                       ;::14                      -I45                       ha                     I:5                     1:
btber la w.lee                                                  N                         44                     52                           'A41                    ' 
8A"lt p     0 *  l8t                                          :.9  38439 Jee.             *.4                                                                          -                      1.1
4ap o*.uiI.@  WAS)   Af.W                                      'A                         54                     'U                              *                     5*                      S
Mae   wIt w    bt  I  94wlt
b*s ..q.d                                                      W                          ;;UI                                                 ZI                      PU                     397
kgbum    ln   t#                                               all           81 ,55                                                            4                       s                      11
he 1ea4,6    ,    inqaa.    q          a                      ES.4 -i i:.:                                                                                                                  18j.9
lsn  1.           spu.atsttl          I                      45.                        48.                       .                                                  * .                      4.9
10.611|g latorp lleo
ht.el roblwo   I.f le)                I                      8 58                      5745                    595*                          s't:.                  84:w .
buat ##wkws, arnhied                                                                    MA I8.  .4.7.1                                                                                        .S
Pas_ri  bid  g3tt                     I                      If.;                       *5..                    Ib.2                          *5.4                    5.8                    68.l
hip  IWue*. 4i s                                                                         32.                     12.1                         I;.4                    1;.1                     4.9                        W
C
khd.Itw    b1 Is                       N.:.. v.                                                                815.1                         cll.8                  :.a,C
SiM61I4 84144                                                                                                  M 1 ;.4  2(AS.I  23Th.                                IN4A. 8S               8ta?
4wtUd bee                              : 1                   :IRi.6                     45.t.5                                            411..                        .2                  41.2
bw*8N  P"Wat I1                        N                   :24.                       IIIU  .1                                               Ullt                  141:2.4                  14 .
118ac,m*v MsaWfl
P.ss..qu  set ewot,t                                       :ra.i.;                    25it.:.5 5Rs~.2                                      :;sa5.                  2   1,:                 IJSz.1.
Fuuqu be .t  u.fr..e                                          ih                       NW81                   543281                        ;1e58                   si.I
11_Sewisw            0%10.0                                 *l1.1                      ;g1 %1tl                                             ;ItSil                   :                     5
Pnauu wil% per adWiLtu.
IIavu  ,  lt Ot1edS                                            1.8
*nP_I pq gt.4g                         f                      ;.:7                       2.6                     '.n                          :..                    :.As                     :44
ubale IllistaSo.                                               :9                         3*                     :3                            2                       2                       23
Is   tap PIC     1w *U tt it4ll *eIa     .            1!.; * x'..a                         n?                     N1                  i.H9  3Sf.9                    38.99
tat  MuollvS)g. *8a   8k                                                    *1.1  3. 1.631 ind1.35.1.638
*A emS h. huewn
11WSWtl F"" wt   a                    ft.
_p ft_ w p                      to    t-.                                                                                                       ; 14                    M                       U
hw.s     cod I    ."s'     k   -       IIL *umi s                                                                                               lb1 '   
SGINVAIp u to~    w.                                                                    1." A-&1 Su* 1-2                                                                                     2.
au w ,"_ff ow"Tf                       l                      .1                           **-



-31-                                         T        4ble4
PROJECT CONFLETIOW R ORT
ROAD PASGEn TRASPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 994-CE)
Estimted (1982-1985) Operating  ReSuLts - Combined RTRs
(Re. '001
1992            1993              1994            1965
Fl"t site                         1,453           7,43k              7,225           7,335
Kilos operated (stiliZft            482             4S?                47              J02
Orating Revenue               1,765,913       1,961,123         2,494,219        2,f4,131
Operating Expenses            2,116,463       2,329,443         2,718,717        3,078,84
Operating SurpluslDfficit
befgre adjustete             (5,501          1347,320)          (224,4901       (124,40)
Otker Riovue                    200,155         214,913            345,995         372,534
Other Expene                    336,403         190,474            503,79          56.e&6
OPERATIMS SURLUSIDEFICIT    (496,766)          (322,891)          1:82,192)       (316,567)
Souc: SLCTB
l



-32 -                                     Tabl   ;
PROJICT COMMION RE"ORT
sar LmaN
ROAD PASSKn  TRaSPoT PgoJS2C
(CRED?T 994..CK)
Revenues and E=wens - SLCTB (Est1tS!)
1980           lY             192            1983            1,3            1
Rs.            Ru.            Rs.            Rs.             R.
Not Iradin  ProfitiLoss werkshops    133,273,120     76,798,42      110,4:0,304     72,147,345     IS       )    lt,W'
Loss Oupieciatim                       31,883,92      5,746,49       6,53,232        4,733          3,301,949      3,?
1i9,3017,923    7,051,934    104,077n,022     45,54,124       (4,340,422)    13,02
Add son-traffic ruumpts               74,235,293    105,524,755     59,414,332      33,945,943     5,U410,8353    3,57C
203,473,224   176,17,099    1343491n,35       99,499,974      44,570,431     411
L.a Eustb1ishhat uno,puu              52,554,414       9,403,312     60,595,933     45,037,351     50,"39,911     53,591
151,119,550    107,175,371     62,895,Q64     34,042,023    (t0,2l42)1   (9,02
Los n  Jaterut                         9,214,743      8,70s,525      10,157,05t     10,733,543     12,17,715)   (14,554
Profit before keas                   141,903,307     98,445,852     72,738,308      23,274,00      (71,441,32?)    4,154
Lose Bons                                395,54          440,322       404,180         02,020         433,20         452
Profit (Lose) before Bonh            141,318,243     91,925,530     72,132,1'8      22,672,040     (9,015,093)    4,301.
Incu  Tax                                      0              0              0               0              0
14,3804        e                   -82      n me              a n 32e1
NET PROFITILOSS                      141,319,243     97,625,530     72,132,!       :2,672,040      19,075,093)     4,301.
Sourcs: Conaoltats Estiutus



~~~~~- -                                         - 
SRI
OR OJEC CO~LTZO   PR
(CREWSIT 994-Cl)
Eutimates of Price ElasSicUtles of Demand
Operated Seat Ka I 1    Pas*sngr Ka                          Assumed 
Eat                                                                UeInol'   Pass.                 ccrease     got Iele d
Awerage                                                     Growth   Growth    Km *t         s          to           Pr4t*
fare     5LCTO  Private  Total  SLCTS  Private letal    late          Oate    'orinl'  Incresoe  Passeer   Elasttcistes
Mr  IfsIP{si)       I   iBtill LELLL1 111)  tells) 31lf)  (I go)   ( Da}.          arowth   in fares 
371   0.0300    19.3              19.8    I5.2             15.2
70   0.0300    19.9              19.9    16.6             16.6    9.21%
177   0.0330    20.1              20.1    17.5             37.5    5.42%
l7i   0.0380    22.?             22.7    20.4             20.4   16.51% 1n.00%
79   0.0475    24.1       1.2    24.1    22.2      1.1   23.3   14.22%  16.00%        24.40     25.00%       4.51%        13.04%
s0   0.0475    25.8       2.9    25.8    22.1       2.6   2S.3    a.sos  tS.00%
SI   0.1210    24.7       7.8    24.a    18.5      6.9   25.4    0.40%  33.00%        31.30    154.74%       Is.35$        12.13%
32   0.1210    24.1    10.7    24.2    36.7        9.5  -28.2   11.02%  12.00%
13   0.1310    22.9    14.9    23.1    16.9    13.3   30.2    7.09%  12.00%           35.37      49.59%      37.30%        34.65%
14   0.1810    20.8    15.4    ?1.0    15.6    13.7   29.3   -2.90%  12.00%
y~



