Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FIL 1                     ;
Report No. 2716-CE
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 22, 1980
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               Rs 15.6
Rs 1               US$0.064
Rs 1 million       US$64,103
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AG    -  Auditor General
CGR   -  Ceylon Government Railways
CMC   -  Colombo Municipal Council
CTB   -  Ceylon Transport Board
DOH   -  Department of Highways
GOSL  -  Government of Sri Lanka
GVW   -  Gross Vehicle Weight
IDB   -  Industrial Development Board
MOFP  - Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOPH  -  Ministry of Power and Highways
MOT   -  Ministry of Transport
PPF   -  Project Preparation Facility
RTB   -  Regional Transport Board
SLCTB - Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TTR   -  Timetable Requirement
UDA   -  Urban Development Authority
WOP   - Without the Project
WP    -  With the Project
GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIA]L USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...................................                          1
A.   Geographic,  Economic  and Demographic  Setting  ....1... 
B.   The Transport  System  ...............................                        2
C.   Passenger Traffic  ..................................                        4
II.    THE INSTITUTIONS  .......................................                           6
III.    OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT  ............................. .                          7
A.   Organization  and Management:   SLCTB  ....                   ............   7
B.   The  Industrial Facilities  and Central
Services  of SLCTB  ................................                      8
C.   Proposed Solutions  for SLCTB Problems  ....                   ..........    11
D.   The Regional Transport  Boards  ......................    12
E.   Operations  of the RTBs  .............................    13
F.   The Size of SLCTB/RTBs Workforce  ....................    14
IV.    THE PROJECT ............................................    16
A.   Background ..........................................    16
B.   Objectives  .......................................                         16
C.   Description  .......................................                        17
D.   Cost Estimates  .....................................                       21
E.   Execution of the Project  .........                ..................    22
F.   Procurement  .......................................                        22
G.   Retroactive Financing  ...........               ...................    24
H.   Disbursement  .......................................    24
V.    FINANCIlL ASPECTS OF SLCTB/RTBs  ........... .............    25
A.   Pasi: Results  .......................................    25
B.   Future Forecasts:   SLCTB  .........               ..................    26
C.   Future Forecasts:   RTBs .             ...........................    27
D. Fares ........................................  28
E.   Financing Plan  .....................................                       28
This report was prepared by Eric Pogson (Financial Analyst) and Max Pulgar-Vidal
(Economist) (Bank) assisted by I. W. Mitchell and S. Lamb (consultants) who
together with D.  Rowe  (consultant)  formed the appraisal mission  in August
1979. Y. Abe, S. Thriscutt and E. Pogson (Bank) participated in preparation
missions assisted by M. Heraty and D. Rowe (consultants). Mr. Srinivasan
Chandramouli  (Research Assistant)  constructed  a financial  forecasting model
using thie FAST System.
This docunent ha s  rustrictd distribution and may b used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial dutiies. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Ilank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................  31
A.  Sources of Benefits ............. ...................  31
B.  Costs and Benefits ..................................   34
C.  Conclusions ........................................   35
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......   ..................  36
TABLES
1 -   Population Distribution and Urbanization
2 -   Bus and Rai.l Passenger Traffic
3 -    Summary of Action Plan
4 -   operational Indicators Ceylon Transport Board 1968-79
5 -   Forecast of Operational Indicators - Regional
Transport Boards: 1980-83
6 -    Comparison of Operational Indicators Among Regional
Transport Boards: 1978-79
7 -    Schedule of Economic Benefits and Costs:  1980-92
8 -    Investment Schedule
9 -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Credit
10 -   Documents Available in the Project File
ANNEXES
I     Description and Cost of Project Components
2     Monitoring Indicators
3     Financial Forecasts
CHARTS
20937   Project Components and Sub-components, Effects and Benefits
20956   Implementation Schedule
20905   Organization of SLCTB at September 1979
20935   A Suggested Management Structure for SLCTB
20936   Organization of a Regional Transport Board September 1979
MAP
IBRD Map No. 14654



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Geographic, Economic and Demographic Setting
1.01      Sri Lanka is an island 270-miles long by 140-miles wide, located off
the southeast coast of India, not far from the equator. The topography of
the country is dominated by a highland massif situated in the southern central
part of the island, which rises to peaks of over 7,000 ft, and is surrounded
by an intermediate zone consisting of ridges and valleys. Beyond these lies
an outer or lower coastal lowland zone, which broadens to a vast tract in the
north. Annual rainfall varies from 40 inches in the driest zones of the north-
west and east to over 200 inches at certain places in the mountainous region.
1.02      Economic growth in the period 1970-77 has been about 3.0 percent per
annum, far below tbLe needs of the country and the potential offered by avail-
able human and natural resources; in per capita terms, the rate of economic
growth was a disappointing 1.2 percent per annum. The poor performance of
the economy has been caused by a combination of factors resulting in a policy
environment unconducive to growth, investment and adequate resource alloca-
tion. In the transport sector, the economic malaise was translated into slow
growing or stagnating freight and passenger traffic levels, but there is some
evidence that the trend has already begun to improve as part of the current
revitalization of the Sri Lankan economy.
1.03      About 40 percent of Sri Lanka's GDP is generated in the agricul-
tural sector, and about 15 percent in the manufacturing sector. As a result,
most inland freight transport in Sri Lanka consists of agricultural commod-
ities such as foodgrains (rice and wheat) and tree crops (tea, rubber and
coconut) as well as other bulk goods such as cement and oil products. The
patterns of commodity movements are dictated by the geographical distribution
of the agricultural-surplus areas, which include the coconut and rubber-
producing southwest coast and the rubber and tea-producing hilly areas in
the central part of the country. Due to the concentration of most manufac-
turing industries in Colombo, the location there of the country's major port,
and the import-export orientation of Sri Lanka's economy, about 50 percent
of total freight is moved into and out of the Colombo area; as a result,
freight and passenger traffic in this urban area strongly compete with each
cther for the utilization of street space.
1.04      The demographic trends, the spatial distribution of the population
and the degree of urbanization in the country determine, to a large extent,
the volune and pattern of inland passenger traffic. The following are the
relevant facts:
(i)  The total population is currently estimated at about 14.4
million, having increased at about 1.7 percent per annum
over the period 1970-76.
(ii)  The spatial distribution of the population is far from
uniform (Table 1). The southwest part of the island and
the northern peninsula, which together amount to only one-
third of Sri Lanka's total area, contain about 80 percent



- 2 -
of the country's population. Population density is partic-
ularly high in the western province, where the capital
city of Colombo is located. Attempts are currently being
made by the government to encourage internal migration
out of densely settled areas and into the sparsely popu-
lated dry zones by providing irrigation, the Mahaweli
Ganga scheme being a case in point.
(iii)  Sri Lanka displays a higher degree of urbanization than
other countries in the region. It is estimated that
over one-fourth of the total population is located
in urban settlements, and there is evidence that the
degree of urbanization will continue to increase as the
growth rate of the urban population is about twice that
of the entire population in the country. Nearly half the
urban dwellers live in Greater Colombo, which is also the
seat of Government, the main financial and commercial
center, and the largest urban concentration of the island.
The relevance of urbanization to total demand for travel
lies in the fact that trip rates in Sri Lanka, i.e.,
journeys per day per capita, are at least three times
higher among urban dwellers than in rural areas.
B. The Transport System
1.05      The transport modes and facilities available in Sri Lanka include
roads, railways, ports, airports, and pipeline. Only roads and railways are
relevant to inland passenger transport, and will be dealt with in this report.
The main entities providing passenger transport are the state-owned Sri Lanka
Central Transport Board (SLCTB) and nine Regional Transport Boards (RTBs),
involved in bus transport, and the Ceylon Government Railways (CGR), which
operates freight and passenger services; all are under the control of the
Ministry of Transport (MOT).
1.06       Compared to other countries of South Asia, Sri Lanka has a rela-
tively extensive and well-developed road network consisting of about 24,900
kms maintained by the Department of Highways (DOH), of which 18,200 are paved;
and 16,100 kms of roads built for specific estates and irrigation purposes.
Most roads are fairly old; inadequate alignments and insufficient maintenance
of pavement and bridges combine to cause low average traffic speeds and high
vehicle operating costs. It is estimated that average speeds range from about
20 kph in rural hilly areas and congested urban areas, to about 36 kph in long
stretches over flat contryside. Road transport is, the most important mode
in Sri Lanka as Table A indicates:



-3-
Table A:  Modal Split (%I%) ALL ISLAND
Type of Traffic   Modes         Units                1972         1977
Passenger      .ural)    (passengers                94/6         96/4
Traffic       \)us,ral,      (passenger-kms        82/18        85/15
Freight      (tk/il)    (tons                      90/10        92/8
Traffic                      (ton-kms               70/30        79/21
Source:  Herbert S. Levinson, Wilbur Smith & Associates
"Transportation Plan for Colombo Central Area -
Colombo Master Plan Project," September 1978.
1.07      The size of the motor vehicle fleet, as recorded by the Commissioner
of Motor V'ehicles, was about 218,000 vehicles in mid-1978, including about
100,000 cars and 40,000 trucks. In mid-1979 there were about 7,500 buses;
with the minor exception of buses owned by private tourism comlpanies, most of
the buses in Sri Lanka were operated by the RTBs. In the period 1977/78,
liberalized import regulations and foreign exchange allocation procedures
resulted in a rapidi growth of the total vehicle fleet; such growth, however,
has been tempered by measures adopted by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
directed at reducing its oil imports, including:
(i)  staged increases in fuel prices, in June 1979 and January
1980, with gasoline increased from Rs 20 to Rs 37.50 per
gallon, and diesel fuel from Rs 5.40 to Rs 13.50 per
gallon;
(ii) restrictions on car driving on Sundays; and
(iii) closure of gas stations during weekends.
These measures have reduced gasoline consumption by 25% since June 1979.
1.08      The railway system, which plays a relatively minor role in the
transport: sector, comprises 1,395 kms of broad gauge and 140 kms of narrow
gauge lines. The condition of the infrastructure, bridges and track is
generally reasonable, although there is substantial backlog of track renewal.
The motive power fleet consists of about 230 diesel-powered locomotives.
The rolling stock consists of approximately 4,000 freight cars and 1,200
passenger coaches. The availability of motive power and rolling stock is low
due to lack of spares and a high average age.  The railways are operated by
CGR as a governmernt department directly under MOT. External assistance has
been available to CGR in recent years, mainly from CIDA.
1.09      The 1979-83 Investment Program prepared by GOSL forecasts a GDP
growth rate of 5.5 percent per annum, almost double that of recent years.
Forecasts of freight and passenger traffic, involving annual growth rates of
8 and 7.7 percent respectively, contrast with past trends, but may well be



-4-
justified by the current revitalization of the economy. Within the context of
the 1979 Aid Group Meeting, the World Bank Group advanced some recommendations
concerning the allocations made by the Investment Program within the transport
sector. It was recommended that GOSL review the distribution of proposed
investment between rail and road subsectors, in the light of the predominant
role of road transport in the economy; and that adequate funding be provided
for maintenance and rehabilitation in both subsectors.
1.10      Several proposals for the financing of transport projects were
presented by GOSL during the 1979 Aid Group Meeting. A road passenger trans-
port project proposal, the main thrust of which was the renewal and augmen-
tation of RTBs' fleet, is the basis for the project appraised in this report.
The World Bank Group is also assisting Sri Lanka's transport sector through a
recently approved US$16.5 million Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE)
which will improve the quality of maintenance and reduce the cost of road
transport; the credit was approved on June 22, 1979 and is expected to become
effective in December 1979. The Road Maintenance Project will include the
rehabilitation, improvement or replacement of about 1,000 kms of road and
30 bridges, improvement of highway maintenance practices, and procurement of
road maintenance equipment.
C. Passenger Traffic
1.11      Bus passenger traffic grew slowly in the early 1970s, at a rate of
about 4 percent per annum in terms of passenger and passenger-km (Table 4).
Growth was not continuous, however, and in some years traffic figures stag-
nated or even declined; particularly severe in this respect were the civil
disturbances in 1971/72, the substantial (80%) fare increase in 1974 and the
shortening of the work week that took place in the same year. From 1974
onwards, both the number of passengers and passenger-kms have grown at over
8 percent per annum; this relatively high rate of growth is partly explained
by the low traffic levels attained in 1974. In 1978, bus traffic amounted to
1,744 million passengers travelling 17,827 million passenger-kms. Bus is
nowadays by far the most important mode of public transport in Sri Lanka,
carrying about 96 percent of passengers and about 83 percent of passenger-kms.
That these impressive bus traffic levels have been achieved despite a deterio-
ration in service (paras 3.16 through 3.19) suggests the existence of a high
unsatisfied demand for public passenger transport in the island. This demand
is likely to grow even stronger in the future as a result of recent measures
instituted by GOSL (para 1.07).
1.12      Passenger transport in urban areas is largely dependent on the bus
system, which carries about two-thirds of all passengers; rail accounts for
about one-sixth and private cars for about one-tenth. Vehicular flows in
streets are relatively smooth except for localized congestion in the downtown
area during the peak hours. Non-motorized vehicles such as bullock carts,
horsedrawn carriages and rickshaws are increasingly rare in urban areas, and
virtually non-existent in Colombo.



-5-
1.13      Rtail passenger traffic (Table 2) has also been affected by the same
social and economic events that affected bus traffic levels in the decade.
Rail traffic dropped about 20 percent in 1974 following a 50 percent fare
increase and the reduction in the length of the work week. Recovery was sub-
sequently hindered by labor unrest among rail workers in 1977, and only in
1978 did traffic levels showed some improvement, mainly as a result of addi-
tional passenger carrying capacity. In 1978, traffic levels stood at about
80 million passengers and 3,711 million passenger-kms.
1.14      Intermodal competition between bus and rail is important in the
urban areas, and particularly in Greater Colombo. Indeed, though the nation-
wide rail share of public passenger transport is about 4 percent, this figure
increases to about 1L0 percent within the commuting areas, and reaches the
level of 20 percent during the peak hours. The larger rail sha,re in urban
areas is partly due to the fact that civil servants, who constitute about 40
percent of rail commuters, benefit from a 66 percent rail fare subsidy. The
Government has at various times considered proposals for the electrification
of the suburban commuter lines in Greater Colombo and has recently announced
that this project will be actively pursued. To ensure that any development
is coordinated with the road passenger transport industry, GOSI, confirmed
during negotiations that it will inform IDA of the progress of the electrifi-
cation project and of other significant investments in CGR which would have a
bearing on, the road passenger transport industry.
1.15      For about 20 years, the public sector maintained a monopoly on
regular bus service in Sri Lanka. In April 1979, GOSL decided to permit the
operation of regular bus services by private operators in order to relieve
the chronic overcrc,wding of buses operated by the RTBs, and to provide for
competition in the passenger transport industry. Private bus operators are
licensed by SLCTB on behalf of MOT; the licensing system is excessively
restrictive in a number of ways, e.g., the short duration of the license
validity period, the absence of objective criteria for the selection of routes
on which 'Licensed vehicles may operate, the restrictions placed upon the
maximum number of passengers that may be carried, and the limitation of com-
petition among private operators. On the other hand, the licensing system
does not require from the private operators the provision of year-round serv-
ices according to determined timetables; in this respect, the system has
encouraged tourist bus operators to increase the utilization cf their vehicles
during the off-season, but has not established the basis for strong partici-
pation of the private sector in the provision of regular schedLuled bus serv-
ices. About 100 private buses and minibuses had been licensed by mid-1979
and this figure is unlikely to have increased significantly. The effect of
private bus services on the operations of the RTBs is negligible and not even
in the medium-term are they expected to significantly affect them because of
the existence of unsatisfied demand. Even at the end of the project period
the RTBs are not expected to be able to satisfy demand and there is a case for
an introduction of private operators on a larger scale than alt present. A
committee was established by MOT in August 1979 to study the role of private
operators; in the passenger transport subsector. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that the scope of such study would include:



- 6 -
(a)  a definition of the anticipated size of the private and
public sectors;
(b)  a definition of where the RTBs would compete with the
private sector;
(c)  a statement of sections of traffic which might be reserved
for the private sector;
(d)  the establishment of a Licensing Authority; and
(e)  any changes in import duties or taxes needed to place the
private sector on the same footing as the RTBs.
The Government has agreed to furnish to IDA, not later than December 31,
1980 its statement of policy concerning the participation of the private
sector in road passenger transport, with a timetable for implementation of
necessary measures.
II. THE INSTITUTIONS
2.01      On January 1, 1959, all privately-owned bus services in Sri Lanka
were nationalized, and the Ceylon Transport Board (CTB) was created to operate
road passenger transport in the country as a monopoly. The Transport Law
(No. 19) of June 1978 dissolved the CTB and created nine bus operators, the
Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), and one central service organization, the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB). Among the responsibilities of
SLCTB are the provision of goods and services to the RTBs, and coordination
among them. The Transport Law is comprehensive and well drafted. The legal
framework of SLCTB and the RTBs is described in this chapter, their organiza-
tion and management in Chapter III, and their financial condition in Chapter V.
The Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
2.02      SLCTB is a body corporate; its main purpose is to provide the RTBs
with central services and advice. For certain functions the act gives it a
monopoly; this includes overseas procurement of goods.  In addition, it has a
duty to coordinate the activities of the RTBs and to exercise a general
control over their policies and operations. The Board of Directors has 14
members, the Minister of Transport appoints a full-time Chairman and three
other members; one member is appointed by the Minister of Finance and Planning.
The nine chairmen of the RTBs serve as members ex-officio. The Transport Act
gives SLCTB adequate authority to execute the project, and specific powers to
ensure compliance with covenants by the RTBs. The Minister of Transport has
reserve powers which permit him to give specific directions to SLCTB or an
RTB.



-7-
The Regional Transport Boards
2.03      Each RTB operates bus services in a defined area of the country
(see IBRD map 14654) as an independent legal entity subject to the coordina-
tion and oversight of SLCTB. Ultimate control lies with the Minister of
Transport who appoints the chairman of each Board and three other members.
The fifth member is appointed by the Minister of Finance and Planning.
2.04      SLCTB is not a parent or holding company of the RTBs as their equity
is held by GOSL. Nor is it a subsidiary of the RTBs in the legal sense, but
by virtue of their numbers, the nine chairmen of the RTBs could collectively
determine the policy of SLCTB. This structure of ownership and control was
specifically designed to achieve the objectives of breaking up the central
control of bus operations while retaining benefits of scale for selected
activities. So far, the main benefit of this arrangement has been an improve-
ment in day-to-day management of the bus fleet. Otherwise, the RTBs have been
slow to develop as individual viable institutions -- constrained by lack of
finance resulting from low fares and by a traditional habit of reliance on the
center for funds and all supplies.
2.05      SLCTB will be the executing agency for the project, with the excep-
tion of Part D Low Cost Traffic Engineering Measures which wil:L be implemented
by the Ministry of Transport.  GOSL will sign a Credit Agreement which will
provide, inter alia, for the disbursement of funds to MOT for component D.
SLCTB will sign a Project Agreement with IDA in respect of components A, B, C,
and E and a subsidiary loan agreement with GOSL (see para 5.12).
III. OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
3.01      This section outlines some of the deficiencies in the operation and
management of SLCTB and the RTBs and details the actions which are proposed to
overcome them. The report is critical of the present position but is not
intended to denigrate the present managers. On the contrary their achieve-
ments are remarkable given the defective management structure, the shortage of
managers and an extraordinary high degree of political interference in daily
operations and staEf appointments. The RTBs inherited one of the largest bus
transport undertakings in the world with a fleet of overage vehicles, and
large gaps between the level of public demand, the services promised, and
the services delivered. There was no overall corporate plan and capital for
replacements of buses and equipment had been provided erratica[lly and at
insufficient levels.
A. Organization and Management: SLCTB
3.02      The functions of SLCTB include:



-8-
Industrial Facilities
(i)   Operation of workshops for the reconditioning of major
units (e.g., engines and gearboxes) and sub-units (e.g.,
wiper motors and generators).
(ii)   Procurement and supply of all imported spares, materials,
machinery and equipment.
(iii)   Procurement of bus chassis and assembly of new buses.
(iv)   Major overhaul of buses.
Central Services
(v)   Provision of common services such as personnel and training.
(vi)   Coordination of the operations of the RTBs.
The organization structure is shown in Chart IBRD No. 20905.
B. The Industrial Facilities and Central Services of SLCTB
Facilities for Reconditioning Units
3.03      SLCTB operates facilities for the reconditioning of units and sub-
units at its Central Workshop located at Werahera near Colombo and at five
satellite locations known as Provincial Workshops (see IBRD Map No. 14654).
The Central Workshop was established in 1960 to serve the whole fleet; the
Provincial Workshops were developed in the 1970s to provide reconditioning
facilities closer to the bus depots -- and partly to get around problems of
quality and output levels which had developed at Werahera. The system divides
the responsibility for bus maintenance between the depots which carry out
routine and preventive maintenance -- and the workshops which perform major
overhauls on an assembly line basis. The concept is sound for Sri Lankan
conditions as it enables specialized and scarce skills to be centralized. The
success of the concept depends on the ability of the workshops to provide the
depots with an "off-the-shelf" service of units which have been reconditioned
to a high quality standard. The present facilities do not provide the quantity
or quality required. The range of products and the scale of the problem is
illustrated by the attached Table B. The facilities are poorly managed and
there is a lack of coordination between departments. Manufacturing procedures,
particularly quality control, are almost non-existent. The work force is
overmanned and, because of faults in the bonus system, highly paid. Part of
the problem is caused by inadequate material supplies stemming from failure in
the procurement system (see para 3.07). However, the basic problems are the
size of the central workshop, the range of products being reconditioned and a
management which has lost heart after years of struggling with the problems.



RECONDITIONED UNITS
Comparison of Targets and Actual Output Levels of SLCTB
January 1 - June 30, 1979
Target Output      Actual Output For   % Achieved   Compared with 1978 Actual Out-
for Six Months     the First 6 Months   on Target        put for the First 6 Months
1979                  1979                           No.          -
Engines                                     1866                 1386              74.27        1523          -   8.99
GJear '"loxes                               1986                 1288              64.85        1465          -  12.08
Rear Axles                                   984                  221              22.46         293          -  24.57
Front Axles                                  762                  196              25.72         309          -  36.57
Radiators                                   1434                  879              61.30         829          -   6.03
Steerings                                    738                  252              34.15         272          -   7.35
Water Pumps                                 2154                 1582              73.44        1616          -   2.10
Cylinder Heads                              2010                 1508              75.02        1494          +   0.94
Pressure Plate and Fluid Fly Wheels         3742                 1463              39.10        1664          -  12.08
Compressors and Exhausters                  2244                 1113              49.60         956          +  16.42
Fuel Injection Pumps                        4680                 1939              41.43        2341          -  17.17
**                   **
Fuel Injectors                             74526                 9636              12.93       11127          -  13.40
Starter Motors                              9306                 2179              34.42        3345          -  34.86
Generators                                  8454                 1880              22.24        N.A.             N.A.
*  The targets for output are based on an estimated life of 24 months for reconditioned units (about 180,000 kms).
The actual lives range from an average of 20 months for engines to 13 months for starters.  With this level of
quality actual targeted output levels should be higher.
** Because of the short life of a reconditioned fuel injector, depots repair their own; consequently the flow into
the reconditioning shops is low.                               
Source: SLCTB July 1979



- 10 -
Assembly of New Buses
3.04       SLCTB imports bus chassis, both complete and "knocked down," and
manufactures and assembles bus bodies. The factory at Ekala, just north of
Colombo, is housed in a purpose built vehicle assembly plant which was taken
over when a foreign car assembler closed down. The facility is well laid
out and equipped and is reasonably well managed. The process is designed on
a flow line basis using labor intensive procedures. Body panels are made from
aluminum sheets which are cut and shaped on the premises. The process is
soundly based and has the appropriate level of technology, fully using the
innate mechanical skills of the Sri Lankan work force. The rated capacity of
the plant is 100 vehicles a month, but the highest output attained is 95 for
one month in 1977; the annual output that year at 925 was also a record. The
main restraints on production have been shortages of body construction mate-
rials caused by problems in the procurement function and erratic programs of
new chassis purchases.
Bus Overhaul Facilities
3.05      The facilities for bus overhauls were designed to carry out a
major overhaul to each bus every four to five years. At present, virtually
no overhauling is done at the central workshop other than accident repairs
or rebuilding overage buses. The overhauls are done either at the depots
or in makeshift facilities at the Provincial Workshops. The problem lies
mainly with the management of the Werahera facility and partly with the RTBs
who skip overhauls of roadworthy buses in order to meet traffic requirements
and only send to Werahera vehicles which are unroadworthy.
Other Plants
3.06      The main facilities are supported by several small specialist plants
including a furniture shop which makes bus seats and office furniture, a foun-
dry for the manufacture of metal fittings for bus bodies, such as window
catches, and replacement spares including brake drums. There are plants which
supply a small part of the requirements for bus springs and retreaded tyres.
The problems of these smaller units are similar to the major plants but gene-
rally of less severity.
Procurement
3.07      SLCTB is responsible for overseas procurement which means all new
vehicle components, workshop equipment and practically all vehicle spares
(tyres and batteries are manufactured locally). There are problems in almost
every area -- recurrent shortages of critical spares, often for years, and
overstocking of other items. The central faults are in the application of
procurement procedures and the fragmentation of management responsibility.
The internal stores procedures are sound but are applied bureaucratically
without regard to the value or urgency of the need. On the average, it takes
10 months to place an order with a supplier. From that time to receiving the
goods, it takes six months for the first delivery and 12 months for the final
delivery.



- 11 -
Central Services
3.08      The RTBs rely on the SLCTB for personnel and training services
though the actual scale of services is a hangover from the former all island
bus authority and worlk is being gradually transferred to the RTBs. SLCTB
will continue to operate facilities where certain RTBs require it and will
manage some central training facilities -- including the Ceylon German Tech-
nical Training School, a drivers training center and a staff training center.
Training is reasonably well organized and when existing plans are implemented
should be adequate for future needs. Personnel services are confined to
record keeping and there are no professional services. SLCTB provides a civil
engineering service for the construction and heavy maintenance of buildings
including bus depots. The service has its own design and construction engi-
neers and uses a small permanent construction force supplemented by both
temporary workers and contractors. The managerial staff is undermanned and
the service is overstretched to meet its island-wide responsibilities. The
accounting service suffers from similar problems to the productive activities;
this is discussed in Chapter V.
C. Proposed Solutions for SLCTB Problems
3.09      The central problem of SLCTB is its deficient management capability,
and a major objective of the project is to improve this. GOSL has decided on
the following measure!s:
(i) the reorganization of the management structure with
the creation of new managerial positions; and
(ii) tlhe employment of expatriate consultants in the areas
of industrial engineering and procurement.
In addition, GOSL is reviewing:
(iii) the pay scales and grade structure of the management
staff of SLCTB and the RTBs.
Reorganization and Strengthening of the
Management of the Industrial Activities
3.10      The Governnent has agreed to create a new post of General Manager
(Industrial) reporting to the Chairman, with three supporting managerial
posts, namely Production Manager, Chief Industrial Engineer and Materials
Manager. The latter two posts would be filled by expatriates financed under
the project for a period of about 2-1/2 years to end 1982. Short-term
expatriate consultants would be engaged to assist the above managers for
assignments in the areas of industrial engineering (including workshop
planning, cquality control and plant layout), procurement (incluciing stock
control and supply training) and accounting.  Sri Lankan counterparts would
be appointed to work with, and take over from, the expatriate employees.
As a condition of credit effectiveness SLCTB would have:



- 12 -
(i) created the above mentioned managerial posts;
(ii) appointed the two full-time expatriate consultants; and
(iii) appointed the short-term expatriate consultants.
3.11      In addition to the above assistance, consultants will be engaged in
the fields of personnel management, financial forecasting, accounting and bus
route reorganization. SLCTB proposes to negotiate a contract with a firm,
or consortium, for the major assignments relating to the industrial activities,
and to appoint that organization as lead consultant for other short-term
assignments of expatriate consultants in order to achieve the best coordina-
tion possible.
Pay and Organization of Management
3.12      The present organization of SLCTB is defective in that 13 heads of
departments report directly to the Chairman, which overloads him and makes
coordination difficult. In August 1979, MOT appointed a committee to review
the organization structure and the pay scales of managers. The committee is
considering a proposal to have three posts of General Manager reporting to
the Chairman -- the appointment of a General Manager (Industrial) is a first
step (para 3.10). The likely organization structure is shown in Chart No.
20935. The committee will present its report to MOT by March 31, 1980 and the
Government's decision and the implementation schedule will be discussed with
IDA.
A Review of the Range and Scale of Activities
3.13      SLCTB inherited a policy under which it attempted to produce inhouse
all the reconditioned parts and spares for the whole bus fleet -- which re-
quires a large and diverse range of manufacturing and commercial activities.
The absence of any sizeable local parts industry has protected SLCTB establish-
ments from competition. Sri Lanka has many competent professional managers;
but whatever the pay levels, the public sector will always have to compete
against the private industry -- and a world demand. The policy should be
to create management units which can be run by the staff available. GOSL's
Industrial Development Board (IDB) is active in promoting new industrial
activities -- work which is to be expanded under the recently approved Small
and Medium Scale Industries Credit (942-CE). IDB will be asked to provide
SLCTB with the expertise to evaluate the development of parts suppliers --
particularly, electrical repair in locations outside Colombo. Wherever it
is economical and sensible to do so, SLCTB will encourage these suppliers
in the start-up phase by awarding suitable contracts. The Government and
SLCTB have agreed to institute reviews of the range and scale of SLCTB indus-
trial and commercial activities beginning not later than January 1981.
D. The Regional Transport Boards
3.14      The nine RTBs are directly responsible for the provision of bus
services in the island. The boundaries are shown on IBRD Map No. 14654.



- 13 -
Each RTB is organized along functional lines, as shown in IBRD Chart No.
20936. Each RTB consists of Regional Headquarters, usually located in a major
city, and a number of depots throughout the region. There are 83 depots in
the country. Overall responsibility for the operation of bus services lies
with the Regional Headquarters, whose management acts in liaison with SLCTB,
other RTBs and the local political authorities.
3.15      The bus depots are the basic management blocks of the 'bus boards
being truly decentralized units in charge of providing passenger services in
specific areas. The officials at a bus depot are responsible for carrying
out preventive maintenance of buses; deciding on priorities in t'he event of
temporary shortages cf vehicles or crews; proposing to the Regional Head-
quarters the creation or modification of routes; recruiting and supervising
staff; and administering disciplinary regulations. Bus operations at the
depot level, particularly maintenance, are affected by the irregularities in
the provision by SLCTB of spares and reconditioned units. As a result, it is
not uncommon to find depots where major repairs are attempted despite the lack
of facilities, and not unusually with spares coming from cannibalized buses.
E. Operations of the RTBs
3.16      The relatively slow growth of bus ridership during the decade ending
1978 (para 1.11) was, at least in part, the result of the inability of the
publicly-owned bus operation to provide a better bus service. T'his, in turn,
was due to various factors including insufficient and erratic capital invest-
ment; the lack of comnpliance with normal preventive maintenance requirements;
and the inadequate performance of management and labor. It is evident that a
significant fraction of potential demand for bus travel has failed to mate-
rialize as a result of insufficient or inadequate carrying capacity. Esti-
mates of future demand suggest that this kind of repressed demand will con-
tinue to put pressure on the bus system, particularly since there are limited
travel alternatives available to the general public.
3.17      The level of reliability of bus services leaves much to be desired;
almost one out of five scheduled journeys does not take place (Table 4). Such
failure to meet the timetable requirements (TTR) may be broadly attributed as
follows: two-thirds of journeys not operated are due to engineering reasons,
i.e., the unavailability of a serviceable bus, while the remaining one-third
is due to absenteeiEsm, i.e., the unavailability of the crew to operate a bus.
There is a vicious circle whereby unreliability leads to the overloading of
available buses, which, in turn, leads to further breakdowns and lower bus
availability and, hence, to further unreliability. It is estimated that, as
a consequence of the project, reliability will increase from its present 81
percent to 97 percent in 1983 (Table 5).
3.18      The manner in which timetable requirements are determined is partly
responsible for the low level of reliability of bus services. Services are
planned at a level which cannot be met with the available fleet, in the belief,
on the part of management, that the gap between target and actual supply of
buses will encourage higher "productivity" of depot staff. In reality,



- 14 -
however, the effect of such practice is to spread available buses very thinly
over all scheduled services, without fully complying with them. As a result
of the demands placed on the available fleet preventive maintenance is de-
ferred and, consequently, failure rates increase and the deterioration of
the fleet is accelerated. In recognition of this problem the MOT has used
its powers to forbid the introduction of any new routes without ministerial
consent. To support this policy SLCTB will restrict the increases in bus
frequency on existing services so that additions will be made only to the
extent that properly maintained buses are available to meet the change.  This
policy would involve the temporary freezing of the TTR at the present level
until December 1980, with subsequent growth reflecting actual bus availability
(see Table 5).  The above constraints refer to overall TTR so as to allow for
changes in specific routes and frequencies in response to changes in demand.
It was also agreed during negotiations to increase the engineering reserve
from 17.5 percent of TTR to 20 percent.
The Bus Fleet
3.19      The RTBs together operate a fleet which totalled 7322 vehicles in
mid-June 1979 made up of some 8 makes of vehicles. For the last five year
purchases have been limited to 3 makes (2 Indian one Japanese) in order to
standardize the stock holding of spares. The purchases of new vehicles has
been uneven and the growth in the fleet size at about 2% per annum has fallen
behind the growth in passengers of around 8% per annum. The replacement
policy followed up to 1977 can be described as "run to death" and would
result in a bus replacement at 18 years. Under present conditions optimum
life of vehicles is near to 8 years. It is thought that with improved main-
tenance this could be 10 to 12. The table shows the present and future
age distribution of the fleet.
Table C: Age Distribution of Fleet
Actual - June 30, 1979              Estimated - December 31, 1983
Age-Years
(%)                           (%)
Over 20 years          44      0.6
16 - 20               527      7.2
14 - 15               679     9.3           468             5.0
10 - 13             1,267    17.3         2,326            25.2
5  -  9             2,725    37.2         2,494            27.0
Under 5             2,080    28.4         3,950            42.8
7,322   100.0         9,238           100.0
Average age                    7.9                           6.4
F. The Size of SLCTB/RTBs Workforce
3.20      SLCTB and the RTBs are the largest employer in Sri Lanka, with a
staff of about 61,000 in mid-1979, of which about 10,500 are in SLCTB. Annual
recruitment levels are erratic, and seem to bear some relation to electoral
periods, a reflection of the interference of the political environment in



- 15 -
SLCTB/RTBs. In general, the workforce is overstaffed with respect to actual
needs, to the point where operations are held up due to the shee!r weight of
numbers of people involved. Absenteeism is high and SLCTB is conducting a
study of this issue. There is clear evidence that labor productivity is low;
as an indication, staffing levels stand at about 10.4 employees per TTR, which
compares with an average 8.7 for a sample of Indian companies. A comparison
among the RTBs shows significant variations in the ratio of stairf to TTR
(Table 6); it should be noted that if the lowest level of staffing were
achieved for all regions, there would be a reduction of about 7,000 employees
in the RTBs as a whole. The SLCTB has recognized this problem and in June
1979 imposed a freeze on the total staff members for itself and each RTB. To
support these efforts, it was agreed during negotiations that SLCTB will adopt
by September 30, 1980, guidelines satisfactory to the Association, designed
to achieve appropriate SLCTB and RTBs staffing levels. Such guidelines will
include the followin.g:
(i)  continuation of the freeze currently placed on SLCTB/RTBs
staffing levels through 1981;
(ii) institution of periodic reviews of staffing levels across
RTBs, with productivity indicators (e.g., employees per bus
operated) to be used for the establishment of productivity
targets;
(iii)  limitation of growth of the workforce after 1981 according
to such productivity targets;
(iv)  implementation of the recommendations included in SLCTB's
final report on absenteeism; and
(v) measures to encourage early retirement.
Future Planning
3.21      The short term measures proposed to overcome the present problems of
SLCTB and the RTBs are collectively described as an Action Plan shown as Table
3. The public transport industry has not had a clear set of objectives on
which to base investment and operational decisions so that questions of the
extension of services and the growth of demand are considered in isolation
from capital expenditure budgets, fare increases and the level of operational
subsidies. The manifold problems which exist today and the uncertainties as
to how quickly they will be resolved suggest the preparation of a Corporate
Plan be delayed for at least two years; though year by year budgets will be
prepared (see para 5.05). As agreed during negotiations, the Corporate Plan
will define the purpose of the public sector and set out the objectives for
the period 1983-85, and the measures to be taken to achieve them including the
arrangements for the financing of future capital projects. To this end, SLCTB
will appoint a Taskc Force with composition, staff, resources and terms of
reference satisfacitory to the Association, who would start work not later than
September 30, 1981 and would produce a final report not later than April 30,
1982. The GOSL and SLCTB would first draw up the objectives aLnd parameters,
then each RTB would prepare its own Corporate Plan which SLCTB, would coordi-
nate. IDA would be given an opportunity to review and comment. on the plan.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
Origins of the Project
4.01      In 1976, GOSL requested IDA to revise and update the Transport
Sector Report of 1966. Arising from discussions on the updated report, a
mission visited Sri Lanka in December 1977 and identified the need for
assistance to the Department of Highways and the then Ceylon Transport Board.
1/ In October 1978, an Appraisal Mission found that further work was needed
on the road passenger transport portion, for which funds from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) were subsequently used. The road maintenance
project was processed separately (para 1.10).
4.02      In December 1978, IDA approved a Project Preparation Facility (P060)
for up to US$165,000 to assist SLCTB prepare the project. Local consultants
were awarded the three major assignments so financed.  The value of the con-
tracts awarded to be refinanced from this Credit is expected to be about
US$76,000. The revised project was appraised in August 1979.
B. Objectives
4.03      The main project objectives are the support of Government policies
to:
(i)  restrain the growth of oil imports;
(ii) provide a more reliable bus service which will offer
the public an acceptable alternative to the use of
private cars; and
(iii) decentralize the control of bus operations to finan-
cially viable Regional Boards.
To meet these objectives the project would seek to:
(a)  improve the fuel efficiency of the bus fleet by the
purchase of new vehicles, and by improving maintenance
standards;
(b)  obtain a higher utilization of existing buses and
a longer life; and
1/   In June 1978, the Ceylon Transport Board was wound up and replaced by
nine Regional Transport Boards and the Sri Lankan Central Transport
Board (para 2.01).



- 17 -
(c)  end subsidies for bus operations and to pave the way
for a change in the present system of financing
capital development by 100 percent grants, so that from
1983 the RTBs will provide part of the new capital needs
from internal cash generation and borrowings.
C. Description
4.04      The project would have the following components 1/:
(i)  the restoration of the capacity of SLCTB to operate an
efficient unit overhaul and parts exchange service, and
a complete bus overhaul service;
(ii)  the purchase of chassis and materials, and assembly of 2,120
new buses for use by the RTBs;
(iii)  the improvement of bus maintenance facilities and praLctices
in the RT]3s, and improvements in bus operations;
(iv)  low cost traffic engineering measures designed to improve
bus flows; and
(v)  technical assistance for the execution of the project: and
institution building.
In view of the deficiencies encountered in SLCTB and the RTBs, particularly in
terms of maintenance and overhaul practices, it is estimated that at least five
years will be required for the restoration of adequate bus operations.  The
project would cover a first phase of 2-1/2 years 1980-82. This period was
chosen so that attention would be focused on the immediate measures needed to
arrest the decline in maintenance and general efficiency and to obtain basic
accounting information needed to prepare longer term plans.
Component A: Restoration of the Unit Exchange
and Overhaul Facilities: SLCTB
4.05      This component is designed to improve the output and quality of
the Central Workshop and the Provincial Workshops (paras 3.03 to 3.05). On
completion of the project each Provincial Workshop will be equipped to recon-
dition units (e.g.,, engines and gearboxes) and sub-units (e.g., wiper motors)
for selected depots of neighboring RTBs; each Provincial Workshop will also
be equipped to carry out complete bus overhauls. The items to be financed
include the construction of new provincial workshop buildings at two locations,
the extension of facilities at Medawachchiya, the re-equipping of newly
constructed premises at Bandarawela, and the replacement of old machinery at
the Central Workshop and all Provincial Workshops.
1/   A detailed description of project components is found in Annex 1.



- 18 -
4.06      The Provincial Workshops have been developed over the last four
years on an ad hoc basis to supplement output from the Central Workshop.
The project component would rationalize this development. A basic workshop
module has been developed which can serve a group of bus depots with a com-
bined fleet of up to 1,000 buses. Where necessary, an increase in capacity
can be made by duplication of some machines to cater for 2,000 buses. The
dispersion of facilities from the Central Workshop at Werahera will achieve
savings in haulage of parts and provide local control of scheduling for bus
overhauls while retaining economies of scale and improving management control.
The Central Workshop would cater for vehicles in the Colombo area and for
small numbers of vehicles of diverse makes which are still in service. It
will also provide some specialized facilities for the whole island.
4.07      Consultants will be provided under the technical assistance compo-
nent to assist with the layout of facilities, production of engineering
manuals and the restoration of quality control. By increasing output and
raising the quality of reconditioned units and building stocks, SLCTB could
be able to supply reconditioned units "off-the-shelf." This will reduce the
need for temporary and emergency repairs at depots, thus releasing staff and
equipment for routine maintenance. This will, in turn, result in higher fleet
availability. Unit and parts reconditioning is justifiable on cost grounds
and on savings in foreign exchange over importing new articles.
4.08      The unit exchange service needs an immediate transfusion of new
units to enable it to catch up on arrears of overhauls. This would be
achieved by the purchase of complete units (such as engines) and major
components (e.g., cylinder blocks), from the manufacturers or original
equipment suppliers. SLCTB is proceeding with bidding to obtain early
delivery of these items. Retroactive financing would be made available
for up to US$1.4 million for components which could be delivered before
the date of credit signature, but after February 1, 1980.
Component B: Purchase of New Buses
4.09      This component provides for the purchase of bus chassis, body build-
ing materials and the assembly of 2,120 new buses. The chassis are to be
imported, as are most body materials, and assembled in the Ekala factory of
SLCTB. The standard chassis specification is of a simple straight frame de-
sign with a forward mounted engine and radiator and manually operated gearbox.
While 2,020 of the chassis will be similar to the types already in service
(with some small enhancements) the remaining one hundred will be specified
with additional features which are to be tried out in service. These test
vehicles will have a higher gross vehicle weight and a larger carrying capacity
and are similar to ones already used in India under Bank-financed projects.
The attached Table D compares the characteristics of the three makes which
have been purchased in Sri Lanka in recent years with those proposed for
purchase under the project.
4.10      A deliberate decision has been made to purchase vehicles similar to
those in use. The decision was made because it is believed that the universal



- 19 -
introduction of vehicles with enhanced specifications and modern features such
as power steering and automatic (or semi-automatic) gearboxes would put an
unnecessary strain on the maintenance and overhaul facilities --- which are
unable to cope with the present fleet. In addition, SLCTB does not possess
the vehicle operating cost data which is needed to evaluate alternative
vehicle specifications on a "life-cycle" costing basis. This information
will be collected during the project period with the assistance of consultants.
It is expected that by mid-1982 there will be sufficient inforaation to deter-
mine the changes in vehicle specifications which may be needed for purchases
in 1983. In particular, evidence will be collected on fuel consumption in
view of increasing oil prices.  The procurement decision is conservative but
prudent inL the light of present conditions.
4.11      The bus bodies will be fabricated and assembled onto chassis to
standard specifications at the SLCTB factory at Ekala. The factory has
satisfactorily produced similar bodies for over 15 years at prices which
are competitive with local or Indian manufacturers. The qualil:y of work
is satisfactory. The project calls for a maximum annual outpul: of 900 buses
per year (average of 75 per month) which is attainable (para 3.04).
Component C: Improvement in Bus Maintenance and Operations
4.12      This component is directed at achieving cost savings and fuel eco-
nomies at the depot level and includes the construction and equipping of 22
new bus depots, purchase of equipment for existing depots, and purchase of
equipment for improving bus operations.
4.13      The new depots will reduce congestion at existing locations and
permit a higher standard of preventive maintenance. Dead mileage will be
reduced by locating. buses nearer to route starting points. The depots are to
be built as modules designed for 100 buses. The construction is simple, and
the equipmnent is of a level of technology suitable for use in Sri Lanka. A
description of the depot facilities and cost estimates are found in Annex 1.
To improve maintenasnce at existing depots replacement machinery has been in-
cluded in the project.  These are mainly small machines such as chassis
lubricators and equipment such as voltmeters and tyre maintenance equipment.
The component also includes the purchase of training aids and general equip-
ment for operations. In particular, 2,500 new ticket machines will be pro-
cured of a type designed to prevent fraud by conductors and to provide audit
details which can be used to study passenger traffic patterns.
4.14      The combined effects of the project are expected to increase the
number of buses operated daily and a significant part of this improvement
would come from the improvements in maintenance:  by 1983 the RTBs are ex-
pected to operate an additional three hundred buses daily due to improved
maintenan,ce.



Comparisoni of Chassis Specifications
( Typ e B)
AS PURCHASED IN 1979                                                           PROPOSED PURCHASES UNDER IDA PROJECT
Make A                      Make B                      Make C                Immediate Purchase           Trial - Colombo                      Trial - Mountain
Standard
ENGI NE
Number of cylinders                6                         6                               e                         6                          6                                  6
Method of injection                Indirect                   Direct                         Direct 125BHP@            Direct                     Direct                              Direct
Power rating                       96,8 Kw @ 2600 RPM        83.4 Kw @ 2800 RPM              125 BHP @ 2400 RPM        89.5 Kw @ 2200 RPM         89.5 Kw @ 2200 RPM                  89.5 Kw @ 2200 RPM
Maximum torque                     41.5 Kg. @ 1400RPM        57 Kgm @ 1900 RPM               41.5 Kgm @1600 RPM        57 Kgm @ 900 RPM           57 Kgm @   900 RPM                  57 Kgm @ 900 RPM
Compression ratio                  22 to 1                   17 to 1                         16 to I                   17 to I                    17 to 1                             17 to 1
TRANSMISSION
Clutch                             Single dry plate          Single dry plate                Single dry plate          Single dry plate           Fluid flvwheel                      Single dry plate
Gearbox                             5 speed synchro           5 speed crash/synchro          5 speed synchro           4/5 speed synchro          5 speed epicyclic                   4/5 speed synchro
Axle ratio                          6.5 to 1                  6.85 to 1                       5.8 to 1                 5.5 to 1                   5,5 to 1                            6.5 to 1
STEERING
Manual or power assisted           Manual                    Manual                          Manual                    Manual                     Manual or power assisted            Manual or power assisted
Type of axle                       Rigid beam                Rigid beam                      Rigid beam                Rigid beam                 Rigid beam                          Rigid beam
Turning circle (swept)             63' 0"                    64' 4"                          64' 3"                    65' o"                     65' 0"                              55" 0"
SUSPENSION
Type of springs                    Semi-elliptic             Semi-elliptic                   Semi-elliptic             Semi-elliptic              Semi-elliptic                       Semi-elliptic
Type of shock absorbers             Double acting            Double acting                   Double acting             Double acting              Double acting                       Double acting
Load Capacities:
Front axle          4300 Kg                   4060 Kg                        4200 Kg                   4582 Kg                     5090 Kg                            4582 Kg
Rear axle           9200 Kg                   8120 Kg                        6580 Kg                   8120 Kg                    10480 Kg                            8120 Kg
BRAKES                             Hydraulic-vacuum          Hydraalic-air                      Air                    Air                        Air                                Air
OVERALL LENCTH                     9 M                       9 M                              to M                     9 M                        11 M                                10 M
*This figure is considered an error in the Manufacturers' Catalogue and is thought
to be 8200 Kgs.
Note:  (i)   Permissible loads are in accordance with manufacturers specifications;
(ii) Actual loadings are based on: (a) unladen vehicle weight as shown in Pak Poy Report, Assignment C;
(b) passengers evenly distributed.



- 21 -
Component D: Low-Cost Traffic Engineering Measures
4.15      This component is designed to improve the flow of buses in urban
areas through the implementation of low-cost traffic engineering measures such
as traffic signals, provision of bus lanes, relocation of bus stops, channel-
ization of congested intersections on main bus corridors, minor improvements
to pavement and curbs, ban on car parking, and regulations concerning truck
loading and unloading.  These types of low-cost traffic engineering measures
are widely recognized to yield quick and large benefits. A set of measures
for Colombo has already been identified by consultants financed under the PPF,
and further ones will be identified in other parts of the islaLnd during project
implementation. The measures will be mainly, but not entirely, in urban areas.
Cmponent E: Technical Assistance
4.16      This component will provide consultancy services and training.
The consultants would assist SLCTB in the following major areas:  production
engineering, procurement, accounting, traffic operations and management
reorganization. A detailed list is given in Annex 1.
D. Cost Estimates
4.17      The total investment in the project is estimated at about US$86.40
million of which US$51.5 million is foreign exchange. Detailed cost estimates
are given in Annex 1. The estimates are based on prices of January 1979
except bus chassis and materials which are at July 1, 1979.  The direct
foreign exchange component would be about 60 percent of the total cost. The
exchange rate is estimated at Rs 15.6 to US$1. Quantity contingencies are
calculated at 7-1/2 percent for machinery, equipment, construction and techn-
ical assistance. Increases in prices have been calculated separately for
local and foreign costs viz:
1979   1980   1981   1982
_________   (   -) ________
Local            18    21       15      12
Foreign          12    10.5      9       8
These estimates are in line with recent economic forecasts.  Detailed designs
are completed for all components. The project would be financed by an IDA
Credit of US$53.0 million and by GOSL. Terms of onlending are described in
paragraph 5.12.
Cost of Consultants
4.18      The technical assistance component includes an estiLmate of 220
man-months of consulting service during the project period. Local consult-
tants are expected to secure 77 man-months of this work at a man-month rate
of US$2,000 equivalent and a man-month cost of US$2,100. Provision has also
been madle for payments of about US$314,000 for the fees of Sri Lankan archi-
tects and surveyors who would be engaged for the construction of new depots;



- 22 -
this sum has been calculated at 8% of the estimated cost. Wherever possible
these contracts will be negotiated on a man-month fee rate basis. Expatriate
consultants will be employed to reorganize and manage the industrial services
of SLCTB (111 man-months) and in specialized fields such as route planning
(32 man-months). A total of 143 man-months of expatriate services is envi-
saged at an average estimated man-month rate of US$7,500 and a man-month cost
of US$9,600 which includes salary, costs, fees, international travel and local
subsistence. The consultancy component also includes US$76,000 for consulting
services already provided from the Project Preparation Facility which will
be refinanced under the project.
E. Execution of the Project
4.19      Parts A, B, C and E of the project (99% of project costs) would be
implemented by SLCTB. Component D (Low-Cost Traffic Engineering Measures)
would be implemented by MOT; execution would be by the appropriate authority,
e.g., Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) for roads inside the city limits and DOH
for work outside such limits. The overall project will be coordinated by MOT.
The agencies concerned are deemed capable of executing the project.
4.20      The bulk of the project's components are similar to previous works
executed by SLCTB and should present no particular problems. The construc-
tion program for new depots and Provincial Workshops is larger than anything
attempted by SLCTB in the past. The project includes funds for the employment
of local architects and surveyors, who would supervise about half this work,
to supplement the civil engineering department of SLCTB. The local construc-
tion industry is dormant, but the small size of each contract and the repeti-
tive nature of the bus depots are thought to be attractive for local companies.
F. Procurement
4.21      Equipment, machinery, materials and bus chassis would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding following IDA guidelines with a
preference of 15 percent, or the cost of the import tariff -- whichever is
less--allowed on local manufactures. About US$1.6 million of spares would be
procured by limited tender restricted to the original manufacturers and author-
ized suppliers. Contracts costing under US$200,000 equivalent and not exceeding
a cumulative total of US$1.0 million would be procured under the GOSL's normal
competitive bidding procedures after bids have been reviewed from at least
three suppliers. IDA will review all contracts valued at US$200,000 equiva-
lent or more before an award is made. The only civil engineering works being
financed by IDA are for the low cost traffic engineering measures which by
their nature are of a small size and at scattered locations on busy highways.
These works are best suited to force account or to local competitive bidding
under the executing agencies' own procedures which are satisfactory. The
total cost of these works is expected to be about US$166,000.



- 23 -
TABLE E
Summary of ProJect Costa
--Sri Lanka Rupees Million---      --------US$ Million--------
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
A.  Restoration of Unit Exchange and
Overhaul Facilities.
1.  Purchase of Units and Spares                 7.67       30.02       37.69       0.49        1.92        2.42
2.  Provincial Workshops                        29.75       20.46       50.21       1.91        1.31        3.22
3.  Central Workshops                            1.12        4.50        5.62       0.07        0.29        0.36
A.  Sub-total                                    38.54       54.98     299.5        2.47        3.52        5-99
B.  New Buses           B.  Sub-total               1484C4                  659.21      11.23       31.03      42.26
C.  Improvement in Depot Maintenance
and Operations.
1.  New Depots                                 103.65       12.67      116.32       6.64        0.81        7.46
2.  Existing Depots                              1.12        7.00        8.12       0.07        0.45        0.52
3.  Equipment for Operations                     8.45       32.50       40.95       0.54        2.08        2.63
C.  Sub-total                                  113.22       52.17      165.39       7.26        3.34       10.60
D.  Low Cost Traffic Engineering Measures
1.  Land                                         3.26        -           3.26       0.21          -         0.21
2.  Construction                                 1.78        1.11        2.89       0.11        0.07        0.19
D.  Sub-totail                                   5.04        1.11        6.15       0.32        0.07        0.39
E.  Technical Assistance
1.  Consultants                                 11.79       18.36       30.15       0.76        1.18        1.93
2.  Training;                                    0.62        4.03        4.65       0.04        0.26        0.30
E.  Sub-total                                   12.41       22.39       34.80       0.80        1.44        2.23
Base Cost Estimate                                  344.38      614.69      959.07     22.08       39.40       61.48
Contingencies
1.  Physical                                    12.69        9.80       22.49       0.81        0.63        1.44
2.  For Price Increases                        187.56      178.65      366.21      12.02       11.45       23.4
TOTAI PROJECT COST                     544 .63      803.13    1347.77          1                   86.40
Note: The project costs irnclude a sum of Rupees 122 million (US$7.8 million equivalent)
for import duties and taxes.



- 24 -
G. Retroactive Financing
4.22      Retractive financing for up to US$1.4 million would be provided
in respect of expenditures on major units and spares (para 4.08) incurred
prior to credit signature and after February 1, 1980. A sum estimated at
US$76,000 advanced under PPF P060 would be refinanced under the credit.
H. Disbursement
4.23      The proposed credit of US$53.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs of US$51.5 million (60% of total costs) and about US$1.5 mil-
lion equivalent of local costs. The IDA credit would finance about 67% of
total costs net of taxes and duties. Disbursements from the Credit account
would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, machinery, tools, bus chassis, body
materials and spare parts;
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured equipment/materials procured through ICB;
(c) 60% of local expenditures for equipment/materials
procured locally without ICB;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consultants and tech-
nical assistance; and
(e) 90% of civil works (for low-cost traffic engineering
measures).
4.24      Disbursements against civil works (for traffic engineering) under
force account would be made against statement of expenditures, the documenta-
tion for which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained
by MOT, would be made available for inspection by IDA staff during the course
of the project supervision missions, and would be subject to external audit.
4.25      The performance of SLCTB and the RTBs will be monitored separately.
For SLCTB the Action Plan (Table 3) will be used in the initial months while
reliable monitoring indicators are developed. During negotiations SLCTB
agreed to prepare output forecasts by October 1980 and, subsequently annually,
for the following year. These output forecasts would include monitoring
indicators. Each RTB would draw up an operating plan and SLCTB would coor-
dinate and consolidate them. The basic targets, and project objective, is the
increase in the number of bus kms operated, the increase in the availability
of buses and the closing of the present gap between kms scheduled and kms
operated. The consolidated target is shown in Table 5, and the monitoring
indicators to be used, in Annex 2.



- 25 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF SLCTB/RTBs
5.01     SLCTB would be the executing agent of the proposed credit and will
sign a Pr-;ect Agreement with IDA. RTBs would receive output from SLCTB,
e.g., new buses, under the terms of a subsidiary loan agreement.
Accounting Systems and Records
5.02      The accounting system of CTB changed little in its 20-year history
and at the date olf decentralization was deficient and in arrears.  Operating
costs were understated as part of the maintenance costs were capitalized and
the method of store accounting was faulty. Fixed assets registers had not
been properly maintained. The resulting accounting records are of limited
value for analysis or forecasting.  The faulty accounting practices are being
changed in accordance with consultants' recommendations and will be fully
implemented in FY80. The creation of the RTBs and the simultaneous loss of
practically all the qualified accounting staff caused an additional disruption.
The RTBs were established without a common system of accounting or financial
reporting. A great deal of work is required to establish costing and financial
reporting systems. The proposed technical assistance component includes the
provision of consulting services to assist with this work during the project
implementtation period.
A. Past Results
5.03      The last set of annual accounts is for 1977; the last audited
accounts for 1975. SLCTB staff and consultants have prepared estimates for
FY78 which are summarized in the attached Table F.  Some limited conclusions
can be drawn from the available information. After the fare increase of 80
percent in 1974, revenues were probably about equal to total costs. From then
to the time of the next fare increase in mid-1978, revenues grew due to the
increase in the fleet size and the passengers carried, but costs increased at
a faster rate due to the continuing use of old buses and poor maintenance.
The liberalization of imports in late 1977 and the devaluation of the Rupee
caused a sharp increase in the costs of operation during 1978i and 1979 which
went undetected. GOSL has provided 100 percent of all capital needs up to and
including FY79 and has also made contributions to operating losses as required.



- 26 -
Table F: CEYLON TRANSPORT BOARD
Estimates of Operating Results
(Rs Million)
Financial Years                % Increase
1975    1976    1977    1978          78 over 75
Kms Operated Million             397      399     403      455              146
Total Revenues                   666      731      773     918              137
Total Working Expenses           532      613      752     n.a.
Depreciation                      42       51       52      56
Establishment Expenses            61       60     n.a.    n.a.
Total Costs                 635     724      804    1,021             160
Operating Income                  31        7      (31)    (103)
Operating Interest                 9        9      11        11
Net Income                   22      (2)    (42)    (114)
Domestic Inflation %                        1.2      1.5     14
Fare Increase                     80%       -       -        15% (July)
Operating Ratio                   95       99     104       111
Revenue per km (Rupees)            1.67    1.83    1.92       2.01
Cost per km                        1.60    1.81    1.99       2.24
Rate of Return               11.0%    2.0%
Note:     The figures for 1978 are for SLCTB and the nine RTBs combined;
previous years are for CTB. It is estimated that costs
have been understated for FY77 by about Rs 60 million and
for FY78 by about Rs 75 million due to incorrect accounting
practices. Using these figures the results are adjusted.
% Increase
1977    1978      78 over 75
Total Costs                           864   1,096           172
Net Income                             (91)   (178)
Operating Ratio                       111      119
Cost per km                             2.14    2.4
B. Future Forecasts: SLCTB
5.04      SLCTB derives its income from charges to the RTBs for the goods it
procures and produces and for operating common services. Estimates of future
income and expenditure have been prepared by consultants based on a study of
the major activities in 1978. The forecasts of future sales include the
effects of the proposed project -- both in terms of physical output of buses,
and improvements in efficiency. The basis of assumptions for all financial



- 27 -
forecasts are given in Annex 3. The assumptions are conservative but reason-
able. Because of the state of the accounts these forecasts are regarded as
approximations and will be revised during the project.
5.05      In September 1978, SLCTB adopted an interim pricing policy whereby
RTBs are charged on a cost-plus basis for all items where the cost is known
e.g., imported spares. Reconditioned units are sold at 50 percent of the
price of a new article. Ideally, SLCTB would sell at fixed quoted prices, but
this is imtpracticable now given the state of organization and recordkeeping.
The preserLt system is adequate for FY80/81. Consultants have designed a factory
costing system, which would be installed progressively in all the facilities
beginning in January 1980. This should provide a base for determining transfer
prices and budgets from FY82. It was agreed that, not later than September 30,
1980, and then annually, SLCTB would prepare operational and financial fore-
casts for the next fiscal year. SLCTB Directors would approve this budget and
the level of selling prices needed to finance the activities. The Transport
Act of 1978 requires that SLCTB revenues should cover its working and estab-
lishment expenses including depreciation and interest. Under this plan, the
income and expenditure of SLCTB would "break even".
5.06      SLCTB has a duty to coordinate the policy and activities of the
RTBs including the consolidation of plans and financial forecasts and the
monitoring of results. At present, it is unable to discharge this role
satisfactorily due to the inadequacies of its accounting division. It is
particularly hampered by the shortage of even partly qualified staff and
by an excess of untrained clerical staff and outdated systems. These prob-
lems are similar to those which affect SLCTB's other activities as described
in Chapter III and the solutions prescribed are similar -- the appointment of
a firm of accountants to assist with the management of the division, and to
establish new accotnting systems in the RTBs. These measures are shown in
Annex 1.
C. Future Forecasts: RTBs
5.07      Operating forecasts for the nine RTBs have been prepared by consult-
ants for SLCTB. These forecasts take into account the additional traffic
which is expected and the additional costs of maintenance in the early years
which will result from the improvements in maintenance standards and the
reduction of the arrears of maintenance and overhauls. The project is
expected to produce benefits of an ultimate reduction in maintenance costs
per bus k1m, from increased ridership due to improvements in reliability of
services, and from a reduction in fare fraud due to less crowded buses and
improved ticket machines. Details of the assumptions underlying the fore-
casts are given in Annex 3. They are conservative but acceptable. During
the project period each RTB will prepare operating and financial forecasts
by September 30, 1980 and then annually.  SLCTB will consolidate the fore-
casts which will aLso be reviewed by IDA.



- 28 -
D. Fares
5.08      Whilst the declared policy of GOSL is that each RTBs should be
financially viable, the Government has not permitted fare increases on the
scale needed to meet rising operating costs. The extent of financial defi-
cits was first revealed by a consultant's report in August 1979 which fore-
casted an increase in operating losses from Rs 390 million in 1979 to
Rs 15,551 million in 1983 if fares were not increased. The Government
proposes to progressively reduce the operating losses so that they are
eliminated in 1983. To achieve this, fares will be increased by 40% on
March 8, 1980. The Government has accepted a credit covenant whereby it
will take or cause to be taken all necessary measures to progressively reduce
operating losses so that revenues for each RTB in FY83 will be sufficient
to meet the cost of RTB operations, administration, maintenance, taxes,
interest and depreciation. A cash generation covenant has been chosen
because it focuses the attention of RTB managers on problems which they
understand -- operating costs and passenger receipts. The state of account-
ing records, particularly the asset registers, makes a rate of return covenant
inappropriate at this time. The Government will determine the scale of fare
increases each year on the basis of the annual forecasts of the RTBs. The
financial forecasts in Annex 3 are based on an assumption of the following
fare increases which were agreed in principle during negotiations:
FY79    80    81      82      83
% Fare Increases         0      40    25      25     25
5.09      The fares charged by the individual RTBs are based on the fare
schedules in force in 1958 (prior to nationalization) by the respective
private owners. Subsequent fare increases have been by flat surcharges.
This leaves a number of anomalies, for example, fares which differ by 40% on
parallel roads to the same destination. During negotiations it was agreed
that the RTBs should be free to determine their own route pricing policy
within a framework collectively agreed with SLCTB which would establish rules
relating to inter-regional services and policies for minimum and maximum
fares. Such guidelines should be prepared by December 1980 and implemented
from January 1, 1981.
E. Financing Plan
5.10      The estimated project financing plan is as follows:



- 29 -
Financing Plan 1980-82
Application of Funds                     Rs million   US$ million   Z
IDA Project                                1,348           86.4       94
Other works                                    30           2.0        2
Changes in Worlcing Capital                    54           3.5        4
1,432          91.9i    100
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit                                    827          53.0       58
GOSL                                          535          34.3,      37
SLCTB Internal Cash Generation                 70           4.6        5
TOTAL         1,432          91.7      100
The financing plan is based on the following assumptions:
(i)  IDA would provide a credit to GOSL of US$53.0 million
(Rs 827 million) on standard terms;
(ii)  GOSL would provide US$34.3 million (Rs- 535 million) c,f
local currency during the project period;
(iii)  the IDA funds would pass on to SLCTB by means of a sub-
sidiary loan agreement and would be provided to each
RTB in respect of the goods and services received under
the projeczt;
(iv)  GOSL contribution would be made as an equity contribu-
tion to S]LCTB and each RTB; and
(v)  the funds for the Traffic Engineering component would pass
to MOT as a grant.
5.11      The financing plan does not include any cash contributions from any
RTB. This is based on the presumption that fare increases permitted by GOSL
during the project would not yield revenue levels high enough to generate cash
from bus operations for capital purposes.
Arrangements for On-lending of IDA Credit
5.12      GOSL would provide MOT with the IDA contribution for Component D
(Traffic Engineering) as a grant (about US$0.20 million). The IDA contribu-
tion for Components A, B, C and E would be on-lent to SLCTB by means of a
subsidiary, loan agreement of about US$52.8 million. SLCTB would implement
the project retaining Components A & E (Restoration of the Parl:s Exchange
Service and Technical Assistance) and transferring Components 1B and C to the
RTBs (New Buses and Improvements in Operations and Maintenance). GOSL would
bear the foreign exchange risk. SLCTB would maintain separate accounts for



- 30 -
itself and for each RTB for the value of goods and services received under
the project. At the conclusion of the project SLCTB would be responsible for
repaying about US$8.2 million in respect of Components A & E, and the balance
about US$44.6 million, representing Components B & C, would be repayed by the
RTBs. The repayments would be to GOSL. The subsidiary loan agreement from
GOSL to SLCTB would be on terms approved by IDA and its signature would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Each RTB would sign a com-
mitment with GOSL and SLCTB to accept the financial arrangements and to give
undertakings covering the observance of applicable covenants (including
increases in fares, restrictions on increases in service frequencies, elimi-
nation of anomalies in fares, control of staff levels). The terms of these
commitments would have to be approved by IDA as a condition of effectiveness.
Signature by an RTB of the commitment with GOSL and SLCTB would be required
before SLCTB transfers to that RTB any goods procured under the project. The
loan from GOSL to SLCTB would be for 15 years including 3 years of grace.
Interest is assumed to be 12-1/2%. Relevant domestic inflation rates are:
Actual                      Forecasts
1976   1977   1978         1979   1980   1981   1982
1.2    1.5    14          18      21      15     12
The debts from the RTBs to GOSL would be on the same terms.  SLCTB would act
as an agent of Government in collecting the debt service payments but as the
RTBs collectively meet all SLCTB's administrative costs a service charge is
not required.
In summiary the onlending and repayment arrangements are:
ONLENDING
Project Component        From        To         Amount       Terms
(US$ million)
ABCDE                 IDA        GOSL         53.0      IDA credit
ABCE                  GOSL       SLCTB        52.8      15 years (3 yrs
grace), 12.5%
interest)
D                     GOSL       MOT           0.2      Grant
REPAYMENT
A + E                 SLCTB      GOSL          8.2
B + C                 RTBs       GOSL         44.6
52.8
Auditing
5.13      SLCTB and each RTB is required to prepare annual accounts no later
than 10 months after the financial year end which are subject to scrutiny by
the Auditor General (AG). The AG expects to issue his report on the 1976 and
1977 accounts by April 1980.  Because of the arrears of accounts work, GOSL



- 31 -
and SLCTB have agreed on a timetable for the production of anrual accounts
and their subsequent audit which assumes that improvements will be made in
the timeliness of the report so that in 1984 the annual accounts and the
Auditor General's report will be available six months after the end of the
financial year.
The following are the target dates agreed during negotiations:
Financial Year Ending      Annual Accounts        Auditor's Report
*June 14, 1978             June 30, 1980          December 31, 1980
December 31, 1978         September 30, 1980    March 31, 1981
December 31, 1979         March 31, 1981         September 30, 1981
December 31, 1980         December 31, 1981      May 31, 1.982
December 31, 1981         September 30, 1982    January 31, 1983
December 31, 1982         September 30, 1983    December 31, 1983
December 31, 1983         June 30, 1984          September 30, 1984
and thereafter by
June 30 of the follow-
ing year
* For the former Ceylon Transport Board.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Sources of Benefits
6.01      The major effects and benefits resulting from the various parts of
the project have been identified in the following Chart 20937 and are here
outlined as follows:
A.   The restoration of the Parts Exchange Service, including:
(i) the purchase of units and major spares, which will have
the immediate effect of putting back on the road buses
currently out of service for lack of such items; and
(ii) the proposed improvements to the Central and Provincial
Workshops which will result in higher quality and in-
creased output of reconditioned units, as required to
meet the needs of the bus operation at the current and
forecast traffic levels.
B.   The procurement of bus chassis and body materials and their subse-
quent assembly at SLCTB's body-building workshops, which will result in the
introduction of new vehicles to the bus fleet and the reduction of the average
age of the fleet. In particular:



PROJECT COMPONENTS AND SUB-COMPONENTS EFFECTS AND BENEFITS
PROJECT                 Restoration of Parts Exchange Service                             New Buses                                 Depots                       Technical Assistance                Traffic Engineering Measures
Constructio of
eew depots.
Machinery and
PROJECT                Purchase of                Pro,incial                            Bus Chassis                             equipment for                        Cousultancy                              Various
SUB-                   Units end                  and Central                           Body Materials                          new and old                          Training                                 measures mainly
COMPONENT              Major Spares               Workshops                             Assembly                                depotsr                                                                       in urban areas
Equipment for
operations
z        _                       ~~~~~~~~~~Fleet Renewal :_l                                                                                              
Buses Currently          Imncr   altd               beyond economic                                            odContribution to                                                          Smoother bus
of f the road      a~~nd icesdIncrease in fleet                                                     Imredfwsi
EFFECT          off the road              output leel of             life  ill be            size to meet                   maintenance                       the successful                              flo- in
into sice                reconditioned              repled d by na           increasing travel             procedures                         implementation                              congested
units                     ones (reduced            demand                                                           of the project                              areas
l l l l l l l | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avoided earlier|| r -
Short Term               Ayoided cost of             Reduction in               Ability to               of bus fleet as           Ability to meet            Avoided cost of            Vehicle cost
in-ssae in the              more freqzuent            oeaignd                    sustain an       |            euto  vr              nraig             || travel of ome    ll                dtae
BENEFIT    |    size of avail-                                         mareconditioning  opraintenance  adequate size     eloadingand                                                                        d f     treim
nbcea b in th                                                                                            l o of unitsnith  C             d fosts  of avablable  deferred  trl  pasngerson  tainm
able bus fleethot.,Iif                                                   bus fleet                 maintenance                                         costlier modesla;ng
|   |  |   l  l   l  l   J  ]W(longer eBpa -ted
World Bank -20937



- 33 -
(i)  some of these new buses will replace older ones falling
out of service or due to be scrapped, according to a
disposal schedule, thereby reducing the average vehicle
operating and maintenance costs for the entire fleet;
(ii) tne remaining buses will constitute net additions to the
bus fleet, thus enabling the bus company to meet the
future demand for travel, to reduce the load factor of
available vehicles, to retard the deterioration of the
fleet, and to moderate the possible shift of passengers
away from the bus.
C.   The construction of new depots, the provision of machinery and
equipment for new and old depots, and the procurement of miscE!llaneous
equipment to improve the operations of the RTBs, which will result, among
other things, in improved maintenance procedures, and a better geographical
distribution of supply following demand patterns.
D.   The traffic engineering measures which will relieve congestion
and facilitate service delivery along major bus corridors and routes, and
will result in vehicle cost and time savings.
E.   The technical assistance component, including consultancy assign-
ments and training, tailored to suit the needs of the borrower and secure the
successful implementation of the project.
6.02      The various effects of the project, enumerated above, may be
consolidated in thke following broad categories:
(i)  a larger available fleet, i.e., an increase in the number
of serv:iceable buses and the resulting ability of the bus
company to meet the forecasted demand for travel, both
in the short and medium terms; the former will be possible
through the early purchase of units and major spares; the
latter, through the addition of new buses to the fleet,
the restoration of the parts exchange system and the
improvements of depot maintenance practices;
(ii) higher efficiency in the internal operations of the bus
company, i.e., lower cost per unit of service delivered,
resulting from reduction in the average age of the fleet
and associated savings in vehicle operating and maintenance;
the longer lives of reconditioned units; and the slower wear
and tear of the fleet;
(iii)  as seen by the general riding public, an important effect
will be the overall improvement in the quality of bus
services, as measured by higher levels of reliability
and comfort.



- 34 -
B. Costs and Benefits
6.03      Due to the comprehensive nature of the project, which deals with
most aspects of SLCTB/RTBs, and due to the high degree of interrelation
among project components, it has not been deemed suitable to carry out the
economic evaluation of each of these components separately; instead, the
project is treated as a package. The evolution over time of various indica-
tors defining the fleet position and operations of the bus company is drawn
for two separate situations, namely, the "with-project" (WP) and the "without-
project" (WOP) cases. The difference between the two time paths, and the
associated increased or reduced economic costs or benefits, are attributed to
the project (Table 10). The following is a brief description of the main
types of costs and benefits involved in the economic justification of the
project:
(i) The consumption of diesel fuel and lubricants is propor-
tional to the extent of services operated, as required to
meet the demand for travel every year in the project horizon.
Forecasts of operated bus-kms are based on estimates of
passenger-kms (taking into account the likely effect of real
fare increases), load factors, average vehicle utilization
and average bus capacity; in addition, they are consistent
with fleet size and availability indices, taking into
account the bus procurement schedule and the bus scrapping
policy. The WP case includes a small increase in the
efficiency of fuel consumption resulting from lower average
fleet age. Table 10 shows that the fuel and lubricant bill
would be higher WP than WOP, reflecting the faster growth
of bus services WP, which more than offset the increased
efficiency of fuel consumption. The economic price of
diesel fuel has been taken to be equal to the market price,
as the tax/subsidy element in it is negligible.
(ii) The purchase of domestic and imported spares is proportional
to the extent of bus services. In the WP situation, however,
the spares requirement per operated bus-km will be lower
than in the WOP situation, reflecting the lesser wear and
tear that result from the lower average age of fleet, the
improved maintenance practices and the lower vehicle load
factors. Nevertheless, total WP spares procurement will be
higher than it would be WOP, because WP operated bus-kms are
proprotionally higher than the associated drop in per bus-km
spares requirements.
(iii) The required output from the unit reconditioning workshops
depends on the amount of operated bus-kms and, principally,
on the quality (expected life) of reconditioned units.
WOP actual output of reconditioned units -- which is lower
than required -- is expected to increase from its present
low level at a rate sufficient to cover the needs of an
increasingly old fleet; no improvements in the quality
of reconditioned units take place in the WOP situation.



- 35 -
Bly contrast, WP output would be smaller, of higher quality
cind geared to the needs of a younger fleet. As a result,
significant cost savings are expected to materialize.
(iv)  The number of required bus overhauls would be larger
in the WP situation. The difference between WP and
WOP overhaul requirements reflect the larger number
of net additions to the fleet that would take place
in the WP situation.
(v)  Garage operations and bus crews are a part of the wage
bill that is directly related to the extent of bus
services. While WOP additional wage bill would be
lproportional to additional operated bus-kms, it is
assumed that WP additional wage bill would be less
than proportional to additional operated bus-kms,
taking into account the commitment on the part of
SLCTB/RTBs' management to raise the productivity of
their currently underutilized labor force.
(vi) The economaic benefits to society resulting from the provi-
sion of bus services required to meet a demand for travel
that wouldl not have otherwise materialized, are here
computed by means of a proxy based on the following rea-
soning. Since all demand for travel is a derived demand,
a trip is only made if the benefits resulting from the
entire acitivity involving the trip are higher than the
fare level; therefore, the fare level is an underestimate
(in some cases several times smaller than their actual
value) of the benefits that would be foregone if such a
trip did not take place for lack of bus services.  There-
fore, fare receipts can be used as a proxy for the economic
benefits to society resulting from the provision of passenger
transport.
(vii) It is assumed that a very small fraction of potentiaL
bus riders would shift to car in the event of inadequate
bus services (WOP situation). Very conservative assuimp-
tions have been made concerning the cost of travel by
car and the potential for modal shift away from bus and
into car. Also, the significant tax element of the
price of petrol has not been included in the analysis,
as it does not constitute an economic cost. The avoided
cost of car travel is a benefit which may be attributed
to the project.
C. Conclusions
6.04      On the balsis of the streams of benefits and costs depicted in
Table 7, the overall economic rate of return of the project is conserv-
atively estimated at about 20 percent; this estimate should be considered



- 36 -
only as a floor estimate, principally because of the reasons advanced in
paragraph 6.03(vi). If the economic benefits of trips made possible by
the project are assumed to be a moderate and realistic 50 percent above the
relevant fare level, the economic rate of return is about 30 percent. It
should be noted that, even under the most conservative assumptions, the
project is justified. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out including
the various alternatives shown below:
Conservative          Realistic
Assumptions          Assumptions
Base estimate                  20.4                  30.1
15% cost increase              17.9                  29.0
15% benefit decrease           17.5                 26.3
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA, GOSL and
SLCTB on the following matters:
(i) Measures needed to improve the management of SLCTB and
RTBs including:
(a) the management of the industrial activities of
SLCTB (para 3.10); and
(b) the scope of the proposed consultancy assign-
ments (para 3.11).
(ii)  Measures to improve the forward planning of SLCTB
and RTBs including:
(a) the preparation by SLCTB of operational and financial
forecasts for its activities (para 5.05);
(b) the preparation by the RTBs of forecasts of opera-
tions and finance (para 5.07); and
(c) the appointment by SLCTB of a Task Force which
would prepare a Corporate Plan for SLCTB and the
RTBs for 1983 to 1985 (para 3.21).
(iii) Measures designed to achieve appropriate staffing levels (para 3.20).
(iv) Measures to improve the financial independence of the
Regional Boards:
(a) GOSL to take or cause to be taken all necessary
measures to progressively reduce operating losses,



-37 -
so that revenues for each RTB in FY83 will be suffi-
cient to meet the cost of RTB operations, administra-
tion, maintenance, taxes, interest and depreciation
(para 5.08); and
(b) GOSL to agree that RTBs should be free to determine
their own route pricing policies within a framework
collectively agreed with SLCTB (para 5.09).
(v) GOSL to determine its policy concerning the participation
of the private sector in road passenger transport, with a
timetable for the implementation of the necessary measures
(para 1.15).
(vi)  GOSL and SLCTB to restrict the growth of the TTR to reflect
the availability of properly maintained buses (para 3.18).
(vii)  SLCTB to provide audited annual accounts for SLCTB and
each RTB at dates agreed with IDA (para 5.13).
7.02      During negotiations, understanding was reached between IDA, GOSL
and SLCTB en the following matters:
(i)  the contents of the Action Plan and Implementation Schedule
and the compilation of monitoring indicators for individual
RTBs (para 4.25);
(ii)  the institution of reviews of the range and scale of :SLCTB's
manufacturing and commercial activities to ensure that these
activities are economically viable (para 3.13);
(iii)  the completion of the study on manager's pay and the organi-
zation of SLCTB, and the implementation of agreed measures
(para 3.12); and
(iv)  GOSL to notify IDA of its investment plans for Ceylon Gov-
ernment RaLilways (CGR) including the proposal to electrify
the suburban Colombo Services (para 1.14).
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be the following:
(i) arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, are in force for the man-
agement of the industrial activities of SLCTB (para 3.10);
(ii)  consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA, have
been appointed to provide technical assistance in account-
ing, procurement and industrial engineering (paras 3.10
and 3.11); and



- 38 -
(iii) review, to IDA's satisfaction, of the form and substance of
the arrangements between GOSL, SLCTB and the RTBs for the
implementation of the project (para 5.12).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$53.0 million on standard terms to the Government of Sri Lanka.



TABLE 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Population Distribution and Urbanization (1971)"=
Percentage of
Urban Popula-
1971          Density         tion in Selec-
Population      (persons per      ted Districts-
Province           District        (thousands)    square mile)        (thousands)
Western                                 3,404           2,410
Colombo              2,672                                -
Kalutara               732                               22%
Central.                                1,956             906
Kandy                1,187                                -
Matale                 316
Nuwara Eliya           453                                -
Southern                                1,666             783
Galle                  737                               21%
Matara                 588                               11%
Hambantota             341                                -
Northern                                  878             262    -
Jaffna                 704                               34%
Mannar                  78
Vavuniya                96                                -
Eastern                                   823             264
Batticaloa             358                               20%
Trincomalee            192                                -
Amaparai               273                                -
North-Western                           1,408             471
Kurunegala           1,028                                -
Puttalam               380                                -
North-Central                             453             136
Anuradhapura           289
Polonnaruwa            164                                -
Uva                                       808             210
Badulla                616                                -
Monaragala             192                                -
Sabaragamuwa                            1,314             695
Ratnapura              662                                -
Kegalle                652                                -
TOTAL    12,710             525
iT-Le most recent population census was carried out in 1971
2/ These five districts are those with the largest absolute urban population,
excluding Colombo.
Sources: Sri Lanka Department of Census and Statistics, and
Statistical Abstract of Ceylon 1970-71
October 1979



-40 -                                    TABLE 2
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bus and Rail Passenqer Traffic
(millions)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Passengers         1,390   1,405   1,249   1,336   1,436   1,529   1,744
BUS
Passenger-kms    14,004  14,833  12,727  13,388  14,652  15,367  17,827
Passengers            90       90      70       69      71       66       80
RAIL
Passenger-kms      3,098   3,302   2,779   2,866   3,006   2,793   3,711
Passengers         1,480   1,495   1,319   1,405   1,507   1,595   1,824
TOTAL
Passenger-kms    17,102  18,135  15,506  16,254  17,658  18,160  21,538
Bus Share of
Total Traffic (%)
Passengers            94       94      95       95      95       96      96
Passenger-kms         82       82      82       82      83       85      83
October 1979



-41-                                TABLE 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Action Plan
Subject End Action Required                          Lateat Date            Together With
1. Management of Industrial Activities
(a) Select consulting firm and agree on terms
of reference for provision of managers.    March 1980                    MOT
(b) Sign contract: company to be at work.         June 30, 1980
2. Short-term Consultants
(a) Complete selection of consultants in          March 1, 1980
accounting, procurement and indus-
trial engineering.
(b) Sign contraLct; consultants to be at work.  June 30, 1980
(c) Efifect changes in management structure.    June 30, 1980
3. Improvement of $LCTB Management
(a) Reorganization of structure.
(b) Implementation of changes in grades
and pay of managers. Report of committee
to be submitted to MOT.                      March 30, 1980             SLCTB
4. Operations of RTBs
(a) Design system for monitoring routine                                    RTBs
docking and maintenance of buses in          June 30, 1980
RTBs to control increases in service
frequencies: obtain IDA approval.
(b) Assist RTBs to prepare performance and                                  RTBs
efficiency targets for 1980 based on         April 30, 1980
investment plan and institute monitoring
procedures.
(c) Assist RTBs to prepare performance and
efficiency targets for FY81 and consoli-   Sept. 30, 1980               RTBs
date.



- 42-                                TABLE 3
Page 2
Subject and Action Required                          Latest Date         Together With
5. Reduction in Staff Numbers
(a) Design guidelines to encourage early
retirement, redundancy and appropriate        July 30, 1980         RTBs, MOT
staffing levels.
(b) Adopt guidelines.                             September 30, 1980   RTBs
(e) Begin implementation of measures.             December 31, 1980    RTBs
6. Accounting SLCTB
(a) Instalation of new system of works            June 30, 1980         Consultants
costing at Werahera and the Provis-
ional Workshop.
(b) Instal systems for accounting for             June 30, 1980         Consultants
IDA credit.
(c) Design and instal new financial
systems.                                      December 31, 1980
(d) Complete assets balances at June 14,1978   March 31, 1980
and transfer to RTBs.
(e) Complete invoicing of sales from SLCTB,    February 28, 1980
RTBs for 1978.
Complete invoicing of sales from SLCTB,    March 31, 1980
RTBs for 1979.
7. Accounting RTBs
(a} Assist RTBs to establish accounts as          June 30, 1980
from June,   1978 and complete accounts.
(b) Assist with accounts to December 31, 1978  September 30, 1980
(c) Assist with accounts to December 31, 1979  March 31, 1981
8. Other Consultants
Bus Specifications
(a) Select and appoint consultants for
monitoring of field performance of           June 30, 1980
new buses, consultant to be in service.
(b) Select and appoint consultant to evalu-
ate advanced bus specifications and bus    June 30, 1980
body specifications; to be in service.
9. Traffic Engineering Measures
(a) Select and appoint consultants for
the second phase, to be in service by        December 31, 1980



-                                     ~~~~~~~TABLE 4
N0          -   C O t _    C*  N  -.  4   _           _
8         - -     -   -                        -  .   4e n   
- o   o                        N  o>e   No  r   N   _,
b~ e            N   .0  N   N  US  0  ' -        4  _ 
i: I -   "                          N    N ,        , N  
" _ _ _ ~~~ k w S                       NO ^b
a    0I e_      4 N       e0  -   4   0    o N   N     _ N
-   .eo             ' ,0 C>  ,
N              -^
8                 _4
|   o|*      ,_v-o S r *X o   
_~~ N   is  C   -s N& .0  - OS  >0  P.4.
.4o 5   U^^     
-; * . U            N   VS  N   N   N          N N  US     N           , In
o ~          s lig        N    o o0 0 N 0 N .0 0 .                          3
0.   ~          3 Ug N   N             L  _   J0  0 C N  0 0  .   r0 
N   N   '0  N o               V  0N   
16.       N   0     0  4   N       .o0  .0  .0
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0
C~~                                N N                     -   --       _  P
C 4   ,   ,   ,   4   ,   _   A  ;            ^   v 3    8   o~~~4 4   4        ~-
W  S   w   R   r >   -   4  S   w s   =  > -   
'0- (                                                      >r>  .  -.  '4*



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Forecast of Operational Indicators - Regional Transport Boards: 1980-83
Bus-kms                      Annual
Annual          Average         Annual          Operated                      Seat            Annual                                   Average
Bus-kms         Vehicle         Bus-kms         as % of       Average      Kilometers      Passenger         Load         Annual       Journey
End of                    Buses        Scheduled      Utilization       Operated        Bus-kms         Bus          Operated       Kilometers       Factor      Passengers   Length
Year     Year Fleet        TTRII    Operated       (million)       (kms/day)        (million)      Scheduled      Capacity    (million)         (million)         (%)        (million)      (kms)
1980        8,338         6,250       5,625          561.2             246             505.1          90            53.9         27,224.9         19,591.6        72.0        1,797.4          10.9
1981        8,638         6,900       6,417          622.1             247             578.5         93             53.9         31,181.2         20,883.7        67.0        1,915.9          10.9
1982        8,938         7,300       6,935          660.8             248             627.8          95            54.0         33,901.2         22,096.3        65.2        2,027.2          10.9
1983        9,238         7,700       7,458          699.8             249             677.8          97            54.1         36,669.0         22,947.8        62.6        2,105.3          10.9
1/ Number of buses as required by timetables. (Timetable Requirement - TTR)
Note: Estimates in this table #re subject to changes resulting from actual fare increases.
Source: Appraisal mission
February 1980



SRI LANKA
ROAD &gJ$Ek87E TR4OkT IWUECT
Conarieon of Operationel Indicators Among Reelonal Transport Boards:  1978-79
1               2             3               4              5               6               7               i              9            10            11             12              13
Paseangoro      Juroorny       monthly                       Kilowitre      Kiloosters                                                                                Kilo,eater.    Eatiece4
Par Month      Par Capita      Raven.e      Average Fare      Operated       Operated                                                                               Operated ae 7.  Pop.lation
(March 1979)     Per  Day    (March 1979)  (March 1979)   (Harch 1979)    Per Capita           Staff        Staff Per TrR     TrR        Planned TTR      Fleet      of Scheduled        1978
Region         (p000 Re)    (March 1979)    ('000 Re)           (Re)          ('000)      (Colman 5/13)   (May 1979)      (Col,um 7/9)    (Mid 1978)   (End 1983)   (Mld 1978)    (J.ne 1978)          ('000)
Colobo Sooth    )              )               )              )              )               )                  11,621          8.60           1,352         1,883        1,648           83.3            2.091
75,945      ) 0.635        )  36.516      )  0.48         1 17.322       '  4.56
Colotbo North    )              )                      )                      )                                  11)             8.93           1.281         1,920        1,595           84.0            1.707
Centrol             15,814         0.239          11,630           0.74           5,175          2.46             6,427          7.37            872          1,212        1,111           82.6            2,107
Eastern              3,219         0.121           2.982          0.93            1,354          1.62             1,527          9.14             167           464           192          78.5              837
Northern             5,794         0.181           4,500           0.78           2,225          2.21             2,614          9.61             272           555           288          74.8            1,008
North Central        4,402         0.214            3,515          0.80           1,758          2.72             1,866          8.33             224           573           288          99.2              647
North Western       15,468         0.214           9,996           0.65           4,850          2.11             5,619          8.17             688           866           873          89.8            2,296
Southenr            12,567         0.214           9,210           0.73           4,436          2.38             5,315          9.70             548           705           657          91.0            1,862
Uv.                  6,335         0.162            7,931          0.95           3,278           2.01            4,018          8.35             481           762           614          89.1            1,633
SLCT8                        -               -                      -               -             -              10,533           -               -             -             -             -               -
SLETE and RTi.   141,544         0.316          85,280           0.60          40,398          2.85            60,980         10.36           5,885         8,940         7,266          85.4           14,188
Source: Report by consultants NBC (UK) and
Appraisal Mission
October 1979



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Schedule of Economic Benefits and Costs: 1980-92
(US$ million)
1980      1981      1982     1983     1984    1985    1986    1987         1988       1989      1990      1991       1992
1)  Consumption of fuel and                  WOP         16.69     17.10     17.49   17.86    18.76    19.69   20.68    21.71   22.80          23.94    25.13      26.39      27.71
lubricants.
WP        17.29     19.60      21.05   22.49   24.04   25.69   27.45   29.33   31.33            33.84    36.55       39.47     42.63
Benefits         (0.60)    (2.50)    (3.56)  (4.63)  (5.28)  (6.00)  (6.77)  (7.62)  (8.53)    (9.90)  (11.42)  (13.08)  (14.92)
2)  Purchase of domestic and                 WOP         21.04     21.56     22.05   22.52   23.64   24.83   26.07   27.37   28.74             30.18     31.68     33.27      34.93
imported spare parts.
WP        21.59     22.97      23.37   23.72    25.62   27.67   29.88   32.27   34.85           37.64    40.65       43.90     47.42
Benefits         (0.55)   (1.41)    (1.32)  (1.20)  (1.98)  (2.84)  (3.81)  (4.90)  (6.11)    (7.46)    (8.97)  (10.63)  (12.49)
3)  Requirements of                          WOP         14.28     15.05     17.31   19.91    22.89   26.33   30.28   34.82   40.04           46.05      52.96     60.89      70.03
reconditioned units.
WP        14.71     15.83      17.10   18.46    19.94   21.54   23.26   25.12   27.13           29.30     31.64      34.18     36.91
Benefits         (0.43)    (0.78)    0.21       1.45     2.95     4.79     7.02     9.70   12.91       16.75     21.32      26.71     33.12
4)  Additional bus overhauls.                WOP                                                          1.10     1.10     1.10                          1.10       1.10      1.10
WP                                                         3.58     1.65     1.65                          3.58       1.65      1.65
Benefits                                                         (2.48)  (0.55)  (0.55)                          (2.48)    (0.55)    (0.55)
5)  Garage operations and crews.             WOP         21.48     22.01     22.52   22.99   24.14   25.35   26.62   27.95   29.35             30.81     32.35     33.97      35.67
WP        21.98     23.61      24.71   25.82   27.03    28.33   29.74   31.26   32.90           34.67     36.59      38.66     40.89
Benefits         (0.50)   (1.60)    (2.19)  (2.83)  (2.89)  (2.98)  (3.12)  (3.31)  (3.55)    (3.86)   (4.24)    (4.69)    (5.22)
6)  Ecqnomic benefit of trips                WOP
made possible by this project.
WP
Benefits          2.43      5.14      8.20   10.35   13.83   17.69   22.03   26.84   32.25             38.18    44.79      52.09      60.21
7)  Avoided cost of travel by                WOP
costlier modes.
WP
Benefits          0.85      2.72      3.72    4.81      4.91      5.07     5.30     5.63     6.04       6.56      7.21       7.97      8.87
Project Costs                                           (22.48)  (39.54)  (24.38)
NET BENEFIT COST/STREAM (IRR = 20.4%)                   (21.28)  (37.96)  (19.32)   7.95   11.54   13.25   20.10   25.79   33.01               40.27     46.21     57.82      69.02
Source: Appraisal Mission
February 1980



TABLE 8
SRI LA8RA
ROAD PASUnGR TRAISPORT PROJECT
I.mtu.tn Schedule
TCTAL      TOTAL        1980       1980        1981       1981        1982       19dL
RUPEES      US *       RUPEES      US $       RUPEES      US S       RJPEES       US A
A.RESTuRATInlN OF PARTS EXCHANGE SERVICE
PURCHASE OF UNITS AND MAJOR SPARES          37.69       2.42       22.61       1.45       15.08       3.97
PROVINCIAL dORKSHOPS                        50.21       3.22       13.04       0.64       33.13        1.93      10.04       Jo4
CENTRAL WORKSHUPS                            5.62       0.36        2.81       0.18        2.81       0.18
TOTAL (A)                                   93.52       5.99       35.47       2.27       48.31       3.08       10.04       J.o-
S. NEW BUSES
BUS CtASSIS                               448.33       28.74      128.92       8.26      185.46      11.89      133.95       8. 9
BODY MATERIALS                             181.05      11.61       52.06       3.34       74.90       4.80       54.09       3.41
ASSEMBLY                                    29.83       1.91        8.58       O.55       12.34       0.29        8.91       3.jl
TOTAL 18)                                  659.21      42.26      189.56      12.15      272.70      17.48      196.95      12.6j
C. IMPiOVEMENT IN MAINTENANCE AND OPERATICNS
11) NEW DEPJTS - LAND                        1.58       0.10       0.32        0.02        0.95       0.06        0.32       0.U4
CIVIL FNGINEERING                       89.25       5.72      17.85        1.14      53.55        3.43       17.835      1.1
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION                 14.49       0.93        2.90       0.19        8.69       0.56        2.90       0.1s1
EQOJIPYENT                              11.00       0.71       2.20        0.14       6.60        0.42        2.20       3.A4
TOTAL NEW JEPOFS                      116.32        7.46      23.26        1.49      69.79        4.47      23.26        1.41
III)EXISTING DEPOT'j                         8.12       0.52       4.06        0.26       4.06        O.26
IIIIIEwUIPMENT FOR OPERATIONS               40.95       2.63      20.48        1.31       20.48       1.31
TOTAL (CI                                  165.39      10.60      47.80        3.06      99.33        6.05       23.26       1.W4
D.TRAFFIC ENGINEERING COSTS
LANO                                      3.26       0.21       3.54        0.03        1.63       0.1J        1.08       0.o7
OTHERS                                    2.89       0.19       0.48        0.03        1.45       0.09        0.96       O.lo
TOTAL (I0                                    6.15       0.39        1.32       0.07       3.07        0.20        2.05       3.
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANCY                           30.15        1.93       6.03        0.39      12.06        0.77       12.06       0.11
ERAN41NG                              4.65        0.30       0.93        0.06        1.86       0.12        1.86       D.1Z
TOTAL IF)                                   34.80       2.23        6.96       0.45       13.92       0.89       13.92       J.dV
BASE CJST ESTIMATE                         959.07      61.48      283.81      [8.00      432.03      27.69      246.23      15. Id
CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL                                    22.49       1.44       6.84        0.44       11.95       0.77        3.70       0.2t
PRICE                                      366.21      23.47      63.11        4.05      172.64      11.07      130.46       8.Ju
PROJFCT COST                              1347.77      86.40     350.76       22.48      616.62      39.53      380.38      24.jd
Source: SLCTB and mission
February 1980



- 48-                            TABLE 9
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Credit (US$'000)
FnR THE      CUMULATE
QUARTER      UPTO QTR.
FY 1980
TO JUNE 39,1980                77.          77.
FY 19R1
Li SEP. 30,1980             4977.         5054.
TO DEC. 31,1980             4977.        100031.
TO MAR. 31,1981            10,615.      20646.
TO JUNF 30,1981             5715.       26361.
FY 1982
T3 SEP. 30,1981             5715.        32076.
TO DEC. 31,1981             5715.       37791.
Ti MAR. 31,1982             3802.       41553.
T) JJY4E 33,1982            3802.       45355.
FY 1983
TLI SEP. 30,1982            3802.       49197.
TO !)EC. 31,1982            3802.        53000
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1980



- 49 -
TABLE 10
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Restoration of the Parts Exchange Service
1.   Report on Workshop Practice at Central Workshop, Werahera
N. Chandrasekaran, Ashok Leyland Ltd., Madras, India.
2.   Report on Machinery and Tooling Requirements for Reconditioning
and Overhaul Facilities - R.D. Gillanders (Consultant).
3.   Preliminary Study and Report on Material Procurement Procedures
of SLCTB. National Institute of Business Management (Sr Lanka)
1979.
B.   Purchases of New Buses
1.   Specifications for new buses.  Pak-Poy and Associates, Australia.
2.   Review of engineering operations - S. Lamb, National Bus Co., U.K.
C.   Improvements in Maintenance and Operations
1.   See B2.
2.   SLCTB.  Rev4ew of operations, I.W. Mitchell, National Bus Co., U.K.
3.   Report on Bus Operating and Maintenance Costs.  NIBM (Sri Lanka).
4.   Comparison of Operational Indicators between Indian Bus Companies
and the Ceylon Transport Board.
D.   Low-Cost Traff-ic Engineering Measures
1.   Report by Agroskills Ltd. (Sri Lanka), August 1979.
E.   Finance
1.   Report on Financial Relationships between Central and Regional
Boards, Pak--Poy Associates (Australia) with Ford Rhodes Thornton
(Sri Lanka) - with updates.
2.   Report on costing of major activities of SLCTB for 1978.  Ford
Rhodes Thornton (Sri Lanka).
F.   Consultancy Assignments
1.   Draft Terns of Reference for Consultancy Assignments.
February 1980



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Description and Cost of Project Components
Component A:  Restoration of the Unit Exchange
and Overhaul Facilities (SLCTB)
A.1 Purchase of Units and Major Spares
SLCTB needs to supplement the output of its reconditioning fac-
tories by the purchase of complete units, sub-units and spare parts including
replacement springs. Schedules of items to be procured have been approved by
Bank consultants and are held in the Project Files.
Cost Estimates (Rupees million)
Local      Foreign       Total
(1)  Units (Schedule 1)           5.19        20.48        25.67
(2)  Major Spares (Schedule 2)  1.31            5.05        6.36
(3)  Springs (Schedule 3)         1.17         4.49         5.66
7.67        30.02        37.69
Technical (Quantity) contingencies 7-1/2 percent.
Prices based on estimates at January 1, 1979.
A.2 Provincial Workshops (SLCTB)
(i) construction of new buildings for a Unit Reconditioning
Workshop and Bus Body Overhaul Facility at: (a) Weligama
near Galle (Southern Region); and (b) Matale (Central
Region) near Kandy.
(ii) transfer of an existing Unit Reconditioning and Bus Body
Overhaul Facility to recently constructed premises near
Bandarawela (Uva Region).
(iii)  transfer of existing machinery and equipment from temporary
premises in Galle (Southern Region), Kandy (Central Region),
Bandarawela (Uva Region) to the new premises in (i) and (ii)
above.
(iv) extension of existing facilities to provide a Bus Body Over-
haul Facility at Medawachchiya (North Central Region).



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
P'age 2
(v) purchase and installation of new machinery, tools ancd
testing equipment for each of the above locations.
(vi) purchase and installation of machinery, equipment, tools
and gauges for the central workshop at Werahera to supple-
ment existing machinery or replace obsolete machines.
The machinery to be purchased is general purpose and can be usied for more than
one make of vehicle, but normally a Provincial Workshop will siervice vehicles
of one or two makes as the practice is to operate only one make from groups of
neighboring depots to permit interchange of the fleet. A description of the
functions of a provincial workshop and the lists of equipment is provided in
the report of consultancy assignment F - R. D. Gillanders, August 1979.  Cost
estimates are given in Table 1 of this Annex.
Component B: Purchase of New Buses - Bus Specifications
1.0       Component: B of the project provides for the purchase of 2,120 new
buses, with the following objectives:
(i) to replace old and obsolete vehicles;
(ii)  to improve reliability;
(iii) to allow for an increase in fleet size;
(iv)  to introduce new vehicles for trial purposes.
2.0       The vehicles would be purchased to this Plan
1980 - 470 to existing specification.
- 100 to new specification for trial, of which
60 in Colombo or low flat areas
40 in the mountain regions.
1981 - 900 to existing specification
1982 - 650 to existing specification.
Cost estimates are given in Table 2 of this Annex.
The existing vehicles give every indication that they are too light
for the loading conditions in Sri Lanka. SLCTB bases its purchase specifica-
tion on an estimated average weight per person of 110 lbs. Thiis compares with
118 lbs a person in Madras, India, whereas in the United Kingdom the average
is consicdered to be 140 lbs. A summary of the effects of a higher average
weight is given inL Table 3 of this Annex. In calculating the load carried
it appears that tbLe 110 lb figure which is used in Sri Lanka may be an under-
estimation. SLCTB will review this in 1980.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
3.0       The new specification for test vehicles in Colombo requires a
longer vehicle with a heavier load carrying capacity, 15 tons GVW compared
to the 12 tons GVW of existing buses. Other features of the specification
would be:
(i) semi-automatic transmission
(ii) a mix of manual steering and power assisted steering
(iii) airbrakes
(iv) a length of 11 meters overall
The new specification for test vehicles in the mountain regions would be the
same as Colombo except for:
(i)   manual synchromesh transmission
(ii) lower rear axle ratio
(iii) smaller swept turning circle
(iv) maximum length 10 meters
(v) gross vehicle weight 12 tons.
4.0       The larger vehicles in Colombo, with the heavier carrying capacity,
should induce longevity and minimize maintenance and be better able to deal
with the passenger loads, but may still suffer overloading at peak times.
The improvement of specification has taken into account the appropriate
level of technology which would be suitable in Sri Lanka and is in line with
similar types of vehicles operating in India and the Far East countries.
The improvement suggested for the vehicles in Colombo primarily
take account of the increase in load carrying capacity and the ease of driving
needed in traffic of the city areas. An option of power steering is also to
be considered in relation to the loads to be carried. The semi-automatic
transmission has been previously used in Sri Lanka. The length, turning
circle, axle ratio, synchromesh transmission and shorter lengths for the
vehicles in the mountain regions should fit them for service on the many
long gradients and hairpin bends.
5.0       When testing the vehicles in service, the performance would be
monitored in comparison to existing vehicles over the same or similar routes.
An independent consulting engineer will work with the Transport Boards to
supervise the monitoring and to see that appropriate maintenance procedures
are correctly undertaken.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Component C: Improvesment in Bus Maintenance and Operations
1.0       S'LCTB has designed a standard bus depot in a modular f'orm of 100
buses, of which there are two sizes. One to house 25/50 vehicles and the
other to cater for tlhe needs of up to 100 vehicles.  In this context, the term
depot refers to an establishment whose prime function is to garaLge vehicles
and their cleaning aind refuelling during the course of the day. The extent
of repairs carried ouat at the depot are such as would be necessaLry to ensure
the continued reliable operation of the buses and would include body repairs,
routine maintenance and road breakdowns but not a complete overh,aul to major
units such as engii.es, gearboxes and axles. These items would undergo recon-
ditioning at provincial or central workshops and will be supplied to depots
on a unit exchange basis.
2.0       The layout of the premises is divided into three sections:
(a) Parking Area
In this area, the vehicle refuelling, topping up of oiil
and water, and cleaning is undertaken, and there is ani
area set aside to deal with running repairs as necessary.
(b) T'raffic Operations, etc.
T'his area contains the security officer at the main gate
and controls the traffic to and from the depot, together
with drivers reporting rooms, canteens and offices for the
administraLtion of the traffic function and accounts.
(c) Workshops
These contain the repair bays where body work can be under-
itaken. Tyre store and tyre repair shops, spare parts stores
and the maintenance workshop consisting of vehicle inspec-
tion pits and supporting workshops such as battery maintenance
section, fuel injection, equipment repair shops and a small
machine shop.  The number of pits and the extent of t'he
facilities are matched to the number of vehicles to be
operated.  For example, a depot for 50 buses will have four
pits and six repair bays. A depot for 100 buses will have
eight pits and ten repair bays.
The extent of equipment provided in such depots is consistent with the work
carried out and conltain such items such as tyre changing equipment, wheel
alignment gauges, lifting tackle, hydraulic jacks, rivetting machines, weld-
ing plant and portable electric tools. The level of technology is the same
as in existing depots and is appropriate for local conditions.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
3.0       The buildings are of a simple design and the equipment and facili-
ties are of an appropriate level of technology. 12 of the new depots are in
new locations 10 are extensions or replacement of existing depots. On the
completion of the project the RTBs will have a total of 95 depots. Sites
have been identified for all depots and land already acquired for 15. A list
of the proposed sites, and cost estimates is given in Tables 4 and 5 of this
Annex. The Civil Engineering Department of SLCTB would construct about 12
of the new depots using its own direct labor force and subcontractors. The
remainder would be built by contractors either under the supervision of
SLCTB or local architects.
4.0       This component also includes the purchase of training aids and
general equipment for operations. In particular, 2,500 new ticket machines
will be procured, of a type designed to prevent fraud by conductors and to
provide audit details which can be used to study passenger traffic patterns.
Two thousand of the new machines would be used to replace some of the existing
5,750 ticket machines which are more than 15 years old and are unreliable.
The balance would be introduced on routes where handwritten ticket books are
in use. The new machines would be field tested in various types of opera-
tional conditions in different regions. If the new machines are proven,
there would be a further need for up to 7,000 machines to equip all the
depots; these should be introduced at a rate of about 2,500 a year from
1983 in order to avoid bunching capital expenditure. The new machines are
expected to reduce fraud -- both by passengers and conductors.
Component D: Low-Cost Traffic Engineering Measures
1.0       This component provides for the implementation, in Colombo and
elsewhere in the island, of traffic engineering measures having a direct
impact on bus flows. Low-cost traffic engineering measures, such as those
to be implemented under the project, are widely accepted as having a high
benefit-cost ratio. They are located in bus corridors and comprise bus
priority measures, bus stops and stands, traffic signals, channelization of
intersections, physical restrictions on competing transport modes, and road
widening.
This component is divided in two phases:
(i)  measures already identified in the Colombo area whose detailed
engineering is currently being prepared; and
(ii)  measures to be identified and fully prepared during project
implementation, located in areas to be determined.
2.0       Brief descriptions and cost estimates of the various measures
in Ci) is found in Table 6 of this Annex. Overall cost estimates for
(i) and (ii) are in Table 7 of this Annex.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Component E: Technical Assistance (Summary of Consultants' Assignments)
A.   ENGINEERING
Bus Specifications
(i)  evaluation of bus chassis procurement;
(ii)  oversight of field testing of new buses, 1980-82;
(iii)  evaluation of bus specifications of a more advanced
type, review of bus body specifications;
(iv)  design and installation of systems to record and
monitor operating and maintenance costs to enable
buses to be evaluated on a whole life cost basis; and
(v)  revision of maintenance manuals.
B.   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
(i)  apointment of Chief Industrial Engineer;
(ii)  installation of production processes, quality
control measures, shop layouts and material
handling procedures; and
(iii) installation of new and replacement machinery
at Werahera and the Provincial Workshops.
C.   PROCUREMENT PRLOCESS AND INVENTORY MANAGEMENT
(i)  appointment of Materials Manager;
(ii)  reorganization of clerical procedures to classify
stores indents in priority categories;
(iii) reorganization of procedures for seeking and eval-
uating bids, registration of suppliers;
(iv)  negotiations for forward ordering and long-term
contracts for manufacturers of original equipment;
(v)  investigations of local manufacturing capacity and
encouragement of local suppliers;
(vi)  review the inventory control system and implement
a modern system (which would be suitable for a
computer application at a later date) to ensure
timely availability of materials and parts at
lowest inventory levels;



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
(vii) examination of the advisability of using a computer
package program for monitoring orders placed;
(viii) purchase and installation of the system; and
(ix) training of SLCTB staff.
D.   MANAGEMENT REORGANIZATION
(i)  assistance with a review of the management structure;
(ii)  review of staffing levels and personnel management
practices;
(iii)  preparation of training programs; and
(vi)  preparation of a Corporate Plan, 1983-86.
E.   ACCOUNTING
(i)  Production Costing
Installation of a new system at Werahera, Ekala and
one Provincial workshop; supervision of system for
12 months; extension to other facilities.
(ii)  RTB Accounts
(a) assistance with installation of accounting
procedures and financial reporting system.
(iii) SLCTB Accounts
(a) design of new accounting systems;
(b) establishment of financial procedures in new
Project Unit, e.g., project cost estimates,
project costs, disbursements.
F. RTBs Operations
(i)  to assist the staff of the RTBs and SLCTB with
pilot exercises in route planning and route
costing. Training of other staff;
(ii)  follow-up after six months and two years; and
(iii)  arrangements for overseas training as required.
G. TRAFFIC ENGINEERING MEASURES
(i) Identification and final design of additional measures
to be included in the second phase.
February 1980



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component A: Restoration of Unit Exchange and Overhaul Facilities
Cost Estimates
(SLRs million)
Civil    Engineering    Plectrical Installation        ----Machinery---   _          ei ---e---pees    -----Total Base Cost----
Description                          Local       Foreign          Local       Foreign        Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign   Total
A.1   Units & Spares                                                                                               7.67      30.02     7.67      30.02    37.69
A.2   Provincial Workshops
1. Weligama
Southern Province        9.80                         1.10        0.13          0.69       5.79                           11.59       5.92    17.51
2. Matale
Central Province         9.90                          1.10       0.13          0.74       6.27                           11.74       6.40    18.14
3.  near Bandarawela                                                                                                                                            V
UVA Province             3.63                          1.0        0.14          0.70       5.62                            5.33       5.76    11.09
4.  Madawackiya                                              0.82        0.01          0.27       2.37                           1.09       2.38      3.47
(North Central Province)
23.33                         4.02        0.41          2.40     20.05                           29.75      20.46    50.21
A.3   Central Workshop                                                                       1.12       4.50                            1.12       4.50     5.62
Total Component                23.33,                        4.02        0,41          3.52     24.55        7.67    30.02      38.54      54.98    93.52
Physical (Quantity) Contingency 7h%
Prices Based on January 1. 1979 estimates.
Source:  SLCTB and Appraisal Mission                                                                                                                         a-'
February 1980



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component B: Purchase of New Buses
Cost Estimates (Million Rupees)
Local       Foreign        Total
Bus Chassis          92.09         356.24        448.33
Body Materials       53.25         127.80        181.05
Assembly             29.83           -            29.83
Base Cost         175.17         484.04        659.21
These estimates are based on the following
Purchase Schedule
Chassis                1980      1981     1982
On-hand January 1      430 11   100       100
Delivered in Year      570       900      650
Fitted With Bodies    900        900      650
On-hand December 31   100        100        2/
1/ SLCTB took delivery of 1100 chassis in 1979 from orders placed that
year and in 1978,of which 430 were on hand at January 1, 1980. The
cost of these chassis was financed outside the project. In addition
SLCTB purchased 350 buses complete with chassis which are due to be
delivered in 1980/81.
2/ In practice it is estimated that further orders will be placed for
delivery in 1982/83. On present forecasts, an additional 250
chassis would be purchased; given a bodybuilding output of 900,
100 chassis would be left at the end of the year.
Source: SLCTB and Mission
February 1980



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component B: Purchase of New Buses
Bus Loadings
_ _  _ _  _ _   _  _    _       _    _     _    _     _    _     _  s.           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual Loadings
_                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60 Passengers            IOO Passenge rsj                         140 Passengers       
BF40          1210E      Mercedes   ALPSV Viking2/2  110 lb   120 lb   130 lb   140 lb   110 lb   120 lb   130 lb   140 lb   110 lb   120 lb   130 lb   140 lb
-ront Axle      4300 kg    4060 kg    4700 kg             4200 kg       2633       2701      2769      2837      3133      3247      3360      3473       3608      3764      3921      4078
Maximusm      gear Axle       *9200 kg    8120 kg    8500 kg            6580 kg        6017      6221      6426      6630       7517      785 7     8199      8539      9042       9521    10001    10480
LoadT                                                                                                                                            I
Vehicle        12500 kg   12180 kg  +13000 kg            10780 kg        8650      8922      9195      9467    10650    11104    11559    12012    12650    13285    13922    14558
Permissible loads are in accordance with manufacturers published specifications.
Actual loadings are calculated on the following assumptions;
Uniaden vehicle weight: as listed in Pak-Poy Report (Assignment 'C')
Passenger Weight:           110 lbs per passenger
That passengers weight is evenly distributed
*This figure was extracted from the Isuzu specification. It is considered that
it is possible a misprint and should read 8200 kg in order to align with the
12500 kg GVW.
+Probably rounded down by Mercedes from 13200 kg.
In order that the maximum rear axle load of the rear axle on the Ashock Leyland
Viking of 6580 kg is not exceeded, the maximum number of passengers which may
by carried, whose weight is evenly distributed, is as follows:
at 110 lb/passenger          84
120 lb/passenger         77
130 lb/passenger         71
140 lb/passenger         66
N8B.  Average Weight Male Adults:
1972 Indian National                              49.2 kg    108.2  lb
1966 Punjab (17-21 years)                         55.6 kg    122.0  lb
1968 Egyptian                                     65.7 kg    144.5  lb
1966 Kindred Jews (20-30 years)                   66.0 kg    144.54 lb
Non Bedoin Arabs                                  68.4 kg    150.48 lb
U.K. 1968 - Port Talbot Steel Workers             75.4 kg    165.88 lb
Ref:  P.B. Eveleth & J.M. Tanner - Worldwide Variations in Human Growth,
Cambridge University Press, 1966.
source: Aporaisal Mission
October 1979



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component C: Improvements in Bus Maintenance and Operations
Cost Estimates
Rupees Million
Local     Foreign     Total
CI. New Depots
Land                                    1.58        -          1.58
Civil Engineering                      89.25        -         89.25
Electrical & Installation              12.07       2.42       14.49
Machinery & Equipment                   0.75      10.25       11.00
Subtotal                         103.65      12.67     116.32
C2. Existing Bepots
Machinery &Equipment                     1. 12      7 .00       8. 12
C3. Equipment for Operations
Tickbt Machines                          6.45      31.00       37.45
Other                                    2.00       1.50        3.50
Subtotal                           8.45      32.50      40.95
Base Cost Component Total                      11322        52.17     165.39
==~~~ = _ = _ = = = = === =s = = =
Physical (Quantity) Contingency 7-1/2%
Prices based on January 1, 1979 Estimates
Source: SLCTB and Mission
November 1979



-  61                                                           AMU 1
8RI LAM
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJ8CT
Prolect Comoonsnt C: IuProveaent in Bus taintenance aud operationa
Estimted Coat of DeMOt Ivrovmnts
('E  millio)
|     Totals          Plant & Equipment    Installation         Buildings        Land Purchase   Base Cost Estimate
Pro_________________ct ______ F _oeizn   Local  Foreijn   Local    Foreign   Local   Foreian   Local         Local         Foreign    Local
NORTHERN REGION
,Killinochchi              50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52                3.75       .072             .49      4.372
Mannar                   50 bus depot       .49    4.372         .38       .03       .11      .52        _       3.75        .072             .49     4.372
NORTR CENTRAL REGION
tGalgamuwa                50 bus depot        .49    4.372        .38       .03       .11       .52       _        3.75       .072             .49     4.372
NORTh WESTERN REGION
Giriulla                 50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03       .11      .52        -       3.75        .072             .49     4.372
Nikaweratiya             50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03       .11      .52        _       3.75        .072            .49      4.372
*Wennappuoa              100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04       .11      .59        -       4.5         .072             .70     5.202
COLOM0 NORTH REGION
Divulapitiya            100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04      .11       .59       -        4.5        .072             .70      5.202
VWelisara                100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04      .11       .59       -        4.5         .072             .70     5.202
Yakalla                 100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04      .11       .59       -        4.5        .072              .70     5.202
COLOMBO SOUTH REGION
Natugaum                 100 bus depot       .70    5.202         .59       .04       .11      .59                4.5         .072             .70     5,202
.70    5.202
Padukka                 100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04      .11       .59       _        4.5        .072              .70     5.202
.49    4.372
Bandaragams              50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52       -        3.75        .072             .49     4.372
srsnyvagla               50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38       .03       .11       .52                3.75        .$72            .4i      4.j72
SOUTHERN REGION
*Ambalangooa             100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04       .11      .59                4.5         .072             .70     5.202
*Ambalantota              50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52       _        3.75        .072             .49     4.372
Wellawaya                50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52       _        3.75        .072            .49      4.372
EASTERN REGION
*Akkaraipattu             50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52                3.75        .072            .49      4.372
Kalmunai                 50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03       .11      .52       _        3.75        .072            .49      4.372
Valaichchenai           100 bus depot       .70    5.202         .59       .04       .11      .59        _       4.5         .072             .70     5.202
CENTRAL REGION
'tdattegamsa             50 bus depot        .49    4.372        .38       .03       .11       .52       -       3.75        .072             .49     4.372
Pallegama                50 bus depot       .49    4.372        .38        .03      .11       .52       -        3.75        .072            .49      4.372
WVA REGION
Monaragala              100 bus depot       .70    5.202        .59        .04      .11       .59       -        4.5         .072             .70     5.202
TOTALS                    12.67  103.65        1           .75    2.42      12.07               89.25      1.58             12.67   103.65
Note: (1) *Land is already acquired
(2)  Land which is not owned by SLCTB is acquired for them by the goverment valuer.  Because
of severaJl years of arrears of work in his office titles and values are late passing to
SLCTB. Therefore an avergage figure has been used.
Source: SLCTB and mission
October 1979



ANNEX 1
- 62 -                                 Table 6
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component D: Low Cost Traffic Engineering Measures
Measures Already Identified for Colombo
Cost Estimates (Rs '000)
Cost           _ _ _ _ _
Construction
and Eq ipment
Measure l/   Type of 2/   Land      Local       Foreign      Total      Benefits
Number -'Measure-    _____________ per Year
2         A,B                       5.9                     5.9        14.5
3         B,E                      74.8                    74.8        31.9
4         A                        12.4                    12.4        37.3
5         D,C,A                    47.2        60.0       107.2        64.8
6         D,C,A                    46.2        25.0        71.2         1.0
7         D,C,A                    47.5       80.0        127.5         6.3
8         D,C,A                    45.6       60.0        105.6        27.5
9         B,C,D                    50.5                    50.5       148.0
10         B                        31.2                    31.2         7.3
11         E            36.0       142.0                   178.0        52.0
12         B,E           5.0        23.2                    28.2        15.3
13         A,C,                      6.1                     6.1         7.3
14         A,E                      88.5                    88.5        10.8
15         E                       113.0                   113.0         4.1
16         A,E                      21.4                    21.4        12.8
18         B,E         360.0       181.0                   541.0         2.5
21         C,A                      78.7        70.0       148.7        15.0
22         C,A,                     67.1        30.0        97.1        18.0
TOTAL             401.03/   1082.3       325.0       1808.3       476.4
1/  Measure numbers as reported by engineering consultants.
2/ These traffic engineering measures fall within the following broad categories:
A = Bus priority measures, such as the provision of bus lanes, bus-only
right turn, one-way bus operation, provision of additional lane.
B = Bus stops and stands, involving the provision of such facilities in
boarding and alighting areas, as well as early marshalling lanes for buses.
C = Traffic signals and channelization of intersections.
D = Restrictions on other modes of transport, such as bans on curb parking
or prohibition on truck loading and unloading.
E = Road widening to facilitate the flow of buses and minor improvements to
curb and pavement.
3/ Appraisal mission's estimate of value of land is Rs 1.0 million.
Source: Transport Consultancy Group (Sri Lanka), consultants
Agroskills Limited (Sri Lanka) and Appraisal Mission.
February 1980



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Component D: Low Cost Traffic Engineering Measures
Cost Estimates (Rs million)
Construction
Land        and Equipment         Total
Phase One:
Measures already               1.0011           1.41               2.41
identified and designed
(Colombo)
Phase Two:
Measures to be
identified and designed        2.26             1.48               3.74
during project implemen-
tation.
3.26            2.89               6.15
1/ Appraisal mission's estimate of value of land.
Source: Transport Consultancy Group (Sri Lanka) and Appraisal Mission
February 1980



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Component E: Technical Assistance
Cost Summary
(Rs million)
Consultants             Local           Foreign           Total
Expatriate Fees             -             17.375           17.375
Local Fees                2.654                             2.654
Expenses                  4.232            1.044            5.276
Architects &              4.900              -              4.900
Surveyors Fees
11.786           18.419           30.205
Training                  0.62             3.994            4.614
12.406           22.403           34.819
Note: Figures include an expenditure of US$76,000 advanced under
the Project Preparation Facility.
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1980



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators 1/
A. OPERATIONS OF RTBs
1.0 Bus Services
1.1  Scheduled bus-kms
1.2 Operated bus-kms
1.3  Lost bus-1kms
1.4 Bus-kms lost for engineering reasons
1.5 Bus-kms lost for operational reasons
1.6  Operated bus-kms as % of scheduled bus-kms
1.7 Operated bus-kms as % of scheduled bus-kms
(as of last reporting period)
2.0 Bus-k-ms Lost Because of Engineering Reasons, by Type of Reason
2.1 Buses undergoing maintenance
2.2 Buses awaiting spares
2.3 Buses awaiting units
2.4 Punctures
2.5  Spring failures
2.6 Other reaisons
3.0 Road Failures
3.1 Bus-kms between failures
3.2 Failures per bus per month
3.3 Failures per 10,000 bus-kms
4.0 Bus-kms Lost Because of Operational Reasons, by Type of Reason
4.1 PersonneL reasons
of which:  4.11 absenteeism
4.12 short staffing
4.13 sickness
4.14 other
1/   The monitoring indicators described here will serve as a guideline for
the format of periodic reports to be prepared for IDA as part of regular
project supervision.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.2 Negligent driving/accidents
4.3 Traffic and weather
4.4 Strikes
4.5 Deviation/substitution of services
4.6 Other
B. POSITION OF RTBs FLEET
1.0  At Last Day of Reporting Period
1.1   Total buses owned
1.2   Buses at Graveyard
1.3   Buses used for training and workers transport
1.4   Total fleet in service
2.0  Average Number During Reporting Period
2.1   Total fleet
2.2   At central workshops
2.3   Depot fleet
2.4   Depot fleet as % of total fleet
2.5   Time table requirement (TTR)
2.6   Average operated daily
2.7   Average operated fleet as % of TTR
2.8   Average operated daily as of % depot fleet
2.9   Failures on road per day
2.10  Buses completing schedule per day
2.11  Buses completing schedule as % of TTR
2.12 Average vehicle utilization (kms per bus per day)
C. STANDARD EFFICIENCY MEASURES
Average Value
Annual passengers per employee
Average number of passengers per bus km
Annual bus km per vehicle
Annual bus km per employee
Number of employees per vehicle
Annual bus km per driver
Vehicle utilization Opd. Sch.
Cost per km (Rupees)
Revenue per km (Rupees)
Annual receipts per employee
Annual receipts per vehicle
Average revenue per passenger journey
(Rupees)
February 1980



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financial Forecasts
I.   SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD
Forecasts of Income and Expenditure
The costs of complete buses, depot buildings and equipment for
operations are calculated from the Investment Schedule (Table 8). Sales
prices include the markups in force in 1979. New Buses 1.5%; Imported Spares
18%; Local Spares 1%; Bus Overhauls 5%; Reconditioned Units 50% of the new
price. Costs are calculated from FY79 and assumed to change as follows:
Imported Spares:  Increase with bus-kms run and foreign inflation
factor; decrease by Efficiency Factor No. 1.
Local Spares:      Increase with bus-kms run and local inflation
factor; decrease by Efficiency Factor No. 1.
Efficiency Factor No. 1
As a result of the project the per bus-kms consumption of spares is expected
to decline as the quality of reconditioned units increases and overage buses
are disposed of. The deflators are assumed to be:
1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
0.0       0.019        0.089         0.14         0.19         0.19
Sales of Reconditioned Units
Costs increase with local inflation, and increases in output esti-
mates as follows:
1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
100         117          134          145          157         157
Bus Overhauls
Estimated cost in 1979 is Rs 85,000 which increases with local
inflation. Number of buses overhauled, as follows:
1979        1980          1981         1982         1983         1984
7515        800           950         1,200        1,300        1,300



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
II. REGIONAL TRANSPORT BOARDS
Revenues
(a) Increases
Revenues are assumed to increase with:
(i) Fare increases;
(ii) Vegetative increase of 5% p.a. due to population growth;
(iii) Increased passengers attributable to benefits from the project
assumed as:
1980    1981    1982    1983
(%      R7)      (%      (xlf)
Improved reliability          3.0     4.5      5.7      7.2
Route changes                  -       -       2.0      4.0
Reduced ticket fraud           -      3.0      5.0      6.0
3.0     7.5    12.7    17.2
(iv)  Other waybill income is assumed at 5.5% of the waybill.
(v)  Non-operating revenue is the value received from the sales
of scrap buses estimated at Rs 50,000 each in 1979, and
increasing with local inflation and the number of buses sold:
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983      1984
600       600        600        600        600       600
(b) Decreases
Revenues are expected to decrease as a result of demand elasticity. The
assumption is that revenues will fall off by 0.15 percent for every 1.0
percent by which a fare increase exceeds the local inflation factor.
Costs
The purchases from SLCTB in the revenue accounts of the RTBs are assumed to
be the same as the sales from SLCTB. All other costs increase with the addi-
tional bus-kmis run and local inflation except:
(i)  Purchases of Fuel and Oil.  The average fuel consumption per
km decreases at 1% per annum to reflect the introduction of
new vehicles and improved maintenance.
(ii) Garage Operations and Bus Crews. These are labor costs and
are assumed to grow at 50% only of the additional kms run to
reflect action on manning levels.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Inflation Factors       1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Local        18     21       15      12    10      10
Foreign      12     10.5      9       8     8       8
III. FORECASTS OF SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(i) There is assumed to be a minor investment outside the project
financed by Government grants.
(ii)  The cash generated internally will depend on the level of
(a) Fare Increases and (b) the Government operating subsidy.
(iii)  All figures have been constructed from incomplete data and
should be used with caution. The changes in working capital
have been assumed as a balancing item.
IV. BALANCE STATEMENTS
It is not: possible to construct a Balance Statement at December 31,
1978 due to the arrears of accounting and the split up of the Ceylon Transport
Board in 1978 when the new organizations were created. SLCTB will be required
to produce opening and closing balances for 1978 as part of tbhe interim action
plan.



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Forecast Income and Expenditure Statement: SLCTB
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983         1984
REVENUE
ISRI LANKA RUPEES MILLIONS)
1.SALE OF COMPLETE BUSES                           206.06      356.14      375.85      413.30      448.67       484.37
Z.DEPBT BUILDING AND EQJIPMErNT                      1.10       57.20      155.96       44.74
3.SALE OF SPARES -IMPORTED                         141.41      160.70       186.30     204.69       222.34      256.22
4.SALE OF SPARES -LOCAL                            179.7T      223.71      273.63      311.77       348.15      412.46
5.SALE OF RECONDITIONED JNITS                      211.97      300.08      395.23      479.00       570.50      627.55
6.8US JVERHAULS                                     67.38       86.39      117.98       166.91      198.90      218.80
7.OTHER CHARGES                                     13.05        6.00        6.00        6.00         6.00        6.00
7A.BUSINESS TURNOVER TAX                            14.22       23.04       25.48       28.57        31.62       34.62
8.TOTAL OPERATING REVENlJE(l THRU 7A)              834.96    1223.27    1536.44    1654.98    1826.19    2040.02
OPERATING COSTS
9.COST OF BUS ASSEMBLY                             203.01      350.87      370.29      407.19       442.04      477.21
10.COST OF DEPOTS                                    1.05       64.00      148.54       42.61
11.WAGES AND INCENTIVES                             18.34       22.83       27.92       31.81        35.53       42.09
12.MATERIALS                                       513.51      654.45      823.67      983.50      1130.35     1282.46
-IMPORTED SPARES                                119.84      136.18      157.88      173.47       188.42      217.14
-LOCAL SPARES                                   177.99      221.50      270.92      308.69       344.70      408.38
-RECONDITIONED UNITS                            151.51      214.49      282.51      342.38      407.79       448.57
-BUS OVERHAULS                                   64.18       82.28      112.36      158.96       189.43      208.38
13.OPEKATIONAL OVERHEADS                            32.72       40.72       49.80       56.75        63.37       75.07
14.SERVICES TO RTB NOT RECOVERED                    10.41       12.60       14.49       16.23        17.85       19.64
15.GENERAL OVERHEADS                                62.28       39.06       44.92       50.31        55.34       60.87
15A.BUSINESS TURNOVER TAX TO GOVERNMENT             14.22       23.04       25.48       28.57        31.62       34.62
16.TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES(9 THRU ISA)              855.55    1207.58      1505.12    1616.97    1776.10    1991.96
17.INCUME BEFORE DEPRECIATIONt8-16)               -20.60        15.69       31.32       38.02        50.10       48.06
18.DEPKECIATION                                     12.50       16.68       23.71       26.84        26.84       26.84                >
19.INCUME BEFORE INTFREST(17-18)                  -33.10        -0.99        7.60       11.17        23.25       21.22
20.OPEkATIONAL INTEREST                              2.08        2.48        2.88        3.28        15.75       19.75              & x
- -                 _   _ - __   - _             ----- - - - - ----------
21.NET INCOME(19-20)                               -35.18       -3.47        4.72        7.89         7.50        1.47
NO. OF CHASSIS PURCHASE)                          1100.00      570.00      900.00      653.00       900.00      900.00
NO. OF BUSES PRODUCED                             670.00    1250.001/   900.00         900.00      900.00       900.00
Source: SLCTB and Mission                                   1/ Includes 350 complete buses
February 1980



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA                                              Table 2
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds: SLCTB
1979       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984
SOURCES OF FUNDS
NET JPERAT ING INCOME AND DEPRECIATION        -20.60       15.69       31.32       38.02      50.10       48.06
NON-JPERATING INCOME
A.TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENEPATIEN                -20.60       15.69       31.32       38.02      50.10       48.06
B.GOVEKNMENT JPERAlrING SUBSIDY
LO4G-TERM LOANS
GOSLIIDA ON LENTI                                          40.09       58.42       30.58
OTHER-I                                                    10.00       10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00
C.LONJ-TERM DEBT TOTAL                                       50.09       68.42       40.58       10.00      10.00
D.GOVFRN4ENT GRANT                               100.00      15.58       35.44       11.13
E. SHORT-TERM LOANS
************$*** ********** ********** 4**9* *4*4*4*4*4 4*4*4*4*4
MI).TOTAL SOURCES                                79.40       81.35      135.18      89.73       60.10       58.06
*4******** ******4**** *4*4*44*4* *4*4**4*4* *4***4*444 4**4*444*4
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
1VESTMENTS
PROPOSED IDA PROJECT                                       55.67       93.86      41.72
CAPITALISFO INTEREST
OTHER INVESTMENT PROJECTS                     100.00       10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00       10.00
F.TOTAL INVESTMENr PROGRAM                       100.00      65.67      103.86      51.72       10.00       10.00
LOAN REPAYMENTS
GOSL LOANI IDA 04 LENT)                                                                        2.07        4.55
OTHER-I
EXIST ING LOANS                                             5.00        5.00       5.00        5.00        5.00
G.TOTAL LOAN REPAYMENT                                        5.00        5.00       5.00        7.07        9.55
INTEREST PAYMENTS
INTEKEST ON GOSL LOANIIOA/                                                                    12.07       15.67
INTEREST ON OTHERS
INTEREST ON EXISTING LOANS                      2.08        2.48        2.88       3.28        3.68        4.08
H.TUTAL INTEREST                                   2.08       2.48        2.88        3.Z8      15.75       19.15
I.TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                              2.08        7.48        7.88       8.28       22.82       29.30
J.CHANuES IN WORKING CAPItAL                     -22.68       8.21       23.44       29.74      27.27       18.76
*4*44*4*4* 4*44*444** *4**444*4* *4:*4444444 4*44*4*44* 4*4*444$*4
IIti. TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         79.40       81.35      135.18      89.73       60.10       58.06
*s*****4** 4*44*44*4* *4*4*4*4** 44*4*4*44* *4*41*4*4** 444*4*4**
CASH AT BEGININNG OF YEAR                      16.90       16.90       20.45      23.52       26.34       28.97
CASH AT END OF YEAR                             16.90      20.45       23.52      26.34       28.97       31.87
CHAN.F IN CASH DURING YEAH                                  3.55        3.07        2.82        2.63       2.90
Source: SLCTB and I,iosin
February 1980



- 72 -                                                    ANNEX 3
Table 3
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account: RTBs
1979        1983        1981        1982         1983        1984
OPERATING INCOME
I.WAYBILL                                         1016.81    1397.08    1991.35    2646.85    3483.38          3831.71
2.OTHEI OPERATIONAL INCDME                          55.6t       76.84      109.52      145.58       191.59      210.14
3.OPERATING REVENUE(1a+2                          1072.41     1473.92    2100.87    2792.43    3674.96    4042.46
MILEAGE COSTS
4.FUEL AND OIL                                     254.72      452.10      589.45      709.14       833.49      987.45
PURCHASES FROM SLCTB
5.PURCHASE OF SPARES-IMPORTED                      141.41      160.70      186.30      204.69      222.34       256.22
6.PURCHASE OF SPARES-LOCAL                         179.77      223.71      273.63      311.77       348.15      41Z.46
7.PURC1ASE OF RECONDITIONED UNITS                  211.97      300.08      395.23      479.00       570.50      627.55
8.8US DVERHAULS                                     67.38       86.39      117.98      166.91       198.90      218.80
9.OTHER CHARGES                                     13.05        6.00        6.00        6.00         6.00        6.00
BUSINESS TLRNOVER TAX PAID                          14.22       23.04       25.48       28.57        31.62       34.62
TOTAL PURCHASES FROM SLCT815+6+7+8+9)           627.80       799.93     1004.63    1196.95      1377.52    1555.65
9-t.GAAAGE OPERATIONS                               68.15       70.10       76.68        81.32       86.19       91.78
TOTAL MILEAGE COSTS(4 THRU 9-1                    950.67    1322.13      1670.76    1987.41    2297.21    2634.89
TIME CuSTS
10.8US CREWS(INCL. BONUSI                         259.77       267.37      294.91      315.62      338.73       365.27
IL.TOTAL ODRECT EXPENSES(4 THRU 10)               1210.44    1589.50    1965.67    2303.03    2635.93    3000.15
IZ.OEPJT OVERHEAD COSTS                            160.94      204.16      268.90      326.84      388.15       459.85
13.REGIONAL OVERHEAD COSTS                          49.46       62.74       82.64      100.45       119.29      141.33
14.CONrRIBUTION TO CENTPAL BOARD
L5.TOTAL INDIRECT EXPENSEStI12+13+14)              210.41      266.90      351.54      427.28      507.44       6DI.18
16.TOTAL WORKING EXPENSESII1+15)                 1420.85      1856.41    2317.21    2730.31       3143.38      3601.33
17.INCuME BEFORE DEPRECIATIONI3-16)              -348.43    -382.49    -216.34          62.12      531.58       441.13
18.0EPRAECIATION                                    81.25      113.34      165.44      203.26      203.26       203.26
19.INCOME BEFORE INTEREST(17-18)                 -429.68    -495.83    -381.78    -141.15          328.32      237.86
20.0PERATIONAL INTEREST                                                                              65.08       84.48
21.NON-OPERATICNAL REVENUES                         30.00       36.30       41.75       46.75        51.43       56.57
22.NET  INCOME/19-20e21)                         -399.68    -459.53    -340.04         -94.39       314.67      209.95
23.GDVtRNMENT OPERATING SUBSIDY                    399.68      459.53      340.04       94.39
24.GOVtRNMENT SUBSIDY H/D DEPRECIATION             318.43      346.19      174.60
OPERATING RATIO                                      1.32        1.26        1.19         0.98        0.86        0.89
OPERATING REVENUE PER KM.tRUPEES)                    2.23        2.92        3.63        4.45         5.42        5.54
WORKING EXPENSES PER KM.tRUPEES)                     2.95        3.68        4.01        4.35         4.64        4.93
S INCREASE IN FARES                                             40.00       25.00       25.00       25.00        10.00
OPERATING DATA
MILLIONS OF KMS. RUN                               481.80      505.1O      578.50      627.80      677.80       730.00
AVERAGE NO. OF BUSES OPERATED                     5380.00    5625.30    6417.00    6935.30         7458.00    8000.00
AVERAGE NO.OF KMS./BUS/DAY                         245.00      246.00      247.00      248.00       249.00      250.00
Source: SLCTB and Mission
February 1980



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
SRI  1                                             Table 4
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Source and Applications of Fands: RTBs
1979       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984
SOURCES OF FUNDS
NET JPERATING INCOME AND DEPRECIATION        -348.43    -382.49    -216.34         62.12     531.58      441.13
NO-OPERATING INCOME                             30.00      36.30       41.75       46.75      51.43       56.57
A.TOTAL INTFRNAL CASH GENERATION               -31B.43    -346.19    -174.60        108.87     583.01      497.70
B.GOVEINMENT OPERATING SUBSIDY                   318.43     346.19      174.60
LO4G-TFRM LOANS
GOSL( IDA ON LENTI                                        192.31      296.99      206.71
OTHEk-I
C.LONG-TERM DENFY TOTAL                                      192.31     296.99      206.71
O.GOVERNMENT GRiANT                                         107.98      234.71      136.42
E.SHORI-TERM L3ANS
**s******* ********.* ******s*** ******t** t*#t*****t* *****s****
(1l.TUIAL SOURCES                                           300.29      531.70      452.00     583.01      497.70
******t**** ******t*** ********** ********** t***s***t **********
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
NYECSTMENTS
PROP3SED IDA PROJECT                                      300.29      531.70      343.12
CAPIFALISED INTEREST
OTHER IN4ESTM4ENT PROJECTS
F.TOTAL INVEST?4ENT PKOGRAM                                 300.29      531.70      343.12
LUAN REPAYMENTS
GOSL LOANtIDA ON LENT)                                                                         11.17      24.52
OTHEK-i
E[ISI ING LOANS
C.TOTAL LOAN RFPAYMENT                                                                           11.17      24.52
INTEREST PAYMENTS
INTEREST ON GOSL LOANII DAI                                                                   65.08       84.48
INTEREST ON OTHERS
INTEREST ON EXISTING LOANS
H.TOTAL INTEREST                                                                                65.08       84.48
I.TOTAL DEST SERVIRE                                                                            76.25      109.01
J.CHANULS IN W3KKING CAPITAL                                                        108.87     506.76      388.69
****$*f**** ******+**** **.******** f*e***t**** ***t*f*l** t***t***s*s
(111. TOTAL AiPPLICATIONS                                   300.29      531.70      452.00     583.01      497.70
***t****s*t *****ns*t* **s*****t* ******s**** *****ns$** *+**nt*****
CASH AT BFGINNING Of YEAR                       21.00      Z1.00       25.41       29.22      32.73       36.00
CASH AT ENI iF YEAR                             21.00      25.41       29.22       32.73      36.00       39.60
CHANOE IN CASH DURING YEAR                                  4.41        3.81        3.51       3.27        3.60
Source: SLCTB and Mission
February 1980






SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1                    Year 2                      Year 3
Credit Effective
A. Restoration of Parts Exchange Service
Procurement
Deliveries Received
Installation
Technical Assistance                                         _
B. Purchase of New Buses
Procurement
Deliveries Received _
Assembly                                                     _
Technical Assistance
C. Improvement in Maintenance &k Operations
Procurement
Delivery                                              _            _    _      _             _
Construction 
Technical Assistance
D. Traffic Engineering
Design
Construction                                               _           =                            m =          -
Technical Assistance                         
October 1979
World Bank - 20956






SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD
AT SEPTEMBER 1979
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMEN OF 9  WOFIKING DIREi 
World BankT-B20905
October 1979
October ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    GNEA MANGER






SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
A Suggested Management Structure for SLCTB
Chairman
Internal                                                            Vice
Audit                                                            Chairman
General                                                           Additional                         General
Secretary                        Manager                                                             General                           Manager
Finance                                                            Manager                         (industrial)
Services
I Personnel                     Procurement
Accounts                                                            Medical                            Stores
P!anninn                                                           TMal                           Reconditioning
Civil Engineering                   Bus OverhauL
Source:   Mission                                                                                        Operations
February 1980
World Bank -20935



I



SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organization Chart of a Regional Transport Board
Chairman                                 Directors (41
General
Manager
|. OperaItions                         Mechanical                                                                                 Personnel
|   Manager                             Engineer                                          Accountant                            Management
F--I                                                ---I                                                                              F
f                                  --_  I I                                                                                           I=
Schedules       i          Depot                              Depot          i         Area                                                                            igating
Officer        I     Superintendent                        Engineer                 Engineer                   Clerks                    Clerks                       icers
r- _
Depot            Drivers
Inspectors       Conductors          Clerks           Fitters      I
BUS DEPOTS
Source: RTBs
October 1979                                                                                                                                                       World Bank -20936






IBRD 14654R
80w00           ao ~~~~~0,301         81+<to                aW-30'          JANUARrY IWO0
4-.J  'AA                             ~~~~~~SRI LANKA
o i       /,                        ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
~~~<-  <    z \                          * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lorialion of Regtionol Tranisport
-9 30   5  )   \> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>    4fi+\ ~~~~~~~~~Board (RT51 Headcrwrrters          9'30'-
,       >                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Werarera(CWW)
k     (F\-     -                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Location of Provinpoia Workshops:
'\    ~~~~~~~~~   >                 *    f'~~~~~A  roposed
\  ~      ~~~~~ * Eixisting
2  +                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bvs Assembly Plont - SLCTB
} - S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reional Bounoriores
. . ./~~~~~~~~~~~ C ~~~Provincial Boundaries
-9r0'o                                                        ^      _                                           9001-
T   X        __         "  \  -.          M4iES .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   20   30   AO
9    }   .  \    z jLCwf~~~~MtEs5
/ , d, o n   T   H            "         s        \ FS-,           '  20 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  l  iok 0   50  AO
, < -, S / 1 >4 B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e n ga7 
7-30, ~ ~      7$        ,      .                                                                             3...     IJ  
K.t -      9   <   -g-<   g
7*300               7t'OO   K            -q                                    \        6              .al-a
t      f-l              <,   >    ->r a <1   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
7   0r:  l rrstrobelf >~~~Nu-    -X \-     2 ) %
pt S.t JlE  Nuwr:EYod  ..
Cst:nsbral;NX AS S., m__,_ ~ F B:nd=r:wej
\   Wtrabero   }   V zR:In zDUrn .   -.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.V'
4  \ _ C    ~C H N A      \           -         C*         7'2
IN r                                                                                       weUs  .-  _  
D  .       s    gv l,T.- -6 00 ,                 'Wade*st.YtlitY
,   r   . /'\\THASEZN                                                  rse~~~~~~~~~~~~~7A dw=.-E"grk thidtte
o   e  S  .  t  .  0  5R,  84  n9-71  1  X * wffl v $s Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
LANYX     ,  _                                                                              - -YItgrt rshjh-b tt{r
ANAurs  \s-0-s n83



