Document of          FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2721-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 27, 1980
IThis document has a reted distibution and may be usd by recipients only In the perfornee of
|their okd  duties. Bs cotents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank _utorlution.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =   Rs 15.6
Rs 1            =   US$0.064
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,102
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)   =   640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGR      -  Ceylon Government Railways
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
RTB      -  Regional Transport Board
SLCTB    -  Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TTR      -  Timetable Requirements
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiary;              Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB).
Amount:                   US$53 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          Except US$0.2 million allocated to the Ministry of
Transport for traffic engineering measures, the Gov-
ernment of Sri Lanka would relend the proceeds of the
credit to SLCTB at 12-1/2% interest per annum for
fifteen years, including 3 years' grace period. At
the end of the project implementation period, US$44.6
million of the total obligation would be transferred
from SLCTB to the Regional Transport Boards on the
same terms.
Project Description:   The Project would:  (i) improve the availability and
reliability of the public road passenger transportation
services throughout the country; (ii) introduce improved
maintenance standards, thereby improving fuel efficiency;
(iii) improve the financial condition of SLCTB and the
Regional Transport Boards (RTBs); and (iv) progressively
reduce and by 1983 eliminate government subsidies for
public bus operations. The Project includes the follow-
ing components: (a) restoration and improvement of
SLCTB unit and parts exchange and overhaul facilities;
(b) purchase of bus chassis, materials and assembly of
buses; (c) improvement of bus maintenance facilities and
practices in RTBs; (d) low cost traffic engineering mea-
sures designed to improve bus flows on roads; and (e)
technical assistance and training for the execution of
the project and institution building. The major organi-
zational risks have been minimized by satisfactory
.arrangements to manage the industrial activities of
SLCTB.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Estimated Cost: 1/                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
Restoration of Unit
Exchange and Overhaul
Facilities                     2.5      3.5      6.0
Bus Chassis, Materials
and Assembly                  11.2    31.1    42.3
Improvement of Depot
Maintenance and Operations    7.3        3.3    10.6
Traffic Engineering
Measures                       0.3      0.1      0.4
Technical Assistance
and Training                   0.8      1.4      2.2
Subtotal                     22.1    39.4    61.5
Physical Contingencies            0.8     0.6      1.4
Price Contingencies             12.0    11.5    23.5
Total Project Cost              34.9    51.5    86.4
Financing Plan:
IDA                              1.5    51.5    53.0
Government                      33.4       -      33.4
Total                           34.9    51.5    86.4
Estimated
Disbursement:          IDA FY             1980   1981    1982    1983
Annual               5.0   21.4    19.0       7.6
Cumulative          5.0   26.4    45.4    53.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             20%
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2716-CE, dated February 22, 1980,
1/   Includes taxes and duties of US$7.8 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
equivalent of US$53.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a road
passenger transport project. Of the proceeds of the credit, US$52.8 mil-
lion would be relent to Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB) at 12-1/2%
interest per annum, with repayment over a period of 15 years, including 3
years grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues
and Prospects" (Report No. 1939-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1978. An economic mission visited Sri Lanka
in December 1979 to prepare an economic report which is scheduled for distri-
bution in May 1980. This section draws on the preliminary findings of that
mission. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy
is experiencing rapid growth and unprecedentedly high levels of savings and
investment. This remarkable turnaround is explained by the Central Bank
of Ceylon as the "spontaneous reaction of a long repressed economy to its
liberalization by the new economic policies initiated in 1977". Until 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance was below both need and potential. Although
GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the average for low
income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77 period to 2.9%
per annum, just below the average for low income countries. Through much of
this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding even these
modest gains: as a consequence, per capita gross national income rose by a
mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in economic growth
in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of factors, including
inadequate investment, poor management of the economy and a policy environ-
ment unconducive to growth and investment, which were compounded by bad weather
and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and fuel.
4.        The three tree crops - tea, rubber and coconuts - which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate in-
centives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, introduced
in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertainties
surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highly protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.



5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.
6.        The poor growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or nearly 20% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.        Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings. These surpluses began to disappear in the late 1960s as
government policies discriminated against these crops and the terms of trade
deteriorated. With growth in other productive sectors in the economy also
decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources available for
social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As
a consequence, expenditures on social services other than the food subsidy
began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures and GDP, threat-
ening the hard-won gains in health and education. In sum, the economy was no



- 3 -
longer generating the resources needed to sustain a large program of welfare
expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope
of policy makers to shift resources to development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977 following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this viscious circle.
The new Government identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation
of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utili-
zation in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment,
and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation with the IMF.
Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource allocations and
initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic relative
prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby arrangement
covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the Fund's Executive
Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement covering the 1979-81
period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms have been introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime was liberal-
ized. With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products,
public sector import monopolies were terminated. Prior licensing
of imports was abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The
tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply.
Price Controls: These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turn-
over Tax rates were substantially lowered and rationalized to be
consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially confined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



-4-
adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the Gov-
ernment introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific food sub-
sidies and rationing, and to target benefits to the poorest. Ini-
tially about seven million persons were issued with food and kero-
sene sL-.ps.  To offset the adverse impact of these changes on real
incomes, public sector wages have twice been adjusted upwards, and
in February 1978 an income supplement was introduced at Rs 50 per
month to benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons
had no gainful employment. Public corporations were asked to pass
on cost increases, except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum,
milk and public transport, where price increases were initially
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government has
subsequently made sizable adjustments in bus fares, and petroleum
prices. These changes, taken together with higher aid receipts,
have contributed to a sizable step up in capital expenditures.
They, however, constitute only a beginning, and the Government
anticipates the need for further price adjustments designed to
reduce the continuing large burden of subsidies and current
transfers (currently at around one-third of government revenues
and 7% of GNP).
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of
personal and company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for
rice was increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices,
incentives for paddy and other flcur substitutes benefited. Fresh
coconut prices have also been increased by 30% and the export duty
on coconut products has been appropriately adjusted. While the uni-
fication of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against
tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set at a level which
effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to the Government. As
tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by a lowering of taxes on
tea. Further adjustments in both the structure and level of tea
taxation will be needed to maintain and improve incentives.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of gross national product at market prices in 1977 to an average
of 13% in 1978 and 1979, as government departments responded to an improved
budgetary resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement invest-
ments and new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources.
The Government has also embarked on four major new programs which are to be
the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) Accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by
far the largest multi-purpose river basin development ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly
constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the first
Investment Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katunayake, and
is planning others, and has approved some 83 proposals involving a total invest-
menr of US$150 million by mid-November 1979; (iii) a massive housing and urban



renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region; and
(iv) the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
13.       These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 30 billion,
or half of the projected Rs 60 billion public investment program over the
1980-84 pe-_d. The Government's tentative macro-economic scenario envisages
public investment taking over one-half (55%) of total investment which is expec-
ted to average an ambitious 26% of GNP in 1980-84 as against 16% in the early
1970s. To enable this increase to materialize, gross national savings are
expected to average 18.5% of GNP, and net external inflows nearly 8%. This
implies a substantial increase in external inflows which averaged 2.3% of GNP
in the 1970-76 period. These inflows are to finance 54% of public investment.
14.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
15.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in public investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth between 1977 and 1980 is estimated at an impressive 6.7% per annum.
This growth has been shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the
most dynamic sectors being construction, mining and quarrying, electricity,
gas and water and manufacturing. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. This impressive performance is due to a number of factors
including the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization,
an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal
of price controls.
16.       Domestic savings reached 15% and 16% of GNP respectively in 1978 and
1979, well above historical levels. Financial savings, as measured by fixed
and savings deposits, have responded dramatically to the change in interest
rates. Public and private investment have also risen sharply, bringing total
investment to 20% of GNP in 1978 and 25% in 1979. This has been reflected in
a four-fold increase in capital goods imports from $84 million in 1977 to an
estimated $350 million in 1979. Much of the investment reflected pent up
demand for replacement of antiquated equipment in industry and transport.
Investment approvals in 1978 and 1979 for manufacturing reached record levels,
involving investments totalling $320 million, of which over one-half were
outside the new free trade zone. Although there is little data available on
employment, the Central Bank estimates a sizable (102,000) increase in the
public sector and organized private sector employment in 1978 as against an
increase of 40,000 in 1977. This would have contributed to the fall in open
unemployment from an estimated one million to 900,000, or 16% of the labor
force.
17.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy induced price increases
and related wage increases, and the removal of price controls contributed



significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these
pressures were moderated in 1978 by a bumper paddy harvest, increased capacity
utilization in the economy, increased availability of imports and the benefi-
cial effects of competition from imports and in domestic distribution. Thus
average annual inflation was held to 9% in 1978. There was a marked deterior-
ation in 1979 - inflation rose to 18% due to an acceleration in money supply
expansion on account of the continued buildup in gross external assets and
the rapid domestic bank credit expansion, and to a sharp increase in construc-
tion sector costs, as the increase in investment levels led to shortages of
construction materials and skilled labor.
18.       Not surprisingly, the current account deficit in the balance of
payments rose sharply to $150 million in 1978 and $370 million in 1979.
After a strong surge in 1978, merchandise imports rose by a further 43% in
1979 to $1,460 million, or twice 1977 levels, reflecting sizable increases
in the cost of petroleum imports, and substantial real increases in non-food
consumer goods, intermediate and investment goods imports. Exports rose by
a more modest 19% to $1,000 million in 1979. However, as in 1978, the
current account deficit was more than offset by non-monetary capital inflows,
resulting in an increase in net foreign exchange reserves by a further $33
million. Gross reserves rose by $121 million to $519 million at end 1979,
due largely to drawings on the Extended Fund Facility. Reserves are currently
equivalent to about four months imports. Preliminary balance of payments
projections for 1980 suggest a further marked deterioration in the current
account deficit to over $600 million, due in part to the sharp rise in the
cost of petroleum imports. Net petroleum imports as a percentage of exports
will rise from 16% in 1979 to 25% in 1980. At currently projected aid levels,
net reserves are likely to fall by nearly $100 million in 1980.
19.       Success in attaining the Government's medium-term development
objectives is conditional on a number of factors. The Government will need to
carefully review the content of its public investment program. As presently
proposed, it will severely strain the domestic availability of skilled manpower
and construction materials. To the extent that this forces a greater reliance
on imports, it will further strain the balance of payments, which is already
under severe pressure on account of the oil price increase and other factors
that will result in a deterioration in the terms of trade. Moreover, domestic
production and exports will need to increase at a rapid rate to ensure the
required level of import substitution and export promotion implicit in the
Government's macro-framework.  This, in turn, will require further efforts to
improve price and export incentives, and the quality of management in the
public sector, and particularly in the tree crop sector. A further essential
precondition is an adequate level of public savings to generate the required
resources for public investment without infringing on the financing needs of
the private sector. However, success will ultimately be contingent on larger
aid flows which are needed to ensure that an ambitious development program,
with a strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented within the framework
of a liberalized import regime. Such assistance will also help finance over
one-half of the public investment program. In this context, local cost
financing will be needed to support this effort, particularly in the early
years, as domestic resource mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.



-7-
20.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy environ-
ment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka Aid
Group totalled US$362 million, an increase of 60% over 1977. Aid commitments
in 1979 totalled a massive $660 million, including $220 million for the acce-
lerated Mahaweli Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently
around 63% and is expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1979,
excluding Fund repurchases, stood at around 8.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977
and 10.0% in 1978, due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstand-
ing short- and medium-term borrowings.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
21.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and 19 credits totalling US$218.2 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 27 projects. About 52% of Bank Group assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development),
20% for power, and the remainder for development finance company operations,
highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials for
industry), water supply, small and medium industries and technical assistance.
The first credit for a Highway Project was approved by the Executive Directors
in 1968. It was subsequently cancelled as the Government wanted to change
the project approach and scope. A credit of US$16.5 million for a Road Main-
tenance Project was approved in June 1979 and declared effective in December,
1979. Eight loans and seven credits have been fully disbursed so far. During
FY79, IDA credits for a total of US$68.0 million were approved for a Rural
Development Project, a Road Maintenance Project, an Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project, and a Small and Medium Industries Project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of
December 31, 1979, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Devel-
opment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in
FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$2.32 million in a synthetic
textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in
FY79. IFC has very recently approved an increase in equity investment of
about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC.
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, in-
comes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to
support industry and basic infrastructure are also included. In addition to
providing financing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II,
the Bank Group is assisting the Government of Sri Lanka in accelerating the
implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program (para 12) principally
through the coordination of external assistance for project preparation and



- 8 -
implementation.  It is expected that significant investment opportunities
for IDA and other Aid Group members will flow from this effort. During FY80,
a technical assistance project for US$3.0 million has been approved by the
Executive Directors for the Mahaweli Development Program. Projects in water
supply and sewerage, rubber rehabilitation, rural development power trans-
mission, and telecommunications also are being prepared for p_ :ible IDA
financing.
24.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD, 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
IBRD) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 19% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to around 4% by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
25.       The transport system of Sri Lanka comprises over 40,000 kms of
roads of all types, over 1,500 route-kms of railways, one main and two
minor ports, and seven airports, of which one handles international traffic.
Other modes of transport, including coastal shipping and pipelines, are of
relatively minor importance.
26.       Freight traffic patterns in Sri Lanka are largely dictated by:  (i)
the geographical distribution of agricultural surplus areas, including the
coconut and rubber-producing southwest coast and the rubber and tea-producing
areas in the central part of the country; (ii) the concentration in Colombo
of industrial establishments from where manufactured products are sent to the
interior; and (iii) the location in Colombo of the country's main port. The
pattern of passenger traffic reflects the spatial distribution of a population
concentrated in the southwest part of the island and the northern peninsula,
with its highest density in the western province, where Colombo is located.
27.       The railway system, which plays a relatively minor role in the trans-
port sector, is operated by Ceylon Government Railways (CGR), as a government
department within the Ministry of Transport. Rail passenger traffic was
stagnant for most of 1970-77; in 1978, traffic levels increased significantly,
mainly as a result of additional passenger-carrying capacity. In 1978, rail
traffic stood at 80 million passengers and 3,711 million passenger-kms.
28.       Road transport is the most important mode of transport in the coun-
try. It carried 85% of total passenger-kms and 79% of total freight tons-kms
in 1977, and this modal split is unlikely to change in the near future. The
motor vehicle fleet grew slowly in the period 1970-76, but in 1977 and 1978
liberalized import regulations and greater availability of foreign exchange
resulted in faster growth. In mid-1978, there were about 100,COO cars,
40,000 trucks, and 7,500 buses. This growth, however, was tempered by
measures adopted by the Government in 1979 affecting mainly the private
transport modes. Such measures included a dramatic increase in fuel prices,



closure of gas stations during weekends, and prohibition on car use during
part of weekends without a special permit.
29.       Intermodal competition between rail and bus is important in the
urban areas, and particularly in Greater Colombo. Indeed, though the nation-
wide rail   ire of public passenger transport is only about 4%, this figure
increases to about 10% within the commuting area to Colombo, and reaches the
level of 20% during the peak hours. Coordination between rail and bus
currently takes place mainly in the form of bus routes connecting railway
stations with their adjacent areas.
Passenger Transport Policy and Planning
30.       The Public Investment Program prepared by the Government forecasts a
GDP growth rate of 5.5% per annum. Freight and passenger traffic is estimated
to grow at annual rates of 8% and 7.7% respectively. While commenting on the
Public Investment Program, the Bank recommended a moderation of proposed in-
vestment in rail subsector and adequate provision for maintenance and rehabi-
litation in both rail and road subsectors.  IDA will continue its dialogue
with the Government on investment plans and policy decisions, particularly
concerning CGR, having a significant impact on passenger transport.
31.       Improved coordination between bus and rail passenger transport is
highly desirable in the areas of investment planning and pricing policy. Some
improvement in the areas of intermodal coordination is already taking place
with the enhancement of the capacity of the Ministry of Finance and Planning
to review and coordinate investment plans and operations of public agencies in
the transport sector.
Bus Passenger Transport Subsector
32.       Bus passenger transport services are provided by the nine Regional
Transport Boards (RTBs), which operate bus services over the entire island,
supported and coordinated by the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB).
The Government has very recently allowed private operators to operate buses on
selected routes, but with only about 100 private units to date, their impact
on public transport services has been small. The system whereby private
operators are licensed has a number of shortcomings. An improved and less
restrictive licensing system is desirable and justifiable both on grounds of
a better service to the travelling public and as an incentive to increase the
efficiency of the public bus operation. The Government has established a
committee to study the role of private operators in road passenger transport.
The Government would, by December 31, 1980, furnish to IDA a policy statement
on the participation of the private sector in road passenger transport,
together with a timetable for implementing necessary measures (Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) Section 3.07).
33.       The SLCTB and RTBs, all directly under the Ministry of Transport,
were created in 1978 to replace the former Ceylon Transport Board, which for
about twenty years had a monopoly for the operation of bus passenger services.
The functions of SLCTB include procurement, assembly of buses, reconditioning
of units (e.g. engines and gearboxes) and sub-units (e.g. generators), provi-
sion of certain centralized services (e.g., training), and coordination of



- 10 -
operational matters affecting more than two RTBs. Each RTB operates bus
services in a defined area of the country as an independent legal entity
subject to the coordination and oversight of SLCTB. The present organiza-
tional structure of SLCTB/RTBs was designed to achieve the objectives of
decentralizing the central control of bus operations, while retaining benefits
of scale for selected activites.
34.       Bus passenger traffic carried by the RTBs and their predecessor grew
slowly in the early 1970s at a rate of about 4% per annum; growth was not
continuous, and in some years traffic figures stagnated or even declined.
From 1974 onwards, however, traffic has grown at over 8% per annum. In 1978,
and with a fleet of about 7,300 buses, RTBs carried 1,744 million passengers
for a total distance of 17,827 million passenger-kms. The impressive bus
traffic levels achieved in Sri Lanka despite the deficiencies of the bus
operation in terms of unreliability and overcrowding, suggest the existence
of a high and inadequately satisfied demand for public passenger transport.
35.       The public bus transport industry has not had a clear set of objec-
tives on which to base investment and operational decisions. SLCTB would
prepare a coordinated Corporate Plan for itself and RTBs on the basis of
parameters drawn up by the Government. The Corporate Plan would include a
statement of the purpose and objectives of public sector road passenger
transportation for the period 1983-85, measures to be taken to achieve them,
investment requirements and arrangements for financing. The plan will be
prepared by a Task Force to be appointed by September 30, 1981, submitted to
the Government by April 30, 1982, and thereafter discussed with IDA (Project
Agreement (PA) Section 3.03).
36.       The SLCTB, together with RTBs, is the largest employer in Sri Lanka,
with a staff of about 61,000 in mid-1979, of which about 10,500 are in SLCTB,
and the balance in the RTBs. In general, both the SLCTB and the RTBs are over-
staffed and labor productivity is low. The SLCTB has recognized this problem
and imposed a freeze on the total staff members for itself and each RTB. A
comparison among the RTBs shows significant variations in the ratio of staff
to scheduled bus operations. In view of the prevailing situation, SLCTB
would carry out a review of staffing levels in SLCTB and RTBs and adopt by
September 30, 1980, satisfactory guidelines for appropriate staffing levels
(PA Section 3.05).
37.       The operating performance of RTBs has been adversely affected
by a declining standard of maintenance and erratic replacement of old buses.
This combined with the high demand for services has resulted in a vicious
circle of inadequate maintenance, a high level of breakdowns, and overcrowding
of buses leading to further breakdowns and skipping of routine maintenance.
One of the main project benefits will be an improvement in maintenance which
will be achieved by improving the availability of spare parts, providing new
depots, and relieving pressure on available vehicles by the addition of
new buses into the fleet.
38.       The manner in which timetable requirements (TTR) are determined is
largely responsible for the low reliability of bus services. Services are
planned at a level which cannot be met with the available fleet. The effect
of this is to spread available buses thinly over all scheduled services. As



- 11 -
a result of excessive demand placed on the available fleet, preventive main-
tenance is deferred, thus increasing the failure rates. SLCTB would place
limitations on the services provided by the RTBs to reflect the availability
of properly maintained buses (PA 3.04). This will encourage compliance with
preventive maintenance requirements of the entire fleet and particularly, for
buses to be procured under the project.
39.       The SLCTB operates facilities for the reconditioning of units and
subunits at the Central Workshop and five Provincial Workshops. The facili-
ties are poorly managed and there is lack of coordination between departments.
Manufacturing procedures, particularly quality control, are almost non-existent.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would ensure that satisfactory
arrangements to manage the industrial activities of SLCTB are in operation (DCA
Section 5.01(d)).
40.       The financial framework of SLCTB, RTBs and their predecessor has been
marked by reliance on the Government for capital grants and operating subsidies.
In recent years, operating subsidies have increased, mainly as a result of high
operating costs (including fuel and labor), inadequately offset by small
authorized fare increases. The Government has already decided to increase bus
fares by 40% to be effective not later than March 8, 1980. An objective of the
project is to ensure that the revenues of the RTBs will, from FY83 onwards, be
sufficient without a Government subsidy to cover costs of operation, adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes, interest, and depreciation of fixed
assets.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project is designed to provide assistance to SLCTB and RTBs with
a view to improving bus service in the country. It was identified by the Gov-
ernment in December 1977 with IDA assistance. The Bank Group's Project Prep-
aration Facility was used to finance consultancy assignments required for
preparation of this project. Appraisal took place in July/August 1979. A
staff appraisal report entitled "Road Passenger Transport Project". (No.
2716-CE dated February 22,1980) is being distributed separately to the Exe-
cutive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1980.
The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. M. Elayaperuma, Secretary, Ministry
of Transport. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
42.       The main project objectives are to provide a more reliable and
efficient bus service to meet the growing demand for passenger transport,
and offer an acceptable alternative to the use of private cars, thereby
restraining the growth of oil imports. To meet these objectives the project
would seek to: (i) improve the fuel efficiency of the bus fleet by the pur-
chase of new vehicles and improvement in maintenance standards; (ii) obtain
a higher utilization of existing buses and a longer life; (iii) pave the way
for a change in the present system of financing capital development through



- 12 -
100% grants, so that the RTBs will provide part of the new capital needs from
internal cash generation and borrowings; and (iv) end government subsidies for
bus operations.
Project Description
43.       The project consists of:  (i) restoration of the capacity of the
SLCTB to operate an efficient unit exchange and overhaul service; (ii) purchase
of chassis and materials, and assembly of about 2,100 new buses for use by the
RTBs; (iii) improvement of bus maintenance facilities, practices and bus
operations; (iv) low-cost traffic engineering measures designed to improve bus
flows; and (v) technical assistance for the execution of the project and
institution building.
44.       Restoration of the Unit Exchange and Overhaul Facilities.  This com-
ponent is designed to improve the output and quality of reconditioned units,
e.g., engines and gearboxes, sub-units e.g., generators and spare parts and
provide adequate facilities for bus overhauls in the Central Workshops near
Colombo and in the five Provincial Workshops. The Central Workshops will
cater for vehicles in the Colombo area and small numbers of vehicles of
diverse makes which are still in service elsewhere; they will also provide
some specialized facilities for the whole island. On completion of the
project, each Provincial Workshop will be equipped to recondition units and
sub-units for selected depots of neighboring RTBs and carry out complete bus
overhaul. By increasing output and raising the quality of reconditioned units
and parts, the SLCTB would be able to supply RTBs with reconditioned units
"off-the-shelf." This will reduce temporary and emergency repairs at depots,
thus releasing staff and equipment for routine maintenance, which will, in
turn, result in higher fleet availability.
45.       The unit exchange service needs an immediate supply of new units
to enable it to catch up on arrears of overhauls. This would be achieved by
the purchase of complete units, such as engines and major components (e.g.,
cylinder blocks) from the manufacturers or original equipment suppliers.
SLCTB is proceeding with bidding to obtain early delivery of these items.
46.       Procurement of New Buses.  This component provides for the purchase
of bus chassis, body building materials and the assembly of about 2,100 new
buses. The chassis are to be imported, as are most body materials, and
assembled by SLCTB. About 2,000 of the chassis will be similar to the types
already in service, with some small enhancements, and meet the requirements
of new buses (including replacement) till 1982. The remaining 100 will be
specified with additional features which are to be tried out in service. These
test vehicles are of a larger carrying capacity and similar to ones already
being tried in service in India under Bank-financed projects. Changes in spe-
cifications for purchases to be made in 1983 onwards will be determined on the
basis of road test and economic evaluation of test buses purchased under the
project; vehicle cost operating data will be collected during the project for
this purpose. The bus bodies will be fabricated and assembled onto chassis
at the SLCTB plant at Ekala to its standard specifications. The plant has
satisfactorily assembled similar bodies for over 15 years at prices which are



- 13 -
competitive with local or Indian manufacturers. The quality of work is satis-
factory. The project calls for an annual output of 900 buses (average of 75
per month), which is attainable.
47.       Improvements in Bus Maintenance and Operations.  This component
involves:    ) the construction and equipping of 22 bus depots; (ii) the
purchase of equipment for existing depots; and (iii) the purchase of equip-
ment for bus operations, including 2,500 new ticket machines. This component
will result in a higher standard of preventive maintenance in existing and new
depots, reduced congestion and dead mileage at existing locations, and improved
fare collection.
48.       Traffic Engineering Measures.  This component is designed to improve
the flow of buses mainly in urban areas through the implementation of low-cost
traffic engineering measures such as the installation of traffic signals, the
provision of bus lanes, the relocation of bus stops, the channelization of
congested intersections, and minor improvements to pavements and curbs. Such
measures are widely recognized to yield quick and large benefits. A set of
measures for Colombo has already been identified, and further ones will be
identified in other parts of the island during project implementation.
49.       Technical Assistance.  This component will provide consultancy
services and training. The consultants would assist SLCTB in the following
major areas: production, engineering, procurement; accounting, traffic opera-
tions, management reorganization, and supervision of construction. Consultancy
assignments will include 77 man-months of local consultants at an estimated
man-month rate of US$2,000 equivalent and a man-month cost of US$2,100 equiv-
alent. Provision has been made for local architectural services for the con-
struction of new depots at a cost of US$314,000 calculated on a fee basis of
8% of the estimated costs. A total of 143 man-months of expatriate services
is provided at an average estimated man-month rate of US$7,500 and a man-month
cost of US$9,600 which includes salary, costs, fees, international travel and
local subsistence. Expatriate consultants will assist in the reorganization
and management of the industial activities of SLCTB and in other specialized
fields such as route planning. As a condition of effectiveness, the SLCTB
would appoint consultants in the fields of procurement, accounting and indus-
trial engineering (DCA Section 5.01(e)).
Organization and Implementation
50.       The project, except the traffic engineering measures, would be
implemented by SLCTB which will be assisted by consultants. Traffic engineer-
ing measures would be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport,
which will coordinate the appropriate executing authorities; these agencies
are deemed capable of executing the project. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982.
51.       The project's physical components are similar to previous works
executed by SLCTB and should present no particular problems. The assembly of
buses as proposed is within the capacity of the assembly plant of SLCTB. The
construction program for new depots and Provincial Workshops is larger than
anything attempted by SICTB in the past; however, the project includes funds
for the employment of local architects and surveyors, who would supervise



- 14 -
about half this work, to supplement the civil engineering department of SLCTB.
The local private construction industry is not yet very active, but the small
size of each contract and the repetitive nature of the bus depots are thought
suitable for existing contractors and others wishing to enter the business.
52.       The accounting system of SLCTB and the RTBs is outmoded and records
seriously in arrears. This situation concealed a growing operating loss until
the position was revealed by a consultant report in August 1979. Consultants
have been engaged to assist with the work of updating the accounting records
and systems.
53.       The current bus fares are not sufficient to cover operating expenses
of RTBs and Government subsidies meet the shortfall. The Government intends
to end operating losses of RTBs by 1983. Towards achieving this end, it has
decided to raise fares by 40%, effective not later than March 8, 1980. The
Government will take all necessary measures to progressively reduce those
operating losses in the intervening years towards meeting the aforementioned
objective (DCA Section 3.08).
54.       At present, there exists a number of anomalies in fare structures
between different routes. These date back to the pre-1958 period, when
fares were set by private bus owner-operators operating on different routes.
In order to rationalize RTB fare structure, the Government would, commencing
January 1, 1981, arrange that these fare structures are adjusted in accordance
with guidelines issued by SLCTB (DCA Section 3.09).
55.       Monitoring will be carried out by a team to be created within SLCTB.
Monitoring will concentrate on (i) the performance of SLCTB's reconditioning
and overhaul facilities in terms of output quality and quantity; (ii) the
evolution of RTBs' operational indicators depicting the fleet position and the
quality and quantity of bus services; and (iii) progress in the management and
finances of SLCTB/RTBs. Monitoring will be conducted through quarterly
progress reports by SLCTB whose general format was agreed during negotiations.
The Government and SLCTB would prepare a project completion report not later
than six months after the closing date of the credit.
Cost and Financing
56.       The total project cost is estimated at US$86.4 million (including
taxes and duties of US$7.8 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange cost of
US$51.5 million. The estimates are based on prices of January 1979 except bus
chassis and materials which are based on mid-1979 prices. The proposed credit
would finance the full foreign exchange cost and contribute $1.5 million to
local costs, or about 67% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties.
The remaining local costs, amounting to about $33.4 million (inclusive of
taxes and duties) would be met by the Government. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 7-1/2% for machinery, equipment, construction, and technical
assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated assuming annual inflation
of 18% for 1979, 21% for 1980, 15% for 1981, 12% for 1982 and 10% thereafter
for domestic costs; and 12% for 1979, 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, and 8%
thereafter for foreign costs.



- 15 -
57.       Funds from the Credit (except an amount of US$0.2 million for
traffic engineering measures which would be channeled through the Ministry
of Transport), would be onlent to SLCTB through a subsidiary loan agreement
at an interest rate of 12-1/2% per annum over a period of fifteen years,
including a three-year grace period. Execution of the subsidiary loan agree-
ment between the Government and the SLCTB satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition of effectiveness (DCA Section 5.01(b)). The SLCTB would maintain
separate accounts for itself and for each RTB for the value of the benefits
received from the Credit. At the end of the project implementation period,
about US$44.6 million (estimated credit amount for bus chassis, body mate-
rials and improvements in bus maintenance and operation) of the total obliga-
tion of SLCTB would be transferred to RTBs in relation to the benefits received
by them under the Credit, on the same terms as the subsidiary loan agreement.
As a condition of effectiveness, the form and substance of agreements between
the Government, SLCTB and RTBs satisfactory to the Association indicating
acceptance by RTBs of these financial and other arrangements for project
execution would be furnished to the Association (DCA Section 5.01(c)). The
conclusion of such an agreement by an RTB would be required before goods and
facilities provided under the project are transferred to it by SLCTB (PA
Section 2.04(b)).
58.       Although the average annual rate of inflation has risen sharply
since 1978, reaching 18% in 1979, it is expected to peak in 1980, and decline
to about 12% by 1982. The current inflation is largely a result of policy-
induced price adjustments in administered prices and short-term demand-supply
imbalances in certain sectors, most notably construction. The Sri Lankan
authorities expect production to respond positively to the price changes and
the liberalization of the economy, and together with a tight rein over gov-
ernment budgetary deficits and credit expansion, to cause a slowdown in the
rate of inflation by 1981. Therefore, the onlending rate should be positive
over the lifetime of the debt obligation.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Equipment, machinery, materials, and bus chassis would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding following IDA guidelines
with a preference of 15%, or the cost of the import tariff, whichever is less,
allowed to local manufacturers. Procurement would be made through more than
one tender. Items costing under US$200,000 equivalent and not exceeding a
cumulative total of US$1 million would be procured under the Government's
normal competitive bidding procedures after bids have been received from at
least three suppliers. IDA will review all contracts valued at US$200,000
equivalent or more before an award is made. The civil works contracts are
small in size and unlikely to attract foreign firms. These works will be
either carried out through force account or awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
60.       Disbursements from the Credit account will be made as follows:
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported or 100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-factory) on locally manufactured or 60% of local expenditures
on locally procured equipment, machinery, tools, bus chassis, body materials,
and spare parts; (ii) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance; (iii) 90%



- 16 -
of local expenditures on civil works for traffic engineering measures. It
is proposed to retroactively finance expenditures for a float of units (e.g.,
gearboxes and engines) and subunits (e.g., generators) urgently required to
repair some idle buses, incurred after February 1, 1980. Such expenditures
would amount to a maximum of US$1.4 million; this amount would increase if
signing of .- credit agreement is delayed due to lack of IDA commitment
authority. Advances drawn from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF060),
with service charge accrued thereon, will be repaid out of the proceeds of
the proposed Credit as soon as it is declared effective.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       The proposed project will add to the bus fleet of the RTBs, thus
enabling them to meet the growing demand for travel. Through improved mainte-
nance procedures and steady supply of spares, the project will reduce average
vehicle maintenance and operating costs, stop and reverse the deterioration
of the fleet, and reduce the load factor of available vehicles.   The traffic
engineering measures will relieve congestion and facilitate service delivery
along major bus corridors and routes, and result in vehicle cost and time
savings. It is characteristic of the population of Sri Lanka that all classes
are highly mobile and the dominant mode of passenger transport is by road.
For the general riding public, the important effect of the project will be an
overall improvement in the quality of bus services, as measured by greater
availability and higher reliability of services.
62.       The overall economic rate of return of the project is conservatively
estimated to be 20% on the basis of operating and maintenance cost savings and
economic benefits resulting from trips made possible as a result of the pro-
ject. Under less conservative but still realistic assumptions, the economic
rate of return would be about 30%. Alternatively, more conservative assump-
tions of a 15% cost increase and 15% benefit decrease would result in an
economic rate of return of about 18%.
63.       The technical risks of the project are no greater than would normal-
ly be associated with operations of this type. The performance of SLCTB and
RTBs can be considered satisfactory in view of the constraints under which
they have operated so far. Technical assistance will be provided under the
project to strengthen the institutional capability of SLCTB and RTBs, parti-
cularly to implement the proposed project. The organizational and managerial
structure of the Boards, as strengthened under the project, will be adequate
for project implementation. The financial risks of the project arise out of
the possibility that it may fail to achieve the objective of terminating
Government subsidies by 1983. The recent decision to increase fare by 40%
is a positive step in this direction. The scale of fare increases required
in subsequent years have also been discussed with the Government, and the
progress towards achieving the intermediate steps will be monitored during
the project.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft Project
Agreement -_ween the Association and the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Special Conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness are the appointment of consultants
in the fields of procurement, accounting and industrial engineering, a satis-
factory arrangement for the management of industrial activities of SLCTB and
furnishing to IDA the form and substance of agreements, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Government, SLCTB and RTBs for the implementation
of the project and the provision of funds thereunder.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 27, 1980



-18-                                               Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LUNA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SAEET
LS -NZRU C  GROUPS (ADJUSTED AMAGES
L4NMD AREA (INOUSAMtD SO.  I. )              S^ LANA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMTE) '
TOTAL             65.6                                                  sAm         SmE      NE  HaIHE
AGRICULTURAL      24.2                                MOT RECZNW      COCGRLIC   INCOm          INCME
1960  lA    1970 Lk ESTIMATE LD      EGION /e  GROUP L    GROUP L
GYP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       100.0     190.0           191.1      209.6       467.5
NERGY CONsUkrIoN PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL IQIVALUNT)      107.0       153.0    106.0             69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      9.9        12.5      14.1
U lN POULATION (PERCENT OP TOTL) 17.9           21.9      24.3-           13.        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROjwToNs
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEUR STATIONARY POPULATION IS  EEACU                  2070
POPULATION DENSrIT
PER SQ. Em.                      131.0       191.0    215.0             86.6       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0       518.0    583.0            330.2      252.0      149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTM  (PUCENT)
0-14 YES.                         42.1        41.9      38.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 TRS.                        54.3        54.5      58.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.6       4.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROVM RATE (PUCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2.4       1.7             2.4        2.4         2.7
IRBAS                              4.8         4.3       3.7             4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE BIRTEH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    36.0        30.0      26.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TSOUSAD)       9.0         7.0       6.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         2.3       1.8             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         55.3     113.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED  OM)    ..           8.0      44.0             7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND UTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.2      103.0      120.0            99-4       98.2        n.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   98.0        94.0      91.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         46.0         43.1      42.6            56.1       52.L        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.7        11.8       8.9            10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      7.0         3.0       2.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
REALTI
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH ( )EARS)    62.0       67.0      69.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           63.0        51.0      47.DL -.                  105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        21.0      20.0            3L.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               *-       46.0       45.0            63.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                              ..         14.0      L3.0            20.1      15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EYCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        64.0      59.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URsAN                               ..        76.0      68.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..        61.0      55.0             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4500.0         ..   6230.0LR          7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION ?ER NURSING PERSON    4150.0       2730.0    2240.0        12064.0    5552.4        1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            330.0       330.0    330.0           2738.4     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               *-       130.0    140.0              ..       197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..       570.0    600.0              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL RED           ..        54.0      51.3              *-       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4Lf       5.8       ..              ..         5.3         5.4
UaRBAN                             6.3Lf       6.3       ..              ..         4.9         5.1
RURAL                              5.2LL       5.5       ..              ..         5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
MTAL                               2. Of       2.5       ..
URBAN                              2./         2.7       ..
RURAL                              2.0/f       2.5       ..
ACCESS TO LECTRICITYT (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              7.5Zf       9.0        ..              ..        2.5        18.1
JRBAN                             35.97       34.;        .               ..       17.8        .5.1
RURAL                              2.37F       2.3        ..              ..         ..         9.9



-19-                                       Annex I
Page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LANWA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANMA                 REIfRENCE GRtOUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
T- nos RECENT ESTIMATE) a
SAKH       SAME      HEXS HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GIOGAMUC    INCOKE        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        99.0      77 .O1           59.5       63.3        82.7
MKLE                100.0       104.0      60.0 1          74.9        79.1        87.3
FEMALE               90.0        94.0      73.O#L          43.7        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 27.0        51.0      55.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
IALE                 38.0        50.0      54.0             27.8       22.1        33.0
FEMAUE               16.0        51.0      56.0             10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   ..          1.0        1.0             1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
pRiMaY                            31.0          ..      29.0             42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                           ..          ..        ..              ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERUCY RATE (PERCENT)       75.0/h      77.6      78.1             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         7.0       6.8             2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        36.0          ..      38.0             15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCMATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 36.0        49.0        *-              6.2        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          ..        4.0              *-        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3391.0      4188.0   4707.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  22.6        23.7      28.5            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.3        55.1      54.0             66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.5        14.4      15.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.3        33.5      34.6            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                50.8        49.2       48.2            52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              16.2        16.5      20.3             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.2              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOtE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4          ..      18.6              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1        43.4      42.8              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5         7.5       7.3              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7        19.2      19.3              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMAIt-D POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
LNCOME ! EVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            44. 3      44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/s    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incole (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1963;  A  Registered;  ih  1962;  ii  1973; L   public education only.
Moat Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-20-                                                   ~~~~~~Annex I
DU== O S rL eIAT                                                                  Page 3 of 6 pagea
Note.   Althoug  the data ar  draw  fromsre  generally judged the mast snthoitatie   end reliable, it should alo be stied that they May not he inten-
thona.lly coparble becaue of the lack of standardized definition   nd concpts used by differet coutries in collectign the data, The data  r                            etees
ose fol to describe orders of mantud, indicate trends, and oharterine oertain   ajor differesses beteeen ocutries,
The adiusted grop averges for eah indio-tor  -  ppoition-eeighted geometeo mean, enludig the etrem   values of the indiomtor and the mast popuated
ocotry in each grop.  Dose to ka of duta, grop avrages of .11 indicators f-o  Capital Burpluss Oil P,porters end of indicators of Access no Water  An  Eareta
Disposal, Honing, Inc-   Distribution and Poverty for other costis  groups   cpopulation-wighted geintric  --ma  witht e-clsuion of the -atrem   vauesad
tie scat poPAited cooty   Since the covrage of ontisagthidctrsdependson a- aibiliy fdtasdis sot s.if--m. cation mat be enerised
in relating aveage  ofoe indicator to another.  Ths   vrgsaesti  usfL usapoiain                                      of "epeted" valewhncmaigteae.ooe
indicator at a time sng tecutry and -refrnc-               ross
IAND AREA (th-osnd sq.km.)                                                                   Acest   xreaDa n  (preto                    ioua-tion) - total, orban  ed rurl 
Ttl-Total  -eorfe s-ec-pricing  lan   oaadiln    aesFoe   fpol   htni   -hn   o  rrl   eved by encret   ipoa
jTutri-  lact --trn  estimate of agricultur`al area usd temprarily                    per entages of their repective popsitions. Exereta disposal may include
Pr perunrtly fcr crpo,poture   whet and kitoben gardens or to                            the colletion nod disposal1, with or without tretmet, of han   sovret
lie fil-o                                                                                  and w-te-wter by eater-horse syntm   or the use of pit privies sad n,.alar
GaP PER CAPITA (US$) -GNP5 per capita e-tinato  at c-rret maket prices                       Pcai" pe    wioian  -IPoplation divided by outer of practicing physician
calvolated by zaenovroie aethod ac World Bunk Ata   17-8hus;                                 quaifiedpfrom a dmedl  nhnnl at university leve.
960o, 1970,-ad 1978 data.                                                                 Popultion pe  Nursing Perso  - Population divided by nomber of praticing male
PEtistY C09UPrPd4fION PER CAPITAd - Annua  c--uptios of c-aeial enmyad fe.sle gradsste nrs,putioal 'nurses, and assistantnus.
(coa  an  llnit, ptroieu, natural gao and hydro-, nuclea  an  g                      Pnsu..atifis per ONs..itaBe-   totl   ra.ed rua                 ouain(ca,ubn
t'hermal elvotrityp), inkilugr-   of ccal vquinlent per capita; 1960,                        and rura) divided by their  epcien e  of hospital beds availble  in
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                         public and prints general and specialized bstpit.l and rehabilitation centers.
H-pitals are establiso-tat  permaently staffed by at leantione physician
POPLqATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              tEtablishmests providing principally custodial cae 5cnt inluded.  aR-1
Total Popitis                    11dter(ico)-   A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                honpitals, howevr, isslude health and medical centers not permaently stafe
1977 data,t"                                                                               by_a physicien (hat by a  edlz-l  -nistent, nremidwife, etc.) which offer
UrbanPplto      n  perce.t of total) - ptio of urbn ho total population;                     in-patient  -ucadation and proide a limited rage of medical facilities,
dfeetdefialton I     of ra  ar-n  ey affect comparbility of data                   Adasiono- pee Hospital bed - Total nuber of udalsio.s tz or discharges fine
sang c-utriro; 190, 1970, and 1975 data                                                   hospitals divided by the nuber of hyde.
PoplatIon Projections
Population in year 200-Current population projections are basd on                      OUlSINGd
1970 total  pouainy vad Sen and theiJr ectality and fertility                         Averae Sine of Household (pees on- per houshold) - total,   hen, and rura  -
rates.PrjctIon Parantr  for  oteli ty eases comprise of three                           A ho..eehold oc..sists of a grop of individoaa who share living quarters and
levels  =onu inlfv  opeot-ny at birth Inra ing             th country's                 their main meala.  A boader or lodge  may or may not he included in the
per capit. icme_lecel,od frenle life e-p-etncy stbilining at                           household foe  tatiati-1 PurPoses.
70.5 years.  Thc par-mters for fert ility rate also hav  thrve levels                 Average number of peraun  per rom-  toa, urban, and rura  - Average sober
-uonln  decIne in fertility accrding to incm   level and pant                          of _rsooprro   nalubn   n   ualoope   ovninldelno
famil  danin  perforane  tach coutry is tbez assigned one o,f these                     respectIvely.  D-eliNga enclde non-permanet strutures and unoccpiedp prs.
sine cobination, of ecetlity and fertility trends for pe-jctis                        Accs  to Electricity j      reto   ulns      oa,ubn   n   ua          n
purposes.                                                         cea~~~~~~~~tiona  Awellinga    ieetiiyi   iig   ureea   ecnaeo
Stationar   cpulation - In  stationary population there is no groth                        total -uban, and rura  darllings repectively.
sincetlhe birthrn~tcinIequal to tic deathrae;,t,Y andals thieage
strucu_   reein contant. This~ is _cic-e  olafte  fertility rates                  EDCXATION
dv-Ii-eto the rcplncrnent level of unit set reproduction rate,  h-r                    Adjusted Eoro1lent Patios
eah pe-rtion of _ne  r-plc_   itself --atly.  The stationary popo-                      PrimaY echool -tota   sal  and female-..en  total, male and fesale  -.11-
latiosiseaorsiwotd on tic basis of toe projected  hiarmteiatics                     sent of all age  at the primr  levl a  p-eretages of respmrti-e primary
of the pultion in tb  per- 2003, and tie rnte of decline of fertility                    snhocl-nge popul.tos  o            i-yinludes childre  aged 6-11 year  but
rate to replacemet level                                                                   adjusted for diffe-et lengths of primary eduratino; for  -outri-aith
Yasttorypopulation in -eahcd -The p-ra  wen etati-oay populatios                    unvra"euain  nost "ap   oed 100percent ai-  som  pupils
sine :hasbe-      eoe.ae be     or -abvethe official1 scolae. 0
Population Density                                                   lecondary~~S   -hoo1 - total, male and fPale - Computed a   b  r   eo r
PU Od-yea  popuinti-o Pr sqar iloater (100 b-etres) of                              edusatios rqies  t least four year  of approve.d Primary Instrution;
tntal area                                                                                 provdes genreal voctional, or teacher training bst-uti-s  for pupils
Per 1u* ion. ugricuitura1 land - Computed aabc for agricultural land                         usually of I2 is 17 years of nge;c-r-epo-des.c.c.u.aeor-  gpnera.lly
only.                                                                                      e-cudd
Popultion Ag St-utur  (p-r-et) - ChildAce  (0-14 year),  -nking-ge                           Pocati=na  eoolmet  pecet  of aendr)- Vocational institutions inolode
(15-hi yer)  an   vie (5pasad  -vcr  as perces-tages of mid-year                            t-chalol * industrial, or othe   pen ia hi  operate independentlyora
poplation  1960, 1970,nod"1977 dsta.                                                         depar-tmet  of -aedsry institutions.
PopulationG i    hw  latc (percet) - total - Ansual   -th rates of total aid-                Npltaheai      rmr,ad secondary - Potal students e-1nind.is
pr -ouain   for 1950-o  1960-70, an  1907primary andscndr  leel  d  ivded byaube-a of teasere ho the crer-
Poultion Ir_th Ontc (percet) -  ra       nulgrowth eaten of urban                           speding levels
pplations for 1950-60, 19b1-70, and 1970-75.                                            Adult literary rat  (percent) -literte adolts (able to read and eite) o
Crude Birth zate (per th-usad) - Annua  lice  irtbo per thousad of mid-                        apercentage of total adlt population aged 15 years and ove r.
year popuition; 10, 1970  -an  1977 data.-
Crude  Det    pae er thousan) - An-ca  d-atbo Per tihuand c'i  d-year                   C50g5D10I
poultin;1   , 1970, ond 1977 data                                                 Pasn er Cr  (per thousnd poplation) - Passenger car  coprise etor oars
Gene   -erd..tion  nate - Aveae,        a    of' daughters acoma  sill bear                  ...ting lens then eight pere.s.s; macloden saboncv, he.-.es end military
in her no-al reproductive pvrioc if shre-peri-oepeetage-                                   -ehiole..
specific  fr.t ility rates; usullyin-ye-n  averges ending isk 1960,                     izdi. pecciver  (pee thousad poplahtion.) - All types of recivers for radio
1970, and 195                                                                             bjd-ts to general. pbic pe              oad ofppltion ;   cloe n unlcened
F-aily P lnnig - Acceptors  Accul (tio-sads)  A- Anua tuber of                               reciesi   outisadInyasee  regitnIon   frndio    acni
aceptors of birth-cotrol d--ce  under aupice f ontio...l family                            effet; data for recet years may not be  -opara ble since  -.t countries
plesi,ng program.                                                                          a'bolibd licening-
Pa_il  Planin - User  (pren f weird nes    Percentge of wreid                             TV  ecies(pee' thuad poultion) - TV receivers for b-od-nt to genreal
comes  f obild-heearingage  lt5-Oh yer)  b  usbirth--otrci devire.                        publi  per thousnd ppoplation; e-cld-s unicensed TV  -ecicernincoutri-o
toal  mried  -ce  in  -s  age grop.                                                    and in year  when registration of TV neon weIeffect.
FOOD AlSO NUfViTi0i5                                         iSouscaper Circulatiza  (per thounand ojlti)-Shown the averge nircultins
FOOD AND WM __T___                                                                             of 'daily geea   neetaappr,dfined aaperiodical public-tice
Toum   of Food i'rodiotion  per Capita (1969-71-i00) - Codes of per capits                  devoted pr~imaily to rec-ding general  -e.  It in coniderd to be "daily'
anulprdcin   of           1 al  odcnite.Poutonrue                       .ed and            if it appenen at least four times aceek.
fedadin on -1-dn- yea  bais.  Comoditie- coer prie-Y pondS                         Cinem  Annual Attednc  e          aita see Year - Bued on thenubro  tickets
(en    "uaran  ioseo   of nua)aih are edible an drotats   oteieatn                     sold during the Year  inclding ad.i..io. to driv-i   biea   n                 mble
(e.g. coffer nsd ten ore rociuded).  Aggregate production of sac    -tamy                 units..
i- based on nainlaerage produ-r pricewe 'pihts.
Per cacit  sunpir of   oiro  (pret of requirements) - Cmputed from                    IAB FORfCE
vaepyvovlcrfstfodsple,vial,i   onr   e   apt                                          Total Labor Forc  (thousads) - Eoonoically active perons, including armed
pedey.  Aeallabl  supplies coprine doetic prsdictn   import  les                      foresad unemloyed but e-clding hosnv                   tudents,   c. Deiniti...
esorts, and changes in otock.  wet  opplie-  e-lode animal feed, sends,                 in variou   -sutries are not coparble.
quanotities usd I  fo  proesig  and looses- in distrihutia.  Pequire-                 female _centr t) -      .fem leb lbr fore as percentage of total labor force.
nests se-  estiuntd by PAO basd on physiiogi-al reds for onmal                        A riva tore       c at)- laborforce in faring, foretry, hunting and
ctioitp  and hvath conidering rirscaitemperatur, body nelgists,                         fishing as persea.tage of total labor foeze.
agetand hs     ,t istnbutio.. Cf population, and a11aig 10 percent foe                Industry  (p-eret) - Labc  foror- in aiang, nourci,mnfacturing and
unta    oshold I ...                                                             electricity,ete.tr and gn   sperentage of total labor force.
Pee onpits  suppl f proei  (gn    per Any)- Pfeotin con tent of pee                       atopainnt  (percet) ~-_total    ae   n  fel  - Participation  or
capita set supply of food pc- Any. Ne   sply offod in dofe  asaticity rates are  optdu   oa,ml, and fmle-   labr force  us per-
above. ihequ irvaroto for all coutries entnblihed by USDA provide for a                  -tsigee of total, male and femleppulati on of' all ages respectively;
adoimu  allnane of60 penn of total protein pee day and 20 gesa of                       1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  Thes           ILOs Pit    atinipation rates reflecting
annel and pulse protein, of such 10 pre-  nid be anima  protein,                        age-sea struture of the population, and long time tread.  A few etimates
These standard  areiner than thos eo.f75 g=    f total protein and                      ar   eautinsi sucs
PSgraso  aia  protein onanavrge for the eceld, proposed by PAP                        WznnsDntas    ai                 aio of population onde  15 and 65 end over to
in the Third Wo.rld rood  tuhy.bslbo   os ~in  g   ru  of 15-k  eas
Per capita protein  supply fromanima  and pulse - Protric supply of food
derived frcm  anml  adplssi  gs    erdy                                             12     DISTRIUMITIC
Child (ages 1-u)  yaeat  Oas(r          _tosn)- Annual doathss pee thouoan.d               Pecnae" rvt   na)obi   ah and kind) - Received by rishest
inaegoP 1    er,t   hlrni  thin  g   ru;fo   ctdvl                                   5 P- 'se, richest  W0pret,  -ert 2  percen, and posest hO percent
opiag -rutrion data derivd from  life tables                                               of households.
HEAiTH                                                                                     POVEWY TARGET GRPOUPS
lfe  Enotnya   it   yas       vrg   uhro   er   f life                                     Estimated Absolute  Poverty Incom  level (USP  per capita) - urban end rurlI
reminig   t birth  190   90   n   977. data.                                          Absolute poverty incoe  leve  is that issa  1e-1 heln whisk a minimal
infant IgrtlI ty  Pate (per th-uond) - Annual deaths of infants under onntritionally sdsqute diet plus essen.tia  no-food requir-ests is Not
yaof ag  pr th-ouad live hiths.                                                         afrdahIit.             ryL
Access to Oafs Watr(ecnsfpouain -ttl  uban  an ual-                                        Etimatedb  -eetv   Pery   nc = .levl              per .,pits) - when  mad rura-
Dote.r of prople  tota, urban,  In rora   with resoabe1 ccs  to                            PsRa  reaiepsrylo    ee   soethird of average per .apit.
safe enter supply (includes treated surface nater  or untreated but                        personal inom    f the oc-try. Urban leve  is dsrisd fro  the rura  leve
ucotaminated water ech as tint fro  prctected   rhobles, springs,                          with adjustmet fur higher cos t of livin  is urbn a-ne
ad santar  sells) as percentages of iheir repective populatioss. In,                   Estimated  POplaio  Bel-w Absolute POvety  lasne Levl (retes). - uba  MAn
anubenae   pubic fo,untals or standpst Imeted set  mar  thenrrl-  ecn  of ppopulato   (urban en  rura) who.r                                              bslt  puce'.
200 mter  ftom a hous  may be coniderd as being  ithin reasonable
aresof that bone.  In rura  nosna reuonble me-s  moul  imply
that the h-.se.ife or meter  of the household do not hav  to spend a                                                               tem is s.d Bcial Pain Piviso
disproportiona.te part of the day in fetching the family, mater ... ds                                                       Po-oic Analysts sad Prajetion  Dlpartat
Angust 19I9



Annex I
- 21 -                          Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                         EST
1965     1970      1976      1977      1978     1979
NATIOI   ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                1783.0   2354.0   2747.3   2811.4   3020.7   3145.4
Gains from Terms of Trade              539.7    242.2    185.1    413.4    362.6          9.5
Gross Domestic Income                 2322.7   2596.2   2932.4   3224.8   3383.3   3154.9
Imports                              1189.8   1017.3    913.5    999.3   1272.8   1490.5
Exports - Volume                     -670.2   -662.9   -660.5   -694.5   -754.8  -1097.2
Exports - TT. Adjusted              -1209.9   -905.1   -845.6  -1107.9  -1117.4  -1106.7
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted            -20.1    112.1      67.9   -108.6    155.4    383.8
Total Consumption                    2055.9   2239.0   2563.6   2648.2   2891.1   2739.9
Investment                            246.8    469.4    436.8    468.0    647.6    798.7
National Savings                       244.3    297.9    350.7    570.6    511.1    569.6
Domestic Savings                       266.9    357.3    368.9    576.6    492.3    415.0
GDP at Current US$                   1686.6   1870.6   2424.2   2821.3   2546.3   3286.7
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF GDP AT 1975 PRICES)
Agriculture                            0.444    0.422    0.376    0.387    0.322    0.306
Industry                              0.171    0.211    0.217    0.201    0.260    0.269
Services                              0.385    0.367    0.407    0.412    0.418    0.425
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                    65.65    56.86    95.16   119.13   125.63    91.60
Import Price Index                    36.37    41.64    74.33    74.67    84.86   134.20
Terms of Trade Index                 180.52   136.55   128.02   159.53   148.05    68.30
GDP Deflator (US$)                     94.59    79.47    88.24   100.35    84.30   104.50
Annual Average Exchange Rate            4.76     6.85    10.88    11.06    15.61    15.61
Growth Rates       1978 Share
1965-77            of GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                            3.9               100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                             0.3
Gross Domestic Income                             2.8               100.3
Imports                                          -1.4                47.4
Exports - Volume                                  0.3                34.9
Exports - TT. Adjusted                           -0.7                35.2
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted                                          12.2
Total Consumption                                 2.1                87.1
Investment                                        5.5                25.4
National Savings                                   7.3               18.1
Domestic Savings                                   6.6               13.2
GDP at Current US$                                4.4
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                                5.1
Import Price Index                                6.2
Terms of Trade Index                             -1.0
GDP Deflator (US$)                                0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-77
ICOR                                              4.37
Import Elasticity                                -0.39
Average National Savings Rate                      0.11
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.32
Imports/GDP                                       0.44
Investment GDP                                    0.16
Resource Gap/GDP                                  0.04
1/ Components may not add up because of rounding.



- 22 -
SRI LANKA                                 Annex I
Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973     1974    1975       1976    1977    1978      1979
A C T U A L                       EST.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Exports (incl. NFS)          424.3    570.4   628.2    628.5   827.3   948.0    1146.0
2. Imports (incl. NFS)          445.3    731.7   798.8    679.0   746.2  1106.0    1548.0
3. Resource Balance             -21.0   -161.3  -170.6    -50.5    81.1  -158.0    -402.0
4. Net Factor Service Income  -17.3    -16.6   -18.4    -20.1   -15.0   -15.0           -16.0
.1 Net Interest Payments      -14.7    -14.7   -15.9    -18.6   -14.0
of which on PUB M&LT Loans-15.5    -16.5   -20.6    -23.1   -22.1
.2 Direct Investment Income   -2.7       -2.0    -2.4       -1.5    -1.1
.3 Workers Remittances (net)    .0          .0      .0        .0      .0
5. Current Transfers (net)         .2       -.2     2.8       6.6    10.5    22.0        45.0
6. Balance on current account -38.1   -178.1  -186.2    -64.0    76.6  -151.0    -373.0
7. Private Direct Investment       .5      1.3      -.2        .0     -.3
8. Grants & Grant-like Flows   13.0       42.0    77.0       58.0    60.8    57.0       134.0
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9. Disbursements                 83.8    146.3   157.4    210.4   150.1   222.0         270.5
l0.Amortization                 -39.1    -52.4  -117.7   -103.8  -101.9   -46.5         -51.7
1l.Net Disbursements             44.7     93.8    39.7    106.7    48.2   175.5         218.8
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12.Disbursements                   .0        .0      .0        .0       .0      .0         .0
13.Amortization                    .0        .0      .0        .0       .0      .0         .0
14.Net Disbursements               .0        .0      .0        .0       .0      .0         .0
15.Use of IMF Resources          -1.4     33.3    27.9       11.1    46.9    36.0        67.0
16.Short-term Capital
Transactions                  -9.8     13.2    -2.8    -22.6       6.5       .0         .0
17.Capital Transactions NEI    28.2       62.3   -12.0    -31.8   -56.9   -36.0        -13.8
18.Change in Reserves
(-   Increase)       1/     -37.1      56.8    56.6    -57.4  -183.0   -81.0        -33.0
19.Net Foreign Exchange-
Reserves (end of period)   -11.0    -67.8  -124.4    -67.0   116.0   151.8          184.8
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Official Grants               21.1     37.0    76.0       53.1   104.3   123.7      472.5
2. Total Public M&LT Loans       92.1    233.1   285.8    221.8   167.6   324.9         728.5
.1 IBRD                          .0         .0      .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.2 IDA                           6.0     24.0    29.5         .0    41.2    25.5       68.0
.3 Other Multilateral            2.8      2.5    30.0       8.1    49.7    83.2
.4 Governments                  58.4     72.9   196.6    140.9    69.7   192.8
.5 of which Centrally Planned
Economies 2/                  2.6     21.4    56.1        4.2     1.7    10.0
.6 Suppliers                    25.0    133.6    29.7       72.7     7.0    23.4
.7 Financial Institutions         .0        .0      .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.8 Bonds                          .0        .0      .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.9 Public Loans NEI               .0        .0      .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
3. Other M&LT Loans (where
available)                      .0        .0      .0        .0       .0      .0         .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant Element of Total
Commitments                45.000    27.100   55.700  39.800  64.400   62.686    60.597
2. Average Interest Rate         .037       .051     .029    .040    .021       .024       .020
3. Average Maturity (years)  23.700    13.600   28.800  20.500  35.400   29.529    39.715
1/ Net Foreign Assets: US$ Equivalent of Line 31, IFS.
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Republic of China,
North Korea, North Vietnam.
February 27, 1980                     .. figures not available



- 23 -                                      Annex I
Page 6 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL                 __- __197        EST.
1973        1974     1975       1976      1i,--       1978        1979
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)            484.8       587.3    598.0       702.3      787.0     974.5      1,179.5
Including Undisbursed                                 680.1       875.7    997.0   1,103.8   1,217.9   1,428.1         2,193.2
Public Debt Service                                   -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0        -94.9
Interest                                              -15.5       -16.5    -20.6      -23.1      -22.1      -22.8
Other M&LT Debt Service                                   .0         .0        .0         .0         .0         .0
Total Debt Service                                    -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0        -94.9        -90.5
DEBT BURDEN
Debt Service Ratio                                     12.9        12.1      22.0       20.2       15.0       10.0          7.7
Debt Service Ratio 1/                                  13.5        12.4      22.4       20.4       15.1       10.1
Debt Service/GDP                                        2.7         2.7       5.2        5.2        4.4        3.7          2.8
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                 15.7        10.0      19.0       20.0       23.5       14.7         10.0
TERMS
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                         3.2         2.8       3.4        3.3        2.8       2.3           2.4
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                           11.3        11.7      23.1       18.1       15.8       9.7           7.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
Gross Disb./Imports (Incl. NFS)                        18.8        20.0      19.7       31.0       20.1      Z4.1         14.8
Net Transfer/Imports (Incl. NFS)                        6.6        10.6       2.4       12.3        3.5      15.4         10.7
Net Transfer/Gross Disb.                               34.9        52.9      12.1       39.7       17.4      63.6          72.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                            6.5         3.4       3.6        1.6       1.3          .7           .7
Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disbursements             12.4        10.9      12.2        4.0        8.7       5.6           7.8
IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                      6.6         5.8       6.1        5.1       4.4        3.3          2.7
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                9.5        10.0      12.5       11.3       11.3      10.3          9.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                    8.0         7.4       4.0        4.7       4.9        6.1          5.9
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service              8.1         7.5       4.2        5.0        5.2       6.5           6.5
OUTSTANDING DECEMBER 31, 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                                AMOUNT             PERCENT
IBRD                                                                             34.3                4.4
Bank Group                                                                       89.0               11.3
Other Multilateral                                                               43.8                5.6
Governments                                                                     574.9               73.0
Of Which Centrally Planned Economies 2/                                        52.8                6.7
Suppliers                                                                        79.2               10.1
Financial Institutions                                                             .1                 .0
Bonds                                                                               .0                .0
Public Debt NEI                                                                     .0                .0
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                          787.0             100.0
Other Public M&LT Debt                                                              .0                .0
Other M&LT Debt                                                                     .0                .0
Total Public Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                     1,217.9             154.8
Total M&LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                       1,217.9             154.8
DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1978-82/Total DOD End of 1977                                 63.5
1/ Including Net Direct Investment Income
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam
.. Figures not available
February 27, 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                     Amount (net of
Credit                                                       cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose  -          Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and seven credits fully disbursed           73.4   71.5
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development               9.0     7.1
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                 5.0     4.4
701     1977   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Development II               19.0    18.8
709     1977   Sri Lanka        Water Supply                     9.2     5.6
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial IV             8.0     4.3
818     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)            21.0    20.5
819     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)             4.5      3.1
891     1979   Sri Lanka         Kurunegala Rural
Development                 20.0    20.0
900     1979   Sri Lanka        Road Maintenance                16.5    16.5
931     1979   Sri Lanka        Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research       15.5    15.5
942     1979   Sri Lanka         Small and Medium
Industries                  16.0    16.0
979     1980   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Technical Assistance          3.0     3.0
Total,                                                  73.4  218.2   134.8
of which has been repaid                              39.2    -
Total now outstanding                                   34.2  218.2
Amount sold,                              3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6                  -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                       34.2  218.2
Total undisbursed                                        N7i  134.8   134.8
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -     0.1       0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking      2.0      -        2.0
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                 1.9      .4       2.3
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag          .9     .1       1.0
1980 Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon  Development Banking          -       .05      .05
Total Commitment now held by IFC                4.8      .65     5.45



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION l/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide processing equipment
to the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for supplying to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. Before proceeding with refor-
mulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate incentives to
the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and stabilizing feed
prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and the climate for
dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would focus on
what was a small component of the original project -- support to dairy co-
operatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in a
manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to
a considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers. A review mission visited Sri Lanka in July, 1979, and reported
good progress.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads, (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and
(e) technical assistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems. The construction program is behind schedule by about
one year due to delays in procurement of construction equipment, civil dis-
turbances in 1977, and shortage of experienced staff for surveys, designs and
supervision. Practically all construction equipment has now been procured
and construction progress has begun to pick up significantly. However, in
order to complete the project within the revised time schedule, additional
equipment will be required and tendering for this equipment has just recently
been started. Unfortunately, quality control has been neglected (either
through lack of training and experience or through negligence) and some of
the completed works are extremely poorly constructed. Some of these works
will have to be reconstructed or water losses and O&M costs will be unaccept-
ably high. The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality con-
trol and closely monitor future work and will reconstruct those facilities
which do not function properly after operation commences. In this regard,
a quality control training program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation in the USA for three Irrigation Department engineers during
November-December 1978 and it is hoped that construction quality will improve
to the levels required. A well-qualified Water Management Specialist has
been appointed (part-time) to set up a water management training program for
Irrigation Department staff and farmers and much improvement is expected in
this area. A full-time resident Project Manager has been appointed, but
his initial input to the project has been disappointing. Project completion
is expected to be delayed about one year.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes on 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone, together
with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in the form
of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and processing
facilities for 71,000 acres and improved agricultural extension services for
106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with Canada, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC. The Govern-
ment has undertaken development of the project on an accelerated basis and
will probably complete the project by end 1980. Unfortunately, in its haste
to meet unrealistic target dates, the Mahaweli Development Board (MDB) pro-
ceeded to implement the project without proper planning and coordination and
without regard to quality standards and acceptable work practices, resulting



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
in poorly constructed and only partially completed project works. The MDB has
since improved its quality control and planning and coordination capability
and a significant improvement in project implementation has occured. The
work is continuing to improve due to the greater awareness and effort on the
part of MDB staff and no major problems currently affect progress other than
disbursements for civil works. It is expected that the project will be cora-
pleted about 1-1/2 years earlier than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10, 1977; Effective
Date: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes, intro-
ducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
A tariff study has been completed and is under review by the Government.
Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during the past year,
particularly in procurement. Thirty three contracts have been awarded,
resulting in a commitment of about US$13 million out of the credits.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$5.7 million have been authorized.
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards have been



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4. mnillion of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date:  December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Founda-
tions for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. The project has now reached a stage where the more
difficult social part of the project, namely transport of non-citizen labor
to other estates, settler selection, and land allocation will have to be
tackled.
Cr. No. 891 -  Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will also strengthen agri-
cultural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as
fertilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a
viable agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments
will be complemented by investments in transportation, health, education,
water supply and rural electrification. Subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks have been signed and the project unit set up. A super-
vision mission reviewed the project in August and reported good progress.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project iuld also provide plant and equipment for workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants have
recently been appointed and started their work.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so
as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would
have two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing
services. Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in
the National Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made to
small and medium industries by commercial banks and the Development Finance
Corporation. The technical services component would be implemented by the
Industrial Development Board, Department of Small Industry, Department of
Textile Industries, and the National Institute of Management, and directed at
specific subsectors - rubber products, light engineering, subcontracting
exchanges, handlooms, coir products, and rice milling.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million;
not yet effective
The proposed project would provide technical assistance for: (i),pre-
paration of a reconnaissance-level study of plans for conveying and utilizing
surplus Mahaweli Ganga water to develop land in three alternative areas in
order to select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) ongoing
review of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Canal, and preparation
of final designs and tender documents for construction of civil works and
social infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin; and (iii)
support for other studies and designs of project's in the Mahaweli Ganga Devel-
opment Program. Training of local staff is included throughout the project.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
An EEC Special Action Credit of aboutUS$2.0 million equivalent was also
approved in January 1980 to assist in financing consultant's services for the
ongoing review of the designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Canal
and the preparation of final design and tender documents for System C.



- 31 -                   ANNEX III
Page I
SRI LANKA
ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
1 year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
SLCTB with assistance from consultants recruited under
Project Preparation Facility.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
May 1978 - September 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
July 16, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
January 29, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
July 14, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  Government would by December 31, 1980, furnish to IDA
its policy statement on the participation of the private
sector in road passenger transport with a timetable for
implementation of necessary measures (para 32);
(b)  SLCTB would prepare a Corporate Plan for itself and RTBs
for 1983-85 by April 30, 1982 and discuss the same with
IDA (para 35);
(c)  SLCTB would adopt guidelines for satisfactory staffing
levels for itself and RTBs by September 30, 1980 (para
36);
(d)  SLCTB would restrict RTB services to reflect the avail-
ability of properly maintained buses (para 38);
(e)  Government would take necessary measures, to end
operating losses to RTBs by 1983 (para 53);
(f)  in order to rationalize RTB fare structure, Govern-
ment would, commencing January 1, 1981 arrange for
adjustment of RTB fares (para 54); and
(g)  Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i) a satisfactory arrangement for the management
of industrial activities of SLCTB had been in
operation (para 39);
(ii)  consultants in the fields of procurement,
accounting and industrial engineering had
been appointed (para 49); and
(iii)  the form and substance of agreements between
the Government, SLCTB and RTBs satisfactory
to IDA had been furnished to the Association
(para 57).



IBRD 14654R
eo00 oo8o3                                                    SXo                              l30'                 JANUARY 19J
. -  ?    X                                              5~~~~~~~RI LANKA
te < ~~ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lca-s'  tion of Regional Transport
9'30                   )<                                       w< +                                                   Board (RTS) Heodquorters                  9-30'-
~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~           > ,                                  * ~~~~~~~ Locotion of Centrol Workshops
< ,,a,, A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Locaotion of Proviniciol Workshops:
50  2  t                        ,                     * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Existing
>  )                                            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bus Assernbly Pbont - SLrCTB
J          Pi   T   1  .     E   P    N'                             Reg---hionoi foudories
V ) , \ P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rovinciol Boundaries
Cf   {            <;;>             >       ,,,    <     .(itOMETfRS o~~~~~~~        ~~~~~ 10'    20  30  40    1
in      d       n  7<g\,,
Oc  e  a n                                            M  r 4e6cchiy. (,T                                       1 @rrohi
~~~~   nr3dOpc/5'             -.( V.
|  W    wn    >       ,                         R          C k i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- r .W1R  N   f 't
"d' dd..                                                                                                                  :S 
@t>ifEgi\\%J~1                                                                                                   -'    7-00'  \ @\ i   
,       -1,JtPr. ot L n f C.-.                  *        (           ?       o          > 
t - ,sS 5    -_   ~c H I N A             .                ,     ,,' (                                                .
NDIA   t6^IFD*                                                    QteYd-fttfhd3tvo
\  T        ii l-H3FLXND                                   V'~"                                                         Th rtlatsue  r 
/4w/ pA        j   ; G,    \g! t>                                                                                           do3er n3hrn tt prt o rh
~~~~~~ t)srs:   <  s                                                                         t<wepaporanvnuirrsenmt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fd    .
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      -        -l  -d-fYI 
s la0w41\\-    30-30                        slFoot                          8z 30t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.  th



