OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 994 CE
I)OCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Passenger Transport Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         gpiL      /d          , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 994 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, uated     fipkik    1b            , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (hereinafter
called SLCTB), SLCTB has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the Project;
(C) by letter addressed by the Association to the Borrower
on February 23, 1979, the Association granted an advance to the
Borrower totalling $165,000 for the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance the amount thereof
is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SLCTB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if.they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and SLCTB, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Sri Lanka Central
Transport Board pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Law" means the Transport Board Law Number 10 of 1978 of
the Borrower;
(d) "SLCTB" means the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
established under the Law;
(e) "RTB" means a Regional Transport Board established
under the Law;
(f) "industrial activities" means the procurement and
inventory management of goods and services, the operation of
facilities for the assembly of new vehicles, the manufacture and
reconditioning of spare-parts, units and sub-units, and the
complete overhaul of buses; and
(g) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty-three million dollars ($53,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled
on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by thd
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1990, and ending Janu-
ary 1, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the
Project, and shall cause the remainder of the Project to be
carried out by SLCTB, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause SLCTB to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SLCTB to perform such obligations.
Section 3.02 (a) In order to assist in carrying out Parts A,
B, C and E of the Project, the Borrower shall make available an
amount equivalent to fifty-two million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($52,800,000) of the proceeds of the Credit to SLCTB under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and SLCTB under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including those set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. With regard to Part D of the Project (a) the
Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the


﻿-5-
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part D of thq
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part D of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part D of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Part D of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the 'performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part D of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980,
furnish to the Association a statement of policy on the partici-
pation of the private sector in the transportation of passengers,
together with a timetable for the implementation of any necessary
measures.
Section 3.08. In order to eliminate operating losses of
the RTBs by the Borrower's fiscal year 1983, the Borrower agrees
to take or cause to be taken all necessary measures to progres-
sively reduce those operating losses in the intervening years, so
that revenues for each RTB in said fiscal year 1983 shall be
sufficient to meet the cost of RTB operations, administration,
maintenance, taxes, interest and depreciation.
For the purposes of this Section, "revenues" means the
receipts from passengers and other traffic, and from the disposal
of assets.
Section 3.09. In order to rationalize the RTB fare structure,
the Borrower shall, commencing January 1, 1981, arrange that each
RTB adjust the fare charges in accordance with guidelines issued
by SLCTB.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause SLCTB and the RTBs,
not to make, or to commit to, during the period ending Decem-
ber 31, 1982, any capital expenditures, outside those provided in
the Project, exceeding in any financial year the aggregate sum of
Rs50,000,000, except as the Association shall otherwise agree.


﻿-7-
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part D of the Project or any part thereof, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflect*ng
all expenditures for Part D of the Project on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) establish a separate account for
the purposes of Part D of the Project; (ii) have such accounts foV
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said
accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
3.11 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-8-
(a) SLCTB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SLCTB under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SLCTB will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of SLCTB or the RTBs to carry out the Project;
(d)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SLCTB or any RTB or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(e)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)
(i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of SLCTB have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed or
behalf of the Borrower and SLCTB;
(c) the form and substance of agreements between the Bor-
rower, SLCTB and the RTBs satisfactory to the Association for the
implementation of the Project and the provision of funds therefor,
have been furnished to the Association;
(d) arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, are in
force for the management of the industrial activities of SLCTB;
znd
(e) consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Association,
have been appointed to provide technical assistance in accounting,
procurement and industrial engineering.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SLCTB, and is legally binding upon SLCTB in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and SLCTB and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and SLCTB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date              I              is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the Ge"eral Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                           1232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By Ikj~. Ra.ro'Wdor&:f#e.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By S    Icht       A   Vi-e
/ #1st Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, machinery         50,000,000
tools, bus chassis,
materials and spare
parts:
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally
manufactured                             100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                   60% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(2) Technical Assistance          1,950,000        100%
(a) consultants'
services
(b) training
(3) Civil works for Part            150,000        90% of local
D of the Project                              expenditures
(4) Refunding of advance            165,000        100% of prin-
for preparation of                            cipal amount
Project                                       outstanding at
Effective Date
(5) Unallocated                     735,000
TOTAL        53,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Any unpaid charges refundable pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement shall be taken from Category (4) hereinabove.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credi%
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,400,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1980,
6.   Netwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the


﻿- 14 -
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for finan-
cing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve
road transportation of passengers, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Bus Unit Exchange and Overhaul Facilities
Improvement of facilities at the Central and Provincial
Workshops:
(1) to increase the output and to enhance the quality
of reconditioned units, sub-units and spare parts
of buses; and
(2) to overhaul buses.
Part B:   New Buses
Provision of chassis, materials and parts for about 2,100 new
buses, and the assembly thereof.
Part C:   Bus Maintenance and Operations
Improvements in the maintenance and operation of the RTB
bus fleet, including:
(1) Construction and equipping of about 20 new bus depots.
(2) Provision of equipment for existing depots.
(3) Provision of equipment for bus operations.
Part D:   Traffic Engineering Measures
Engineering measures to improve the flow of buses.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
Strengthening of SLCTB capabilities in production engineer-
ing, procurement, accounting, and management; and strengthening of
RTB capabilities in accounting, traffic operations and management.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between
the Borrower and SLCTB
I.   Parts A and E of the Project
Amount                           $8,200,000 equivalent
Repayment period           :     15 years
Grace period               :      3 years
Interest rate                    12.5% per annum
Foreign exchange risk            to be borne by the Borrower
To be repaid by            :     SLCTB
II. Parts B and C of the Project
Amount                     :     $44,600,000 equivalent
Repayment period           :     15 years
Grace period               :      3 years
Interest rate              :     12.5% per annum
Foreign exchange risk            to be borne by the Borrower
To be repaid by            :     RTB through SLCTB (dis-
charging debt of SLCTB
at end of Project)
(a) SLCTB to transfer to each RTB equipment and facilities
under the Project in accordance with provisions of
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b) Financing of the equipment and facilities provided
to each RTB under the Project is to be by way of loans
from the Borrower to each RTB under the above terms.


﻿- 17 -
(c) SLCTB to act as an agent of the Borrower in respect of
arrangements between the Borrower and each RTB under
which funds are provided to the RTB to pay SLCTB for the
equipment and facilities provided. SLCTB will maintain
on behalf of the Borrower records of the lending and
will debit the loan account of each RTB for the cost of
goods and services received by it under the Project with
interest thereon. SLCTB to collect payments of principal
and interest from each RTB and to pay such sums over to
the Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   1        day of
19SE                              EA
FOR SECRETARY


