DocuME~NTs CREDIT NUMBER 994 CE
Project Agreement
(Road Passenger Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD
Dated            ,ii    Jb          1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 994 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4tPA 11                 , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD (hereinafter
called SLCTB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty-three million dollars
($53,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but on condition that SLCTB agrees
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SLCTB, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SLCTB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS SLCTB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SLCTB shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist SLCTB in carrying out Parts
A, B, C and E of the Project, SLCTB shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SLCTB shall, in accordance with a timetable
and arrangements satisfactory to the Association, transfer to each
RTB such equipment and facilities provided or constructed under
the Project, as shall be agreed with the Association.
(b) Prior to such transfer, SLCTB shall ensure: (i) that the
respective RTB has concluded the agreement referred to in Section
5.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) that said
equipment and facilities are operating satisfactorily.
Section 2.05. SLCTB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SLCTB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) SLCTB undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SLCTB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SLCTB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) SLCTB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, training programs and work and
procurement schedules for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-3-
(b) SLCTB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B, C and E
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Parts A, B, C
and E of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accred-
ited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit'
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A, B, C
and E of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between SLCTB and the Association, SLCTB shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perfor-
mance by SLCTB and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under ?,he Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(d) SLCTB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SLCTB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.08. (a) SLCTB shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SLCTB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SLCTB of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SLCTB
Section 3.01. SLCTB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. SLCTB shall take all action as may be necessary
to adequately maintain the vehicles, workshops and all other
facilities for which it is responsible, to promptly make all
necessary repairs thereto in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and to maintain and renew, as and when needed, the
equipment required for this purpose and shall provide, as and when
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor.
Section 3.03. SLCTB shall:
(a) appoint by September 30, 1981 a task force with composi-
tion, staff and resources satisfactory to the Association respon-
sible for the formulation of a Corporate Plan for SLCTB and the
RTBs, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b) cause to be furnished by April 30, 1982 the Corporate
Plan to the Borrower for its review. The Borrower shall thereafter
discuss the Corporate Plan with the Association.
Section 3.04. SLCTB shall cause the RTBs to place limitations
on its services to reflect the availability of properly maintained
buses.
Section 3.05. SLCTB shall adopt by September 30, 1980,
guidelines satisfactory to the Association, designed to achieve
appropriate SLCTB and RTB staffing levels.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SLCTB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
SLCTB and each RTB.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. SLCTB shall: (i) have the accounts and finan-
cial statements of SLCTB and each RTB (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and'
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. SLCTB shall, by September 30, 1980 and by
September 30 of each year thereafter, furnish to the Borrower and
the Association financial and operational forecasts of SLCTB and
each RTB.
Section 4.04. SLCTB shall implement those measures referred
to in Sections 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10 of the Development Credit
Agreement for which SLCTB shall be responsible, in accordance
with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SLCTB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿-6-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SLCTB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SLCTB:
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
200, Kirula Road,
Colombo - 5
Sri Lanka


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
TRANSTORES                          1154
COLOMBO
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SLCTB may be taken or executed by
its chairman or such other person or persons as he shall designate'
in writing, and SLCTB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byly   ~a. 4          1    A
C.#nRegional Vice President
South Asia
SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD
//               Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower and SLCTB, each for the
respective Part or Parts of the Project for which it is respon-
sible, shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon
as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower and
SLCTB, each for the respective Part or Parts of the Project for
which it is responsible, shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods minufactured in
Sri Lanka if :he bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower or SLCTB, each
for the respective Part or Parts of the Project for
which it is responsible and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Sri Lanka equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 10 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f . bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials with values
estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 for each
contract, may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided that the aggregate expenditure for items so procured
shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Civil works under Part D of the Project may be carried
out either under force account, or by coutracts awarded under
the Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or SLCTB, each
for the respective Part or Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible shall furnish to the Association, fur its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower or SLCTB, each for the respective Part or Parts of the
Project for which it is responsible shall, before a final deci-
sion on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿- 11 -
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or SLCTB, each for the
respective Part or Parts of the Project for which it is respon-
sible and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or SLCTB, each for the respective Part or
Parts of the Project for which it is responsible, shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or SLCTB, each for the
respective Part or Parts of the Project for which it is respon-
sible, and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of che original price, the Borrower or SLCTB,
each for the Part or Parts of the Project for which it is respon-
sible, shall inform the Association of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The


﻿- 12 -
Association, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsis-
tent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform
the Borrower or SLCTB, each for the Part or Parts of the Project
for which it is responsible, and state the reasons for its deter-
mination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Accounts and Auditor's Reports
of SLCTB and each RTB
Fiscal Year Ending       Annual Accounts       Auditor's Report
June 14, 1978            June 30, 1980         December 31, 1980
December 31, 1978        September 30, 1980    March 31, 1981
December 31, 1979        March 31, 1981        September 30, 1981
December 31, 1980        December 31, 1981     May 31, 1982
December 31, 1981        September 30, 1982    January 31, 1983
December 31, 1982        September 30, 1983    December 31, 1983
December 31, 1983        June 30, 1984         September 30, 1984
Thereafter all accounts and reports shall be furnished not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have siged this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of 1       ,
19FR S.
FOR SECRETARY


