                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00003227



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-52190)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION
                        (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                     FOR AN

               EMERGENCY AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT


                                February 20, 2014




Agriculture Global Practice
Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective January 20, 2015)

                                         Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu
                                               1.00 = US$ 0.058
                                            US$ 1.00 = MDL 17.28

                           RECIPIENT’S FISCAL YEAR January 1 – December 31
                                    FISCAL YEAR July 1 – June 30

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACSA      Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture
AIPA      Agency for Interventions and Payments in Agriculture
CAPMU     Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCRMP     Disaster and Climate Risk Management Project
GPS       Global Positioning System
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FM        Financial Management
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IA        Impact Assessment
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMS       Integrated Management System
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
LSCs      Local Special Commissions
MACP      Moldova Agriculture Competitiveness Project
MAFI      Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MDL       Moldovan Leu
[M]EASP   [Moldova] Emergency Agriculture Support Project
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NBS       National Bureau of Statistics
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
OP/BP     World Bank Operational Policy/Bank Procedures
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDI       Project Development Indicator
PDO       Project Development Objective
POM/OM    Project Operational Manual
RISP      Rural Investment and Services Project
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SMEs      Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
TA        Technical Assistance
TORs      Terms of Reference
TTL       Task Team Leader
USD       United States Dollar

                                          Vice President: Laura Tuck
                                       Country Director: Qimiao Fan
                                       Practice Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
                                       Country Manager: Alexander Kremer
                                    Project Team Leader: Anatol Gobjila
                                    ICR Primary Author: Jeren Kabayeva
                                                MOLDOVA
                                     Emergency Agriculture Support Project



                                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i 
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i 
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i 
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii 
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii 
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii 
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v 
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v 
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi 
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14 
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19 
  Annex 3. Economic Analysis........................................................................................ 21 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24 
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25 
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36 
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38 
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39 
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Emergency Agriculture
Country:                Moldova                 Project Name:
                                                                          Support Project
Project ID:             P143202                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-52190
ICR Date:               01/21/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 6.50M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 4.86M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 5.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/28/2012     Effectiveness:             04/15/2013       07/30/2013
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):                           03/20/2014
Approval:             03/19/2013     Mid-term Review:           05/01/2014       04/05/2014
                                     Closing:                   09/01/2014       09/01/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                      1                   1
Crops                                                                 46                  46
Other social services                                                 46                  46
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               7                   7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                               52                  52
Social safety nets                                                    48                  48

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                           Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                           Qimiao Fan
Practice Manager:          Dina Umali-Deininger                 Dina Umali-Deininger
Project Team Leader:       Anatol Gobjila                       Anatol Gobjila
ICR Team Leader:           Anatol Gobjila
ICR Primary Author:        Jeren Kabayeva


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to mitigate the negative effects of the
2012 drought by helping restore corn and wheat production and prevent livestock
destocking in the most affected districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage change over the 2009-11 average national production of wheat
Value
quantitative or   -39%                       -20%                                +33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percentage change over the 2009-11 average national production of corn
Value
quantitative or   -61%                       -20%                                +6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Percentage change over the 2009-11 average number of pigs, chicken, and cattle
Value             Pigs: -34%;              Pigs: -31%;                      Pigs: +60%;
quantitative or   Chickens: -19%;          Chickens: -17%;                  Chickens: +6%;
Qualitative)      Cattle: -18%             Cattle: -16%                     Cattle: -14%
Date achieved     03/01/2013               09/01/2014                        09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percentage)
Value                                        22,000 out of
                                                                               60,085 out of which
quantitative or   0                          which at least 15%
                                                                               39% female
Qualitative)                                 female
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                        09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Area planted with corn in 2013 in 31 selected districts in plots larger than 0.5 ha
Value             300,000 ha in 31 districts 80%                                 183,272 ha (or

                                                  iii
(quantitative     (2009-11 average)                                              76%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved partially at 76%.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Area planted with wheat in 2013 in 15 selected districts in plots larger than 1 ha
Value
                  110,000 ha in 15 districts                                     132,347 ha (or
(quantitative                                80%
                  (2009-11 average)                                              120%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Share of small farmers of the total project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0                          70%                                 98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Amount of cash transfers
Value
                                                                                 US$6.7 million
(quantitative     0                          US$9 million
                                                                                 (due to savings)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014          03/20/2014      09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target partially achieved (US$2.3 million was cancelled through restructuring).
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of awareness workshops
Value
(quantitative     0                          830                                 841
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Grievance mechanism established and working
Value
(quantitative     0                          1                                   1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                          09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Days of training provided
Value             0                         35                                   35

                                                   iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                         09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of broadcasting events
Value
(quantitative     0                          120                                149
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                         09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded before project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Completion of the small scale corn silage feasibility study
Value
(quantitative     0                          1                                  1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2013                 09/01/2014                         09/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved before project completion.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     09/25/2013           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/31/2014       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      7.25
  3     09/01/2014           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      7.48


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     1. To cancel the amount of
                                                     US$2.3 million equivalent from
                                                     the IDA Credit on account of
                                                     savings as requested by the
 03/20/2014               S       S           7.10
                                                     Borrower on Feb 4, 2014;
                                                     2. To re-allocate US$177,000
                                                     from Category 1 (Cash Grants)
                                                     to Category 2 (Goods, non-

                                                   v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     consulting services, consulting
                                                     services, training, incremental
                                                     operation costs), as requested by
                                                     the Borrower on March 12,
                                                     2014.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In spite of a strong recovery in 2010 and 2011 from the global economic crisis,
Moldova’s economy declined in 2012. Weak external demand and a marked decline in
agricultural production in 2012 led to a recession. This was partially due to escalating sovereign
debt and banking crises in the Euro zone, but the main cause of the recession was the summer
drought of 2012 that severely hit agriculture. As a result, real GDP dropped by 0.8 percent in
2012 compared with a 6.4 percent growth in 2011, and the agricultural value added declined by
23 percent in 20121.

2.       Further, continuous political tensions in the country were taking a toll on economic
growth and social progress. The President was elected on March 16, 2012. However the country
faced a period of political stalemate and uncertainty. There were differing views in society on the
appropriate direction, pace and depth of reforms not only between the majority and the opposition,
but also within the ruling coalition. Political disagreements, as well as corruption allegations, led
to the resignation of the Government after a no-confidence vote in March 2013. In May 2013, the
Parliament elected a new Prime Minister who formed a government based on the votes of the
ruling coalition.

The Agricultural Sector

3.       The sector remained important, contributing 12 percent of GDP and representing
about 50 percent of total exports (when combined with the agro-food sector)2. Agriculture
also provided employment to 28 percent of the population, of which 40 percent were categorized
as poor. On the other hand, livestock production, whose population estimated to be over 1.53
million heads3, contributed greatly towards food sufficiency. Besides generating food, exports
and employment, agriculture provided raw materials for the industrial sector. Although
agriculture remained a mainstay of the economy, agricultural output was volatile and low market
competitiveness was a key bottleneck. High volatility in crop output was caused by acute
vulnerability to climate hazards like droughts, floods, frosts, and severe storms. Competitiveness,
in its turn, was challenged by a number of factors, including distortions and imperfections in
agriculture input and output markets, poor access to finance, deteriorated infrastructure, and an
underdeveloped land market.

The 2012 Drought

4.      The country’s agricultural sector faced unprecedented hot weather and a continued
lack of precipitation in 2011-12. The drought started in the fall of 2011, and dry weather was
observed during the winter of 2011-12. Catastrophic drought conditions continued to prevail in
spring and summer of 2012 throughout the country but most severely in the central and, above all,
the southern part of Moldova. The precarious weather caused significant damage to the
agriculture sector, as its value added declined by 23 percent in 2012, and the corn and grain



1
  Moldova Country Program Snapshot, World Bank, April 2013
2
  Emergency Project Paper for the EASP, World Bank, Report No: 73722-MD
3
  National Bureau of Statistics of Moldova (NBS)


                                                 1
harvests more than halved. The most vulnerable crops were corn and wheat due to water and
temperature stress. The value of the losses for these crops alone was estimated at around US$78
million, which was 9.5 percent of agricultural GDP. Since pastures are scarce in Moldova, and
corn is the main animal feed, there was a particular threat of animal destocking. The experience
of the 2007 drought, when corn production dropped by 70 percent and wheat production by 44
percent, showed that the impact on grain fed animals could be so severe that it would take 3-4
years to recover to pre-drought trends4.

5.       The Bank promptly responded to the devastating drought situation in Moldova with
the Emergency Agriculture Support Project. There was a profound concern that if nothing was
done immediately to assist farmers, the livestock sub-sector would be under significant risk for
destocking and loss of capital with potential long-term negative consequences (similar to 2007).
The project was therefore put in place as a means to avoid a potentially injurious “erosive coping”
response by farmers, due to the potentially high impact on people’s food and livelihood security
caused by the hazard, especially at times of political uncertainty in the country. The IDA Credit
was designed to provide fast disbursing support through extending conditional cash transfers and
technical assistance (awareness and training) to farmers in the most affected districts to maintain
their ability to plant spring crops, including corn and wheat. The Project was consistent with the
World Bank-IFC 2009-2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Moldova, which focused on
three main pillars: (i) improving economic competitiveness; (ii) minimizing social and
environmental risks, building human capital, and promoting social inclusion; and (iii) improving
public sector governance.

6.       The project was part of an overall national support program of approximately
US$13.5 million aiming to address the emergency situation, reduce the risk of escalation,
and facilitate recovery from the drought. In December 2012, the EU provided a budget support
grant of EUR3.15 million, which was subsequently channeled through the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry (MAFI) for cash transfers to affected farmers to incentivize winter wheat
planting and for provision of fodder. However, these incentives were only partially covered with
the proceeds from the EU grant, and the remaining needs were expected to be financed by the
proposed project. The EASP was to contribute US$9 million to support farmers to plant winter
wheat and corn, and help maintain household cattle stocks.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.       The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to mitigate the negative effects of the
2012 drought by helping restore corn and wheat production and prevent livestock destocking in
the most affected districts. To achieve the above objective, the project sought to support the
Government’s priorities to address the emergency situation, reduce the risk of escalation, and
facilitate recovery from the drought. The project contributed cash and technical assistance
(awareness and training) to the farmers in the districts that had been mostly affected by the 2012
drought so as to maintain investments to plant corn and wheat. Corn plays a key role as animal
fodder, and its scarcity threatened animal destocking. In addition, the project developed a
feasibility study on testing new approaches for animal nutrition under conditions of weather stress,




4
  In 2007, affected farmers did not receive cash support, and the ensuing declines in animal capital can be
attributed to a lack of major support intervention (no-project scenario).



                                                     2
i.e. new silage techniques. The short-term emergency objective of the proposed project
complemented longer-term objectives of existing operations that are supporting adaptation to
climate change in agriculture and disaster preparedness.

8.       The PDO was to be achieved by providing a cash compensation and training to affected
farmers as an incentive to plant new crops to accelerate recovery from the drought and to reduce
the risk of escalation of losses. It was expected that restored production would increase farmers’
capacity to feed their animals and thus reduce the risk of destocking.

9.      The project’s key outcome indicators were: (i) recovery of at least 80 percent of the pre-
drought corn and wheat production; (ii) prevention of livestock destocking; (iii) provision of
support to a significant share of affected farmers (disaggregated by gender).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

11.     The primary target group of beneficiaries was farmers in the districts most affected by the
2012 drought who suffered significant losses in 2012, and who invested for wheat and will invest
for corn in new crops in the 2013 planting campaign.

12.      To ensure balanced fairness (higher compensation for higher losses) and implementation
simplicity, project benefits were targeted based on the following criteria: (i) farmers from the
most affected districts, i.e. districts where losses of the specific crop were higher than 35 percent;
(ii) farmers in those districts would be compensated ex-post on the basis of the area that they
actually planted in autumn of 2012 for wheat, and for the area they actually planted for corn in
2013; (iii) eligible beneficiaries should plant a minimum area of 1.0 ha for wheat, and 0.5 ha for
corn in contiguous plots; and (iv) eligible beneficiaries should be registered farmers with formal
access to arable land, either in the form of ownership or formal lease. The rationale of the 35
percent limit5 was to avoid the use of scarce public resources in areas where the drought impact
had been moderate, and hence could be considered as a normal annual fluctuation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.    The project included the following three components: (i) Cash Transfers to Affected
Farmers, (ii) Training and Awareness, and (iii) Project Management.

14.     Component 1: Cash Transfers to Affected Farmers (US9.0 million). This component
aimed to finance cash transfers to corn and wheat farmers in the most affected districts of the
country to compensate a share of the losses that farmers suffered during the 2012 season. The
cash transfers were to be disbursed only after eligible famers will have planted these two crops so
as to provide an incentive for planting. It was expected that the increased production would
contribute to mitigating the risk of animal destocking.



5
 This limit was lowered to 30 percent through a restructuring on March 20, 2014 following the
Government’s request received on February 6, 2014.


                                                   3
15.     Component 2: Training and Awareness (US$0.35). The objective of this component was
to publicly disseminate information on the cash transfer program in order to avoid elite capture
and create sufficient incentives for affected farmers to plant crop and wheat. The component also
sought to provide for the establishment of a redress grievance mechanism and training on animal
feeding, and to carry out a feasibility study on small-scale corn silage production.

16.     Component 3: Project Management (US$0.65). This component aimed to support costs
associated with project implementation, including operational and costs for fiduciary specialists,
component coordination, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) support to the MAFI,
specifically, its Agency for Interventions and Payments in Agriculture (AIPA) and the
Consolidated Agriculture Project Management Unit6 (CAPMU).

1.6 Revised Components

17.     The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.      In March 2014, the project was restructured to: (i) cancel the amount of US$2.3 million
equivalent from the IDA Credit No.5219-MD on account of savings, as requested by the
Borrower on February 4, 2014; (ii) to reallocate US$177,000 from Category 1 (Cash Grants) to
Category 2 (Goods, non-consulting services, consulting services, training, incremental operation
costs), as requested by the Borrower on March 12, 2014; and (iii) to amend the project’s
provisions on the eligibility of districts for wheat compensations, to allow for the eligibility of
districts where losses were more than 30% (compared to the initial eligibility of 35%), as
requested by the Borrower on February 6, 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.      The preparation of the project was initiated in late December 2012 and it was
expediently delivered to the Board, backed by strong support from headquarters and
country office management. Due to accelerated procedures for project processing as per OP/BP
8.0, negotiations for the IDA Credit were completed on February 19, 2013 and Board approval
was obtained on March 19, 2013. However, the project was prepared during high political
uncertainty (see para 2), and faced unfortunate delays in obtaining effectiveness as there was no
formal Government in place to sign the Credit Agreement with the Bank in the spring of 2013. In
addition, there was a problem (beyond the team’s control) with the opening of the project’s
designated account that was caused by an ineligibility of Banca de Economii (the Government’s
treasury accounts operator) to provide services to World Bank-financed projects. To the team’s
credit, the issue was resolved within two months following the project’s effectiveness.

20.    The project primarily focused on supporting corn and wheat production through a
cash transfer program for the affected corn and wheat producers. This was due to
importance of corn and wheat in household consumption, and most essentially, given the


6
  CAPMU was established in 1999 through Government Decision 878and has more than ten years of
experience in providing fiduciary support in the implementation of Bank-financed projects in the rural
sector in Moldova


                                                  4
importance of corn for animal feed (because of country’s scarce pastures), both in the form of
grain and silage. Further, the project incorporated most suitable approaches for implementation.
The decision was made to compensate the most affected farmers with cash transfers rather than
with inputs out of the following considerations: (i) in the past there were negative experiences in
procurement and misuse of seeds which turned out to be of poor quality or not suitable for to the
specific local conditions; (ii) cash transfers were expected to allow faster implementation by
avoiding the need to procure inputs; and (iii) cash transfers would maximize individual choice
and ownership while minimizing market distortions.

21.      Further, the project design took into account potential poverty implications for the
country’s agricultural sector that was associated with households in chronic poverty. A
strategic choice was made in establishing its targeting approach; selection criteria focused on
groups of population that were particularly vulnerable to the risk of animal destocking. The
central and southern regions of Moldova were the most affected by the 2012 drought, and were
also the regions in which the less well-off were more likely to be involved in activities that were
directly or indirectly affected by corn production. According to the household budget survey that
was available at appraisal, 61 percent and 80 percent of the agricultural activity of those in the
bottom 3 deciles, in the central and southern regions respectively, were related to livestock (meat,
cheese and milk, and other related products).

22.      Although the project was designed as a one-year (short-term) operation, it included
a few activities to create a more sustainable system to deal with droughts in future. The
Bank recognized the importance of technical assistance to farmers to enhance their knowledge
about animal nutrition needs and coping strategies for feeding livestock and poultry during years
of climatic distress. In addition, the project envisaged preparation of a feasibility study on small-
scale silage that, among other things, was expected to look into adaptive research on piloting
methodological and technical approaches to small-scale silage in at least two private farms.

23.      The assessment of the potential drought affected area provided by the Ministry of
Agriculture to the Bank at appraisal was underestimated. Given the unusual circumstances
leading to the emergency project, the Bank team was only given a few weeks to design the
project. This time was insufficient to perform a thorough analysis of the acreage/hectare affected.
The team consulted with the MAFI to assess the impact from the crisis and apprise a potential
number of beneficiaries. However, the Ministry itself struggled to produce reliable data on: (i)
corn producers, and (ii) ha of land owned/rented by those producers. The Ministry eventually
provided figures that were later proven as underestimated. As background, it may be noted that
there is a systemic problem of reliable data at the MAFI due to lack of capacity and shortage of
staff.

24.     The project was prepared in parallel with the similar EU-funded drought relief
program developed by the Government. The team made an effort to learn from the program’s
experience by including the following in the project design: (i) a target mechanism to reduce elite
capture by developing a better list of beneficiaries; (ii) corn, i.e. the crop that suffered the most in
2012 and allowed to reach a greater number of small farmers; (iii) and the information campaign
and grievance mechanism to increase transparency and social accountability.

25.     Risk Assessment. Overall project risk was rated Substantial at appraisal. In retrospect,
while this rating correctly gauged the challenges as related to the volatile political situation, the
absence of the Government to sign a Credit Agreement with the Bank to expedite the
effectiveness of the project could not have been anticipated at appraisal. Initial mitigation
response measures foreseen to deal with the new main counterparts (as a result of political


                                                   5
instability) in project design were to engage with all stakeholders, including operational staff of
MAFI who were non-political appointees. The risks related to institutional weaknesses, which
would lead to delays in disbursement of funds did not materialize during project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

26.     Commendably, compensation payments to the first 60,000 beneficiaries were
disbursed within a record time, i.e. two weeks, in spite of initial delays. This achievement was
due to a management system that AIPA7 developed for the project, which allowed for a rapid
targeted disbursement, as well as the highly efficient operation of Posta Moldovei offices. Along
with this effort, high levels of awareness about the compensation programs, achieved through a
speedy and comprehensive information campaign carried out by ACSA8 (with the support of
AIPA and MAFI) played a major role in delivering such good numbers. Cash transfers were
defrayed to farmers for the losses incurred in 2012 to 31 (out of 34 rayons) for corn and to 18
rayons (out of 34) for wheat. The former included the three additional rayons of Aneni Noi,
Rezina and Taraclia, which were added to the cash transfer program in March 2014 based on
additional evidence of sustained losses.

27.      Compensations arrived after wheat and corn were planted in the 2013 agricultural
season. Due to a substantial delay in the project’s start, compensations for affected farmers
arrived in October-November of 2013, i.e. well after the planting period for corn being planted in
the spring of 2013. However, thanks to early Government announcements and ACSA’s
proactivity in carrying out the communication campaign ahead of project effectiveness (for which
it was retroactively compensated), the farmers were aware of the forthcoming compensation
program in advance and were able to plan accordingly and make economic decisions on the
allocation of resources during the 2013 agricultural season before planting started.

28.     The project successfully supported the implementation of a comprehensive
grievance redress mechanism. This was a first experience in Moldova with the introduction of a
grievance redress mechanism in Government-supported projects which provide monetary
compensations. The grievance mechanism was implemented by ACSA, providing a completely
impartial perspective on the cases at hand, independent of the MAFI and AIPA. The efficiency of
the mass communication campaign events mentioned above can be judged by the small number
of grievances received (which is around 500 or 0.8% of the actual beneficiaries). Of these, only
15 complaints warranted a review based on merits of the cases.

29.     The project provided compensations to a total of 60,085 farmers, which was three
times the initial target of 22,000. While it is admirable that the project covered an impressive
number of affected farmers, the significant difference between the initial estimate and final
achievements raises the question over the quality of data collected at appraisal. As described in
paragraph 23, the preparation time was short, the project team had to rely on the statistics
provided by the MAFI (not official statistics) to assess and identify potential damage. Unreliable
data affected the Bank’s ability to adequately estimate vulnerable individuals, and hence the
number of potential beneficiaries could not be correctly estimated.


7
  AIPA is institutionally subordinated to MAFI, and is modeled after payment agencies present in EU
countries. It has received significant institutional and human capacity strengthening support under the
Bank-financed Moldova Rural Investment and Support Project II.
8
  The Rural Development Agency (ACSA) is well established nation-wide NGO network that has extensive
experience in providing extension and advisory services to the country’s farmers.


                                                  6
30.      At the same time, the amount disbursed for compensations was lower than
anticipated. Only US$6.7 million were disbursed out US$9 million allocated for cash transfers.
As a result an amount equivalent to US$2.3 million was cancelled from the project. The fact that
the number of actual beneficiaries was triple the estimate, while the amount of total
compensations paid was smaller than anticipated, can be explained by the methodology for
calculating compensations, which was done on a per hectare basis and not per beneficiary. It was
initially estimated that a total area of 322,000 ha would be planted with corn and eligible for
compensation, but the actual area was only 183,272 ha. Despite the Government’s efforts to
incentivize planting of corn, a considerable number of farmers opted not to plant it for various
economic reasons. MAFI could have increased the amount of compensation per hectare to
achieve full disbursement, however, this option was not considered feasible nor desirable.

31.     Since priority was given to a quick disbursement of funds, some internal control
procedures were implemented with minor shortcomings. Based on the findings of the
project’s operational review carried out by the independent consultant, a few minor discrepancies
were identified in the implementation of the internal control system. Specifically, no verification
of accuracy in beneficiaries’ lists was conducted by both AIPA and Posta Moldovei (full reliance
on local commissions for beneficiary lists). In addition, there was an inconsistency between the
PAD, Operational Manual (OP) and the MAFI decree which regulated the grants delivery to
farmers. According to the OP, AIPA was in charge of “documentary and field controls, additional
controls and post-payment checks,” but the MAFI Decree only stated that “AIPA has to collect
and submit the consolidated lists to the Central Ministerial Commission.”

32.      Despite the above-mentioned shortcomings, AIPA is believed to have emerged as a
stronger institution. Realizing that the cash-transfer program was of a large scope to be
implemented within the shortest period of time, the project provided significant support through
provision of consultants and procurement of IT systems. Among other things, AIPA received 15
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices and computer equipment, which helped the
organization establish an efficient online communication and knowledge transfer mechanism for
employees of regional offices. In addition, the project provided E-learning consultancy services
for the design and adjustment of the AIPA’s Integrated Management System (IMS). The need for
this TA was derived from the integration of this IMS with other national databases, including
state tax service, land registration, animal register, etc. It also improved management of internal
documentation, electronic handling and archiving of documents.

33.      The Government (both at national and regional level) and Implementing Agencies
performed commendable work with a few deficiencies to be noted for future similar
operations. Overall coordination and technical responsibility for the project rested with the
MAFI. Implementation was effectively carried out by AIPA and ACSA, and fiduciary functions
were flawlessly carried out by CAPMU9. ACSA commenced an extensive awareness campaign
prior to the project’s effectiveness using its own funds. This allowed the Government to announce
about the compensation program ahead of project’s start. Further, the project was positively
affected by involving decentralized governance. Local Special Commissions (LSCs) were formed
in every village that comprised a mayor of the locality, secretary of the local council, cadaster
engineers, and representative of the local farmer community. While LSCs properly followed


9
  CAPMU was established in 1999 through Government Decision 878and has more than ten years of
experience in providing fiduciary support in the implementation of Bank-financed projects in the rural
sector in Moldova


                                                  7
guidelines of consolidating the lists of beneficiaries, these lists were not supported with any
confirmation documents whether the land was owned or leased. Further, the LSCs carried out
verification in the field, but such verification did not prove the ownership of land.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.      Design (Moderately Satisfactory): Overall the M&E design was kept simple and
focused on measuring project performance indicators as identified in the project’s Results
Framework. The only shortcomings were noted in estimating target values for key performance
indicators such as “number of direct beneficiaries,” and “area planted with corn in 2013.” As
mentioned in para 23, the preparation of the operation did not leave much time to establish more
precise baseline indicators, and the M&E efforts were therefore based solely on data sources of
the MAFI. In its turn, the MAFI recognized the weakness in maintaining a proper database due to
lack of staff and technical resources. Going forward, MAFI is making strides to improve its data
recording and farm registry systems in order to enhance its capacity to handle similar crisis
situations in future.

35.     Implementation (Satisfactory): The project unit was able to track and report regularly
the evolution of output indicators. AIPA and ACSA were in charge of data collection and
monitoring of results and provided quarterly progress reports to CAPMU on Component 1 and 2
respectively. Progress reports provided by project implementing agencies were reviewed and
consolidated by CAPMU in its semi-annual progress reports. The project funded preparation of
the Operational Review of the Cash Transfer Program and Impact Assessment. However, both
reports were prepared by the independent consulting company and submitted to CAPMU and
Bank shortly before the end of the project, not leaving enough time for feedback from
stakeholders.

36.     Utilization (Unsatisfactory): The project progress reports were comprehensive and
provided a good level of detail on the implementation variables of the project. However, the
quality of the final Impact Assessment report made it less relevant in informing the debate on the
project’s net impact.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.      Safeguards: The project was a Category C project as project activities were not expected
to cause any significant environmental and social impacts. But it is still worth mentioning a
rigorous grievance mechanism that was established by ACSA. This was the first experience with
the introduction of a grievance mechanism in Government-supported programs in the country,
which provide monetary compensations. It put in place a “safety valve” for unsatisfied farmers,
created a disincentive for potential fraud. It also disciplined local and central authorities in charge
of implementation of the program as all involved personnel were aware that there was an
alternative mechanism for channeling grievances by farmers. The grievance mechanism was also
implemented by ACSA providing an impartial perspective on the cases at hand, independent of
MAFI and AIPA.

38.     Procurement: On procurement matters, CAPMU, a very experienced PMU, provided
very solid support which resulted in quick completion of the project’s packages. The final review
of the project confirmed that the Procurement Plan developed during preparation and updated
during implementation was adequate. It was also found that the filing of procurement documents
was good and allowed procurement to be easily tracked.



                                                  8
39.      Financial Management: The biggest fiduciary load in the project was related to
financial management issues due to a multi-million dollar compensation program for the benefit
of thousands of potential beneficiaries. At appraisal, the overall fiduciary risk was assessed as
substantial since there was a need to disburse significant amounts in a short period of time that
may have led to delays and/or fund mismanagement. Nevertheless, the project was at all times in
compliance with legal FM covenants, as attested in a comprehensive FM review carried out by
the World Bank in April 2014. The FM arrangements established within CAPMU and AIPA were
assessed as satisfactory. The two agencies properly applied internal control procedures, properly
kept accounting records in integrated accounting software, and employed qualified accounting
staff. The final audit report was qualified as clean.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.      The severity and frequency of extreme events have increased over time in the country
(e.g. droughts of 2007 and 2012 and heavy flooding in 2008 and 2010), and are predicted to
continue growing. As climate change exacerbates the stress on natural capital through more
frequent and intense extreme weather events, adaptation and capacity building measures have
become of a high priority. The project was, in a way, a pilot program to test the Government’s
ability and capacity to address the emergency situation, reduce the risk of escalation, and
facilitate recovery from the natural disaster. Further, and Additional Financing is currently being
processed under the Moldova Agriculture Competiveness Project, and the positive experience of
the EASP payment system will be adopted for it.

41.      The project pursued a short-term objective to support the drought affected population and
avoid erosive coping, through applying emergency mechanisms to ensure the quick distribution
of cash transfers for restoring corn and wheat production, and preventing livestock destocking.
More sustainable, longer-term recovery mechanisms are currently being established with the
support of two ongoing Bank-funded projects, i.e.: (i) the Disaster and Climate Risk Management
(DCRM) Project approved on August 5, 2010; and (ii) the Moldova Agriculture Competitiveness
(MAC) Project approved on May 1, 2012. The DCRM Project aims to strengthen the country’s
ability to forecast, prepare for, and respond to severe weather and natural disasters. The MAC
Project aims to enhance the competitiveness of the country’s agro-food sector by, among others,
mainstreaming agro-environmental and sustainable land management practices. Such practices
are an essential element to help farmers adapt to a changing climate and for the sector to become
more resilient to climatic variations.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation: Substantial

42.      The project objective and design were consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership
Strategy. The CPS for 2009-2012 had the “Stability in a World of Economic Shocks” and
“Climate Change and Eco-Disasters” as main themes. The project was also developed in response
to the Government’s request for donor support to enhance production of corn and wheat by
delivering critical inputs and advisory services. Based on previous experience of droughts in
Moldova (most notably in 2007), there were concerns that if nothing was done immediately to
assist the farmers with producing animal feed, the livestock sub-sector would be under risk for
destocking and loss of capital, with potential long-term economic and social consequences. In this
respect, the project’s design and objectives were relevant.



                                                9
43.      The project was also relevant to current Government policies and Bank CPS FY14-17.
The National Development Strategy Moldova 2020 prioritizes state interventions to deliver the
overarching goal of bringing about qualitative economic development and poverty reduction. It
also includes a set of measures to reduce inequality and address key crosscutting themes, such as
social inclusion and gender equality, environmental preservation, climate change and disaster
events. The project addressed two of three pillars of the current CPS – Enhancing Human Capital
and Minimizing Social Risks; and Promoting a Green, Clean and Resilient Moldova.

44.      The appraisal was correct in focusing on the needs for getting production of wheat and
corn back to normal as quickly as possible. Cash transfers were rightly considered as most
important means to address the short-term production problems. The only drawback was that the
late start of the project with compensation payments arriving in July-August of 2013, i.e. well
after the planting period. In that sense the project had a delayed impact on farm finances.

45.     The emergency nature of the project contributed to increased capacity of the Government
to cope with the drought situation and reduce the severity of its impact on human welfare. Finally,
the design of the project was also relevant, mainly because its simplicity allowed fast
implementation as soon as the project became effective. The project supported government-run
emergency mechanisms to ensure the short-term and cost-efficient distribution of cash transfers.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives: Substantial

46.     The project was part of a country-wide program to respond to the crisis10 with EU and
Government funds covering 54 percent of the country’s planted wheat area, while the remaining
planted corn and wheat areas were expected to be covered by the project. To this end, the project
was successful as part of the Government’s drought relief and recovery program, and ensured
adequate wheat and corn production, which recorded a significantly increased harvest in the
agricultural seasons of 2013-2014. In the last two years the country has seen record harvests of
wheat, a level of corn production comparable to the pre-drought years, and a fairly vibrant
livestock sector. The project objectives were achieved despite delays associated with the
effectiveness of the project and designated account. Overall, the program played its role in
mitigating the negative effects of the catastrophic drought of 2012 on the production of corn and
wheat and prevention of animal destocking.

47.     The PDO rating is Satisfactory based on achievement of all 4 outcome indicators
(including sub-indicators), indicating a strong efficacy of the project. Only 2 intermediate results
indicators (out of nine) were not achieved fully, but their relative importance was small, and
targets were overestimated to begin with due to the demand-based nature of the project
interventions.

48.     The project played a key role in supporting wheat and corn farmers. Thus, cash transfers
were defrayed to farmers to: (i) for 31 (out of 34) rayons; and (ii) for wheat – 18 (out of 34)
rayons. The former includes the three additional rayons of Anenii Noi, Rezina and Taraclia,
which were added to the cash transfer program in March 2014, based on additional evidence of




10   Hence, the focus of the project’s intermediate outcome indicators on national-level output data.




                                                             10
sustained losses. The total area for which compensations were paid was 315,619 hectares. In
terms of geographical distribution, the South region, as most affected, accessed about 39% of the
disbursement, the largest compared to other regions.

49.     The final tally indicates that the project provided compensations for planting of wheat
and corn in the 2013 agricultural season to 60,085 distinctive farmers (2,285 were paid to
companies11, and 57,800 to individuals) in an amount of US$6.5 million. Thirty nine percent of
the recipients were women. As for individual beneficiaries (physical entities), 86.1% of total
compensations were paid to micro beneficiaries with land planted with wheat/corn of no more
than 10 ha. In case of companies, the result was opposite. The large and medium-sized companies
accounted for about 80% of disbursed compensations.

50.     All other project activities were also successfully completed, i.e.: (i) a vast information
and awareness campaign about the cash transfer program; (ii) a grievance mechanism associated
with the cash transfer program; (iii) a body of work, including a feasibility study on testing new
approaches for animal nutrition under conditions of weather stress, i.e. new silage techniques, and
(iv) a body of work related to the strengthening AIPA’s capacity for managing the
implementation of large and complex compensation programs.

51.      Nevertheless, it is important to acknowledge that the attribution of the results to the
project has to be qualified in the context of other exogenous factors which contributed to record
harvests of wheat and corn, and to the restocking of pigs, chicken and cattle in 2013-2014. While
the project played its role in delivering impressive results, major credit should be attributed to
extremely favorable climatic conditions during the 2013-2014 agricultural seasons. A precise
attribution model would have required some form of control/treatment comparisons, based on
random sampling, which was not feasible in this case (all eligible farmers received support). An
attempt to deal with the attribution dilemma is made in the economic analysis through an
attempted simulation of “with” and “without” project scenarios based on the impact of a similarly
severe drought (2007) on animal destocking. Even minimal (5%) attribution of the estimated
benefits to the project indicates a robust rate of return and NPV.

52.     A Table 1 summarizes progress against the PDO indicators and intermediate outcome
indicators, respectively. In many cases, the project performed above targets.

                           Table 1: Achievement of Key PDO Indicators

Indicator Name                               Unit of      Baseline         Target        Actual
                                             Measure
PDO Indicators
Percentage change over the 2009-11           Percentage   -39%             -20%          +33%
average national production of wheat
Percentage change over the 2009-11           Percentage   -61%             -20%          +6%
average national production of corn
Percentage change over the 2009-11           Percentage   Pigs -34%        Pigs -31%     Pigs +60%
average number of pigs, chicken and cattle                Chickens -19%    Chickens -    Chickens +6%
                                                          Cattle -18%      17%           Cattle -14%
                                                                           Cattle -16%
Direct project beneficiaries (number), of    Percentage                    22,000 out    60,085 out of


11
  SME beneficiaries by size: Small (<120 ha of planted corn/wheat), Medium (120-600 ha of planted
corn/wheat), and Large (>600 ha of planted corn/wheat)


                                                  11
which female (percentage)                                                     of which at   which 39%
                                                                              least 15%     female
                                                                              female
Intermediate Results Indicators
Area planted with corn in 2013 in 31             Percentage   300,000 ha in   80%           183,272 ha
selected districts in plots larger than 0.5 ha   change       31 districts                  (or 76%)
                                                              (2009-11 ave)
Area planted with wheat in 2013 in 15            Percentage   110,000 ha in   80%           132,347 ha
selected districts in lots larger than 1 ha      change       15 districts                  (or 120%)
                                                              (2009-11 ave)
Share of small farmers of the total project      Percentage   0               70%           98%
beneficiaries
Amount of cash transfers                         Amt (US$)    0               US$9 mln      US$6.7 mln
Number of awareness workshops                    Number       0               830           841
Grievance mechanism established and              Text         0               1             1
working
Day of training provided                         Number       0               35            35
Number of broadcasting events                    Number       0               120           149
Completion of the small scale corn silage        Text         0               1             1
feasibility study

3.3 Efficiency: Substantial

53.      An ex-ante economic analysis has been carried out at the time of preparation of the
project, which compared the total cost of the project with the benefits expected from corn and
wheat production increases. The analysis assumed that such increased production will generate
two benefits: increased availability of food for human consumption and animal fodder/feed (thus
contributing to a reduction in the incidence of destocking). The resulting Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) was 30% and the Net Present value (NPV) was US$940,981.

54.     The ex-post analysis applied the same model to calculate if the project’s rate of return
exceeds the opportunity cost of capital. The ex-post calculation reflects a reduction in the project
cost (US$7.5 million vs. the original of US$10.0 million), and higher actual benefits derived from
the excellent harvests of wheat and corn in 2013 and 2014. The attribution rates of the project’s
estimated impact have been kept to a minimum attempting to control for project coverage,
weather and other exogenous factors. An attribution rate of 5% results in an Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 31% and a Net Present value (NPV) is US$500,000. The underlying economic
analysis indicates that the project was implemented in an efficient manner, as better than expected
benefits were achieved at a smaller cost.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

55.      The overall project outcome is rated Satisfactory. This rating is based on the high
relevance of the PDO, the achievement of most of the agreed performance indicators, and explicit
evidence of the project’s efficiency. Although the project’s start was unavoidably delayed due to
the political situation in the country that could not have been foreseen or controlled for by the
project team, immediately after becoming effective, the project demonstrated excellent results, an
overall outcome rating of Satisfactory appears to be appropriate.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                                      12
56.      Although the project effectively targeted poor rural households and small-scale
producers, increase in their incomes was not the main objective. This was a short-term emergency
relief program aimed at recovering wheat and corn production and preventing livestock
slaughtering. However, increases in wheat and corn yields and production, as well as recovery of
the number of pigs and chicken, assume that more income would be available to producers.
According to the Impact Assessment Report, in terms of impact on income, 66% of the
interviewed individual beneficiaries mentioned that corn/wheat as one of the main income source
for their families, and 35% for livestock as the first revenue line. Women benefited equitably
from the project as of the 60,085 beneficiaries, 39% were women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
57.      Being of an emergency nature, the project was not designed with the intention of being
sustainable. It was part of a program by the international donor community to assist Moldova in a
crisis situation following the disastrous 2012 drought. However, according to the independent
evaluation conducted after project closing, the project successfully established and
operationalized the cash delivery mechanism that can serve as a good platform for similar
emergency intervention in future. In general, the project raised the level of awareness and
understanding on drought management and mitigation interventions among government agencies,
politicians and private sector. It also increased the skills of AIPA in processing grant applications.
AIPA is now more aware of the requirements and procedures to put operations on a high speed
disbursements track. But more importantly it has increased capacity for implementation of
substantial EU support programs, such as the European Neighborhood Program for Agriculture
and Rural Development, for which Moldova has become eligible in 2015.Finally, the project
provided short-term support to strengthen the agricultural advisory service, and financed the
training of communities prone to drought occurrences, to equip them with knowledge and skills
for responding to and managing extreme weather shock.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
58.      The project’s schematics, lessons learned and engendered institutional capacity in MAFI
and AIPA are presently utilized for the preparation of an Additional Financing to the Moldova
Agriculture Competitiveness Project, which is setting out to provide compensatory cash grants to
thousands of small and medium horticultural producers, to help them in abating the consequences
of a series of trade embargos in a key export market. The experience of the EASP will ensure that
these compensations are defrayed quickly and in the most efficient manner to eligible farmers.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59.     The Impact Assessment of the project confirmed that the project achieved its
development objectives despite coming short on a few output indicators. Stakeholders and
implementing agencies stated that they received a unique experience and obtained more
confidence in dealing with possible natural disasters. The report also concluded that although the
project compensations did not contribute directly to 2013 planting, the farmers’ expectations to
receive some support (following the Government’s announcement to distribute compensations),
reassured the farmers in taking a decision to continue planting corn and wheat.

60.     Another conclusion was that farmers appreciated the program’s support and that they
were not left alone to deal with the repercussions of natural hazards. In this respect, they
considered the program as an emergency relief to compensate a partial loss, and these
contributions, however modest, encouraged farmers to stay in villages, continue working on their
land, and strengthening the country’s rural society.



                                                 13
61.     More detailed description of findings of the Impact Assessment is provided in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

62.     Risks to development outcome and sustainability of project achievements are assessed
against economic/financial, institutional, social, and environmental criteria. Overall, risk to
development outcome is evaluated as Moderate.

63.      The economic and financial risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. Increased
corn and wheat production helped Moldova obtain those cereals at lower prices than if they had
been imported. Even so, trade bans on fruits and vegetables recently introduced by Russia impose
a growing financial burden for the Government, especially with respect of export of agricultural
products. The ongoing Bank’s Agriculture Competitiveness Project presents an opportunity for
the country to enhance competitiveness of the agro-food sector by supporting the modernization
of the food safety management system, and facilitating market access for farmers.

64.     The institutional risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. While capacity
building improved the Government’s readiness to deal with emergency food security issues and
its capacity to establish a mechanism for quick disbursement of compensation payments, the
Government still does not maintain an adequate database of famers, land, etc.

65.     The social risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. The project’s interventions
contributed significantly to increases in wheat and corn production, which had a positive impact
on household food security. These outcomes might be jeopardized by new droughts or surges in
food prices on international markets, which would increase the vulnerability of farm households
lacking diversified sources of income. Climate change and natural disasters continue to pose
risks. The Bank’s ongoing support for disaster and climate risk mitigation activities should help
address these risks.

66.     The environment risk to development outcome is rated High as the country remains
vulnerable to extreme climate events and natural disasters, and their impact on the agricultural
sector continue to be significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

67.     The project started on a strong footing because its design was well thought and
incorporated most suitable approaches for implementation. The process ensured that the project,
aside from meeting short-term needs, included a mechanism for more sustainable system to deal
with droughts in future. Bank management provided resources to prepare the project adequately.
It mobilized a strong team that received high-level support on fiduciary, legal, disbursement, and
safeguard concerns. The appraisal was absolutely correct in focusing on the needs for getting
agricultural production back to normal as quickly as possible. Since the supply of seeds to
farmers was found to be assured by the Government and other donors, cash transfers were rightly
considered as most important means to address the short-term production problems.




                                               14
68.    The project was prepared in short order in the light of the emergency situation. The
Government requested assistance in September, 2012, with the Bank team initiating identification
immediately, and a combined preparation and appraisal mission was fielded in late December
2012. Due to accelerated procedures for project processing as per OP 8.50, negotiations for the
IDA Credit were completed before February 19, 2013; and Board approval was obtained on
March 19, 2013. However the project became effective only on July 30, 2013 due to absence of
the Government to sign the Credit Agreement with the Bank.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

69.     The Bank took a correct position by keeping the project simple, limiting financing to
quick disbursing components and giving institutional aspects only secondary consideration. The
Bank performed commendably in assuring the quick disbursement of the cash transfer program.
Although the project start was delayed due to the Government action to determine a Designated
Account, the Bank team made everything possible to resolve this issue in the shortest period of
time.

70.     During one year of project implementation, three supervisions were carried out by the
Bank. The missions provided effective technical support for project implementation and
achievement of development objectives. The team also benefited from regular support from a
country office-based task team leader (TTL) working together with country office-based and
regional experienced financial management, and procurement staff. This ensured good quality
documentation and swift processing and approval of the project requests for No Objection.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
71.      The project was well designed, successfully implemented, and achieved most of the
performance targets. Beneficiaries were satisfied with the project’s intentions. The project was
able to arrange public awareness campaign to manage delays in project’s start.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.      The rating is based on the delayed project effectiveness/implementation that occurred due
to institutional coordination problems (leadership rivalry and turnover of government officials)
and delay in opening the Designated Account. However, the Government demonstrated more
sustained commitment to the PDO, and collaborated effectively once the political situation was
resolved. The MAFI provided overall coordination, and effectively performed supervisory
functions thorough the project life. The Ministry was able to deliver the critical elements of the
program under tight time and resource constraints, especially with respect to setting up all
institutional arrangements necessary to implement the project according to the planned design and
mechanisms. However, the quality at project entrance with respect of availability of adequate data
for the project team showed room for improvement of the MAFI’s capacity. The project revealed
that the Ministry suffered from a shortage of staff, skills, and a lack of attention to maintaining
relevant statistics on number of farmers, crops planted, land, etc.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                15
73.      The main implementing agencies included AIPA and ACSA. AIPA was in charge of
Component 1, i.e. delivery of cash payments to beneficiaries, financial management and
monitoring of the cash transfer program. Since the Government’s regulation stated that the
mechanism of payment execution for farmers who do not hold accounts to be through Posta
Moldovei, AIPA sub-contracted Posta Moldovei to administer this small portion of the amount
allocated in the compensation budget. ACSA was in charge of the implementation of Component
2, Training and Awareness. The Implementing Agencies effectively cooperated to facilitate quick
delivery of cash transfers to the drought affected farmers. ACSA initially used its own funds to
carry out training and awareness activities ahead of project effectiveness, for which it was
retroactively compensated. The farmers were aware of the coming compensation program well
before it actually arrived. ACSA also successfully established a rigorous grievance mechanism.
AIPA managed a cash transfer program very efficiently, and covered 60,085 beneficiaries instead
of 22,000 envisaged ones. Though it was burdened with an inefficient requirement for submitting
heavy paper-based packages to the MAFI to obtain approval for each application. At the same
time, as it was pointed out in an independent operational review, the system of internal checks
could have been improved by AIPA (see para 32).

74.      CAPMU played the major project coordinating role, and managed overall project
fiduciary responsibilities. CAPMU has had a vast experience in the implementation of Bank-
funded projects, and was staffed with qualified personnel. CAPMU was very efficient and
effective in implementing the project; it also performed well with respect to the project’s M&E
reporting, financial management and procurement requirements. The project complied
satisfactorily with the Bank’s financial management requirements through regular, timely
submission of financial reports and annual audits. Reporting was sufficiently timely to allow for
corrective actions, for example, cancellation of US$2.3 million before project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.    The overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, taking into account
Moderately Satisfactory performance by the Government as described above.

6. Lessons Learned

76.     In emergency projects, in order to ensure quick action, it is rather appropriate to work
through country office-based TTL, working together with country office-based and regional
fiduciary specialists, who can swiftly process and approve No Objections and other clearances.
Involvement of the existing implementing agencies such as ACSA, AIPA and CAPMU, which
have an impressive track record of implementing Bank-financed projects, was also crucial for the
success of this emergency operation.

77.      Innovative solutions enable project implementation to continue in a context of political
instability. The project had a late start followed by political instability, and could have lost
momentum, because cash transfers were not delivered on time for planting wheat and corn. Such
circumstances demanded innovative mechanisms to help the project implementation. In that
respect, the project’s decision to arrange the public awareness campaign before the project’s start
and agree on a retroactive financing to ACSA was appropriate.

78.   While the project was designed to respond to a specific drought emergency, both the
Bank and Borrower have realized that drought is, and will continue to be, a recurring



                                                16
phenomenon in Moldova. This underlines the importance of more systematic effort at building
drought management capacity, clarifying institutional roles and developing a policy framework.
Improved macroeconomic management and forecasting and improved sector planning, especially
in agriculture which remain vulnerable to periodic drought of varying intensity seem particularly
important. This is currently supported by the Bank through Bank’s two ongoing projects, i.e. the
Disaster and Climate Risk Management Project and the Agriculture Competitiveness Project.

79.      An emergency operation can only be designed on the basis of sound statistics and
credible policy. However, the Government did not accord due priority to a sound database and
was too slow in putting it in place during project implementation. At the time of emergency,
critical economic and agricultural data to enable assessment of the crisis and to provide the basis
for the design of this project were either lacking or, if available, poor in quality and inconsistent.
Moreover, what data was available was widely dispersed among Government and regional
government institutions. This situation distracted from optimal planning, and it needs to be
speedily resolved to avoid a repeat in the event of another emergency.

80.      Projects of this emergency nature work well if they have clear and well defined internal
system procedures. Especially for emergency relief operations, an efficient monitoring and
evaluation system (follow-up checks) needs to be developed and implemented in a very short
period of time. Developing a single standard manual for all participating parties is recommended
for future emergency projects.

81.      For emergency recovery loans to be successful there should be no impediments in the
institutional arrangements that could slow down disbursements as this could defeat the purpose of
the loan. To make the fullest impact, emergency projects have to demonstrate quick wins in the
shortest possible time. This entails starting with cash transfer programs, quick disbursements,
etc., that gain momentum rapidly and reach their peak during one year.

82.      Submission of detailed supporting documents and original receipts is not ideal for
emergency operations, or for speedy disbursements. The ardor involved in fulfilling the
documentation for withdrawal applications detracted AIPA from the stated intention for rapid
disbursements under Component 2. This is recommended for review in order to identify ways to
satisfy documentation requirements for withdrawal applications that are rigorous but not arduous.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

83.     The draft ICR was shared with the Government and Implementing Agencies. Feedback
on the report received from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry is provided in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                                 17
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                             Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                millions)
1. Cash Transfers to Affected
                                    9.00                  6.5312                72.6%
Farmers
2. Awareness and Training           0.35                  0.35                  100%
3. Project Management               0.65                  0.63                  96.9%

            Total Baseline Cost                10.00                  7.51      75.1%
Physical Contingencies              0.00                  0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                 0.00                  0.00                  0.00
             Total Project Costs    10.00                 7.51
Front-end fee PPF                   0.00                  0.00                  .00
Front-end fee IBRD                  0.00                  0.00                  .00
      Total Financing Required      0.00                  0.00




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                            millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                 0.00         0.00         .00
International Development
                                                         10.00          7.51            .00
Association (IDA)




12
 There were a cancellation in the amount of 2.3 mln USD and a reallocation in the amount of 114 298
SDR



                                                  18
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Cash Transfers to Affected Farmers

1. A total of 60,085 compensations were paid by the project, out of which 2,285 were paid to
   companies and 57,800 to individuals.

2. During the entire period of the MEASP activity, the total value of the compensations
   disbursed was MDL 78,730,631 covering a total area of 315,619 ha planted of wheat and
   corn.

3. In terms of geographical distribution, the South development region, as most affected,
   accessed about 39% of the disbursement, the largest amount compared to other regions.

4. As for individual beneficiaries (physical entities), 86.1% of the total compensations were paid
   to micro beneficiaries with land planted with wheat/corn of no more than 10 ha. At the same
   time, large and medium-sized companies accounted for about 80% of the disbursed
   compensations.

5. The project did not achieve one of the expected output results, but well exceeded the number
   of total beneficiaries, as well as attained other output indicators, as shown in the table below:

    Table 1: Component 1 – Cash Transfers to Affected Farmers. Actual outputs vs. PAD indicators
                                                  PAD output Project attained output Difference
Area planted with corn, ha                               300 000       183 272            -116 728
                                      Companies             x          117 883               x
                                      Individuals           x           65 389               x
Area planted with wheat, ha                              110 000       132 347             22 347
                                      Companies             x          113 594               x
                                      Individuals           x           18 753               x
Number of total beneficiaries                            22 000         59 741             37 741
                                                           x            1 997                x
                                                           x            57 744               x
Share of small farmers of the total                       70%            98%                28%
beneficiaries, by number of disbursements
                                    Companies              x             69%                  x
                                    Individuals            x            99.8%                 x
Share of small farmers of the total                       70%            34%                -36%
beneficiaries,
by size of farmer*
                                      Companies            x             20%                  x
                                      Individuals          x            98.8%                 x
Amount of cash transfer                              9 000000         6 697 768          -2 302 232
Number of districts compensated for corn                   31             33                  2
losses
                                   Companies               x              27                  x
                                   Individuals             x              33                  x




                                                    19
Number of districts compensated for wheat                15                      16                  1
losses
                                   Companies              x                      13                  x
                                   Individuals            x                      16                  x
* The evaluation team has analytically grouped the project’s beneficiaries by size, based on the following
criteria: Large farmers (> 600 ha planted area); Medium farmers (40-600 ha); Small farmers (10-40 ha);
Micro farmers (< 10 ha).

Component 2: Training and Awareness

6. Awareness workshops: During the implementation of this component 783 awareness
   workshops were organized, among which 1 was at the central level, 751 at the local village
   level and 31 at the district (rayon level). All the interviewed beneficiaries confirmed that they
   were aware of the project and its opportunities to compensate their loss.

7. Grievance mechanism. The Grievance mechanism was established and was successfully
   operational during project implementation. During the period of August 22 – December 10,
   2013, the National Agency for Rural Development (ACSA), through the Network of Rural
   Extension Service Providers, performed the collection of written and verbal claims and
   mediated their settlement, therefore ensuring an equitable and transparent way to access the
   compensations offered by the project.

8. As a result of implementation of the Grievance mechanism, ACSA, as implementing agency
   of the mechanism, received 1,768 claims from beneficiaries willing to participate in the
   compensation program. About 121 of claims were admitted for examination as plausible
   eligible and were submitted for examination and final settlement by the Steering Committee
   of the project. As a result of this process 77 claims had no valid ground, and 44 of them were
   decided to solve positively.

9. Completion of the small-scale corn silage feasibility study: The narrative section of the
   Feasibility Study was developed. The practical part of the study, which involves the
   demonstration sites, was completed in the end of August 2014.

Table 2: Component 2: Training and Awareness. Actual output vs. PAD indicators
                                       PAD output           Project attained     Project planned
                                                               output by       output by 30.08.2014
                                                               01.06.2014
Number of awareness                830 (one central level,   1 central level      1 central level
workshops                         31 in districts, plus 798  31 in districts       31 in districts
                                       at local level)       751 local level      809 local level


Grievance mechanism                    established and         established and          established and
                                           working                 working                  working
Days of training provided                    35                     35                        35
Number of broadcasting events                120                   149                       149
Completion of the small scale             developed           Theoretical part          Theoretical and
corn silage feasibility study                                   developed             demonstrational part
                                                                                          developed




                                                   20
                                          Annex 3. Economic Analysis

1.    An ex-post project economic analysis has been carried out. For continuity, the analysis used
the ex-ante model which was applied at project appraisal which compared the total cost of the
project with the benefits expected from stable corn and wheat production.

2.      The analysis assumed that stable production will generate two benefits: (i) increased
availability of food for human (10 percent of corn and 50 percent of wheat); and (ii) the
remaining 90 percent of corn and 50 percent of wheat would be consumed as fodder by animals,
thus contributing to reducing the incidence of destocking (i.e. number of animals which would be
slaughtered in addition to regular trends due to lack of feed). The benefits for the livestock sector
were expected to be multifold: (i) better fed animals would produce more meat, milk, or eggs;
(ii) farm gate prices would be less depressed because fewer producers will be forced to slaughter
their animals all at the same time; and (iii) the need to import expensive feed would be avoided.
The resulting Internal Rate of Return (IRR) at appraisal was 30% and the Net Present value
(NPV) was US$940,981.

3.    The economic analysis model has focused on the fact that in value, Moldovan agricultural
production has remained fairly steady over the past decade (even registering a slight increase),
but that the main interruption in the trend was caused by a severe drought in 2007 (Figure 1
below).

                 Figure 1: Moldova – Gross Production Value (constant 2004‐06 million US$) 

             1200

             1000

              800
                                                                                                         Agriculture
              600
                                                                                                         Cereals
              400                                                                                        Livestock

              200

                0
                     2000
                            2001
                                   2002
                                          2003
                                                 2004
                                                        2005
                                                               2006
                                                                      2007
                                                                             2008
                                                                                    2009
                                                                                           2010
                                                                                                  2011




                 Source: FAO STAT, Jan 2013


4.     On the basis of the 2007 experience, the impact of the drought on the livestock sector was
assumed to affect three sub-sectors: pigs, chicken, and cattle in order of reducing impact. All
were significantly affected in the aftermath of the 2007 drought. No meaningful relief was
provided to farmers in 2007, making that situation a good proxy for a “without project” scenario
for a likely “de-stocking” effect. Thus the assumptions on destocking were based on the effects of
the 2007 drought, since that drought was meaningfully comparable to the one in 2012. The
following ratios were used to convert the impact on destocking of the 2007 drought to estimate
the impact of the 2012 drought:



                                                                      21
        Corn yield losses in 2012 were 13 percent less acute than in 2007 (corn production
         losses: 70 percent in 2007 and 61 percent in 2012); and
        Wheat yield losses in 2012 were 34 percent less acute than in 2007 (44 percent losses in
         2007 and 29 percent in 2012).

5.     The calculations of the ex-post analysis use the assumptions/algorithms from above for a
“without project” scenario performance of the sector. For calculating benefits, actual numbers for
2013 (and where available for 2014) for production of wheat and corn, as well as beef, chicken
and pork meat, eggs and milk 13 were used, and benefits were calculated as “net”, i.e. the
difference between actuals (where possible) and the “without project” scenario. Project’s costs
reflect an actual cost of US$7.5 million, compared with US$10.0 million at appraisal.
Calculations were made in constant prices (2011), thus stripping any inflationary effects for costs
and benefits. A discount rate of 10% was used, similar to the ex-ante analysis. The attribution
rates for the estimated project impacts have been kept at very conservative levels. An attribution
rate of 5% results in an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 31% and a Net Present value (NPV) is
US$500,000. For sensitivity analysis, the attribution rate for the wheat and corn benefits only was
increased to 12% (average cost of cash grant to farmers per hectare) resulting in an IRR of 82%
and a NPV of US$1.26 million. Details are presented in the tables below.


                                       PROJECT CASH FLOWS

                                             Y1             Y2            Y3           Y4         TOTAL
Project cost,   World Bank
US$             Investment               $6,800,000       $700,000             $0           $0
                TOTAL                    $6,800,000       $700,000             $0           $0   $7,500,000
                Profits corn & wheat
                human consumption
                (10% and 50%
                respectively)              $431,527       $184,940            $0          $0
                Cattle meat                 $50,000        $45,000        $2,500      $2,500
Project
revenues,       Chicken meat               $298,900       $269,010       $14,945     $14,945
US$             Cow milk, whole,
                fresh                    $1,294,700      $1,165,230      $64,735     $64,735

                Hen eggs, in shell        $704,664         $634,198      $35,233     $35,233
                Pig meat                 $1,545,000      $1,390,500      $77,250     $77,250
                TOTAL                    $4,324,791      $3,688,878     $194,663    $194,663     $8,402,995




  For 2015-2016, project benefits are estimated based on stabilized levels of production in 2013-2014 with
13

only marginal attribution to the project. 



                                                    22
           ESTIMATED IMPACT, BASELINE (5% attribution rate of benefits)
                        Y1              Y2               Y3             Y4
Costs                   $6,800,000       $700,000
Returns                 $4,324,791     $3,688,878       $194,663        $194,663
Net flow               -$2,475,209     $2,988,878       $194,663        $194,663
IRR                           31%
NPV                      $499,167
Discount rate                 10%



       ESTIMATED IMPACT, HIGH SCENARIO (12% for wheat and corn benefits)
                       Y1             Y2              Y3              Y4
Costs                  $6,800,000      $700,000
Returns                $4,928,928    $3,947,794      $194,663        $194,663
Net flow              -$1,871,072    $3,247,794      $194,663        $194,663
IRR                          82%
NPV                    $1,262,363
Discount rate                10%




                                          23
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
              Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Anatol Gobjila             Senior Operations Officer              GFADR Task Team Leader
                                                                        Agriculture and Rural
Maurizio Guadagni          Senior Rural Development Specialist    GFADR
                                                                        Development
Elena Segura               Senior Counsel                         LEGLE Country Lawyer
Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist        GENDR Safeguards
Klavdiya Maksymenko        Social Development Specialist          GSUUR Safeguards
                                                                 GFADR Agriculture and Rural
Armen Mehrabyan            Consultant
                                                                        Development
Elena Corman               Procurement Analyst                   GGODR Procurement
Kashmira Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist         GGODR Procurement
                                                                 GGODR Financial
Oxana Druta                Financial Management Specialist
                                                                        Management
Asa Margareta G. Hoglund                                         GAGDR Agriculture and Rural
                           Agricultural Specialist
Giertz                                                                  Development
                                                                 ECCMD Project operational
Tamara Ursu                Program Assistant
                                                                        support
Supervision/ICR
Anatol Gobjila             Senior Operations Officer              GFADR Task Team Leader
                                                                        Agriculture and Rural
Maurizio Guadagni          Senior Rural Development Specialist    GFADR
                                                                        Development
Elena Segura               Senior Counsel                         LEGLE Country Lawyer
Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist        GENDR Safeguards
Klavdiya Maksymenko        Social Development Specialist          GSUUR Safeguards
Elena Corman               Procurement Analyst                   GGODR Procurement
Kashmira Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist         GGODR Procurement
                                                                 GGODR Financial
Oxana Druta                Financial Management Specialist
                                                                        Management
                                                                 ECCMD Project operational
Tamara Ursu                Program Assistant
                                                                        support
Jeren Kabayeva             Rural Development Specialist           GFADR ICR Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending (FY13)                                  8.7                       62.83
                           Total:                8.7                       62.83
Supervision/ICR
              FY14                                  10.5                     15.79
              FY15                                  17.3                     46.18
                           Total:                   27.8                     61.97



                                               24
                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.       The Impact Assessment Report was prepared by the consulting company “Alternative
Internationale de Dezvoltare” in August 2014. The Beneficiary Survey involved a sample group
of 270 beneficiaries as individuals (physical entities) and 160 SME beneficiaries. This sample
group was randomly selected according to the following criteria required for the impact
assessment:
     Beneficiaries as individuals (physical entities): total 9 districts (rayons) and 27 villages,
         covering north, center, south and Gagauzia region.
     160 SME beneficiaries: Geographical Location: North, Central, and South
     160 SME beneficiaries by Size: Small (< 120 ha of planted corn/wheat), Medium (120-
         600 ha of planted corn/wheat), Large (> 600 ha of planted corn/wheat).

2.      The beneficiaries were asked to answer the questionnaire by remembering the situation
before and after obtaining the MEASP compensation. The interviewees were asked to provide
information on following areas:
     Confirmation that they received the compensation, confronting the amount received and
        area planted;
     Outcome of the dissemination of the MEASP, level and the source of their information
        on MEASP opportunities;
     Statistics on the area planted of wheat/corn, before, during and after the project;
     Statistics on the owned livestock before, during and after the project;
     What was the actual loss as a result of the 2011 draught;
     Their source and volume of annual revenues (both households and SMEs);
     Perception and level of satisfaction of the MEASP project;
     Did the project compensations had any impact on the decisions made beneficiaries in
        2012-2013 related to continuing to plant corn and wheat;
     Did the project made their decision (both physical and economic entities) on reducing the
        slaughtering of livestock as a result of project intervention;
     The level of farmers’ satisfaction with received compensations and provided awareness
        about project financial and technical support.

3.      The control group was constructed through a semi-experimental approach by asking the
beneficiaries:
    If they would have planted the wheat/corn if there was no compensation provided by
        MEASP.
    What would happen if such projects as MEASP won’t exists in the future? Would they
        continue to plant wheat/corn even if losses occur due to climacterically hazard?
    Does such compensation, under the MEASP project condition have provided any
        incentive for planting wheat/corn?

4.      Data accuracy: The answers of the SMEs beneficiaries (economic entities) have been
crosschecked with their official agricultural reports to the NBS, where they report the total area of
wheat/corn plated as well as average yield of cereals. The answers of the SMEs beneficiaries
(economic entities) also have been crosschecked with the data submitted to Local Selection
Committees and AIPA offices, in order to receive the compensation.

5.     The evaluation team assessed several output indicators. Some of them were included in
the Results Framework and Monitoring of the Project Paper (official WB appraisal document)



                                                 25
defined as the Project Development Indicator (PDIs) and the ones were requested to be assessed
by the TORs.

           Project Development Indicators (PDIs)                     TORs impact indicators
    1    Percentage change over the 2009-2011             Impact the project had on the decisions made by
         average national production of wheat.            farmers (both physical and economic entities) in
         Baseline -39% / End Target -20%.                 2012-2013 related to continuing to plant corn
                                                          and wheat.

                                                          Farmers’ decision (both physical and economic
                                                          entities) on reducing the slaughtering of
                                                          livestock as a result of project intervention.
    2    Percentage change over the 2009-2011             Increase in farmers’ incomes after project
         average national production of corn. Baseline    intervention
         -61% / End Target -20%
    3    Percentage change over the 2009-2011
         average number of pigs, chicken, and cattle.
         Baseline: Pigs - 34%, chickens - 19%, cattle -
         18%
         End Target: Pigs -31%, chicken -17%, cattle -
         16%

6.      The following impact assessment results were provided by the evaluation team in the
report:


    A. PDI Percentage changes over the 2009-2011 average national production of wheat.
       Baseline -39% / End Target -20%.

7.      The MEASP has compensated losses for the autumn wheat (hereinafter in this Annex
referred to Wheat) of the year 2012.

8.       Because of this consideration the impact of the MEASP was evaluated based on actual
plantation and production of autumn wheat only (thus excluding spring wheat).

9.       Looking at the general picture of the national production of wheat Moldova for 2009-
2013, it registered a certain growth trend in annual production.

Table1: National production of wheat, 2009-2013, thous. tons

           Year      Wheat, 000 t
           2009           729
           2010           730
           2011           786
           2012           488
           2013           994
*NBS and Evaluation Team analytical data




                                                   26
10.      In terms of the MEASP Project Development Indicator 1 the table above, the following
results were achieved:

    Wheat
       Average yearly wheat production in 2009-2011: 748 thous. tons
       Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 33% (Average yearly wheat
          production in 2013 was 994 thous. tons)

11.      This would lead to the conclusion that the project had a positive impact on general
recovery of the wheat production, with a growth pace much greater than predicted at the design
stage of the project.

12.     The table with National production of wheat, 2009-2013 included production of wheat
and corn from three major sources as follows:

        a) Agricultural Enterprises;
        b) Individual sector, which includes Peasant Farms and individual citizens;
        c) Public sector (ownership).

13.     For a better and more consistent understanding of the growth trend of wheat production,
this PDI was analyzed separately for the first two groups of producers: Agricultural Enterprises
and Individual sector.

Table 2: National production of wheat, by type of farmers, 2009-2013, thous. tons

year   Total, 000 t     Agricultural     Peasant farm/Individual sector   Public property
                      companies, 000 t               000 t                     000 t
2009        714             477                       229                        8
2010        730             513                       209                        8
2011        786             560                       219                        7
2012        488             372                       112                        4
2013        994             731                       254                        9
*NBS and Evaluation Team analytical data

14.     Assuming the same exercise in order to asses this MEASP Project Development Indicator
1, it would lead to the following return:

    Agricultural companies

           Average yearly wheat production in 2009-2011: 536 thous. tons
           Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 36%

    Peasant farm/Individual sector

           Average yearly wheat production in 2009-2011: 214 thous. tons
           Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 19%




                                                 27
15.     The MEASP level of positive impact on general recovery of the wheat production
was difficult to assess, but it eventually could be compared as the area planted of wheat as total in
the country in 2012 to the area planted of wheat under the MEASP compensation program.

16.     Individual sector/Peasant Farms. The MEAS compensated about 32% of total planted
area of wheat in 2012, or 27 865 hectares compensated out of 86 000 ha as total.

Figure1: Total area of wheat planted in 2012 vs. compensation provided by MEASP for
individual beneficiaries


                 86 000




                                            27 865                         32%




       Planted wheat  in  2012, 000  Compensated wheat  by              Planted wheat  in  2012, 000 ha
                  ha                    MEASP, 000  ha                  Compensated wheat  by MEASP,  000 ha



17.    Agricultural companies (excluding peasant farms). The MEAS compensated about
46% of total planted area of wheat in 2012, or 103 248 hectares compensated out of 224 662 ha as
total.

Figure 2: Total area of wheat planted in 2012 vs. compensation provided by MEASP for
agricultural companies 
           224  662




                                      103  248
                                                                     46%




  Planted wheat  in  2012, 000  Compensated wheat  by              Planted wheat  in  2012, 000 ha
             ha                    MEASP, 000  ha                  Compensated wheat  by MEASP,  000 ha



18.     As a conclusion the MEASP definitely had a positive impact on general recovery of the
wheat production, considering the area of wheat compensated against the total area of wheat
planted in the country.




                                                              28
    B. PDI Percentage changes over the 2009-2011 average national production of corn.
       Baseline -61% / End Target -20%


19.     As for the country corn production in 2009-2011, it registered a certain growth trend in
annual production, shown in the following table.

Table3: National production of corn, 2009-2013, thous. tons

           Year      Corn, 000 t
           2009         1141
           2 010        1419
           2 011        1468
           2 012        572
           2 013        1419
*NBS and Evaluation Team analytical data

20.     Using the same algorithm and applying the same consequence of analytical tools, as it
was in the case for PDI 1, the impact of MEASP on corn production would conclude with the
following results shown below.

    Corn
           Average yearly wheat production in 2009-2011: 1343 thous. tons;
           Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 6% (Average yearly corn
            production in 2013 was 1419 thous. tons).

21.     For a better understanding of the source of corn production in the country, the evaluation
team found appropriate to breakdown production of corn by Agricultural Companies and Peasant
farm/Individual sector.

Table 4: National production of corn, by type of farmers, 2009-2013, thous. tons

year Total, 000 t       Agricultural   Peasant farm/Individual sector
                      companies, 000 t             000 t
2009       1420            219.6                   1025
2010       1468            279.9                   1200
2011        572            109.3                   1188
2012       1419            496.6                    463
2013       1419            219.6                    922

22.     This would also help to analyze PDI 2 separately for Agricultural Companies and Peasant
farm/Individual sector, as follows:

    Agricultural companies
        Average yearly corn production in 2009-2011: 246 thous. tons
        Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 99%

    Peasant farm/Individual sector


                                               29
             Average yearly corn production in 2009-2011: 1194 thous. tons
             Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: - 23%

23.    Agricultural companies almost doubled their corn production in 2013 compared to
average harvest of 2009-2011, having a greater pace of growth, thus the project retain greater
impact when compensating Agricultural Companies vs. Peasant farm/Individual sector.

24.     Another observation was that the Peasant farm/Individual sector gradually decreased corn
production over the years, proved also by the NBS data, and validated in the next figure.

Figure 3: Corn production, individual sector, 2004-2013, thous. tons

                            Corn production, individual sector, 000 t
            1600
                   1364
            1400          1258                 1240          1200
                                 1175                               1188
            1200
                                                      1026
            1000                                                                  923

            800
            600                                                            463
            400                         331

            200
              0
                   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013



25.     This leads to the conclusion that the project had a positive impact on general recovery
of the corn production, with a growth pace greater as predicted at the design stage of the project.

Combining 1st and 2nd PDIs impact indicators

26.     The evaluation team “blended” the results of both PDO indicators, and received the
following results:

    Wheat + Corn
       Average yearly production in 2009-2011: 2202 thous. tons
       Percentage change for 2013 over the 2009-2011: + 10%

27.      The final conclusion is that the MEASP has definitely and directly contributed in
attaining both PDIs, even exceeded the planned values of these indicators.

    C. PDI Percentage change over the 2009-2011 average numbers of pigs, chicken, and
       cattle.

    Baseline: Pigs - 34%, chickens - 19%, cattle -18%


                                                30
    End Target: Pigs -31%, chicken -17%, cattle -16%

28.      Analyzing the available data, the team succeeded to assess this indicator, which leads to
the following result:

Table 5: Percentage change over the 2009-2011 average numbers of pigs, chicken, and cattle

               Average 2009-2011        End Target planned vs.     2013 actual Results compared to
                                          average 2009-2011               average 2009-2011
Pigs              380 thous. units      262 thous. units (-34%)        420 thous. units (+60%)
Chickens         3252 thous. units      2699 thous. units (-19%)       3475 thous. units (+6%)
Cattle            219 thous. units      184 thous. units (-16%)         189 thous. units (-14%)

29.     The evaluation team concluded that the project had a positive impact on general recovery
of the number of pigs and chicken, with a growth pace much greater as predicted at the design
stage of the project. As for the cattle there was a positive recovery, overcoming project planned
indicator, but still the number of cattle was less than it was as average in 2009-2011.

    D. TOR’s Impact the project had on the decisions made by farmers (both physical and
       economic entities) in 2012-2013 related to continuing to plant corn and wheat.

    E. TOR’s Farmers’ decision (both physical and economic entities) on reducing the
       slaughtering of livestock as a result of project intervention

30.      The cash compensation program of MEASP was designed specifically to determine
beneficiaries’ decision to plant winter wheat and corn during the 2013 campaign so as to prevent
the risk of animal destocking.

31.     Due a substantial delay in the Project’s start (June 2013, corn being already planted in
spring) and, as a consequence, the dissemination of the MEASP compensation program carried in
July-August of 2013 i.e. later than the plantation period, the project had rather an indirect effect
on the decision of the farmers to plant their land with corn/wheat or preventing the risk of animal
destocking.

32.     It is evident that compensations themselves didn’t contribute directly to autumn 2013
planting, however, farmers’ expectations to receive some support and later announcement of the
Government’s intention to distribute compensations could in a way reassure the farmers (both
physical and economic entities) in taking the decision to continue planting corn and wheat,
making them to change family’s budgeting priorities and processing fields in time.

33.     One of the finding is that all surveyed farmers stated that they would continue to plant
wheat/corn even if such compensation programs won’t exists since this is their main source of
income. However, they do appreciate the program’s support since it brings them more confidence
in standing against eventual disasters and not being left alone in front of new natural hazards. In
this sense, such programs should be considered as emergency relief to compensate partial loss,
modest contributions being used to encourage farmers to stay in villages, continue working their
lands and thus maintain and strengthen the country’s rural society.

34.     Below is the set of potential factors, which could explain local farmer’s
perception/decision to continue planting wheat and corn no matter what external factors may
occur.


                                                31
         Crop rotation factor. Crop rotation gives various nutrients to the soil. A traditional
          element of crop rotation is the replenishment of nitrogen through the use of green manure
          in sequence with cereals and other crops, especially wheat and corn in Moldova. In this
          regard, a certain area of wheat/corn would be planted annually despite any climate
          disasters, which may affect negatively the agricultural sector. Many of the interviewed
          SMEs mentioned this as one of the main factor, which forms their decision to plant, a
          certain area of wheat/corn annually.

         Workforce shortages. Many agricultural companies face the problem of the absence of
          the local labor force. The plantation of cereals, including wheat/corn implies little labor
          force, being mainly mechanized activities. That is why more than 80% of interviewed
          agricultural companies, stated that they will continue with cereal plantations, and in long
          run are not willing to shift to a heavy workforce load activities, such as multiannual
          plantations.

         Small amount of compensation. All the interviewed beneficiaries mentioned their
          gratitude for the received compensation but indicated that amount was too small.
          Economically speaking the compensation for corn accounted for about 4.5% of the actual
          loss, thus 94.5% of the loss remained at the expense of the farmer. The same situation
          was confirmed for wheat, where compensation amounted to approx. 3.2% of the actual
          loss of the farmer. Even though, the compensation undoubtedly helped the affected
          farmers, the amount was too small in order influence directly and indisputable on
          farmer’s decision-making process to continue planting corn and wheat and reduce
          slaughtering of livestock.

      F. TORs Increase in farmers’ incomes after project intervention

Individual beneficiaries (physical entities)

35.     Before detailed analyses of this indicator, the evaluation team filtered the database of the
individual beneficiaries who received MEASP compensation. For instance, they did not consider
individual beneficiaries with area planted of wheat/corn larger than 10 ha as individual sector.

36.     There are beneficiaries who received compensation for areas larger than 100 ha, who
should be clearly treated as economic activity, i.e. these beneficiaries should be treated as
business units or economic entities and not individuals (physical entities).

Table 6: Grouping of MEASP individuals, as beneficiaries with less than 10 ha of
wheat/corn planted in 2012

Individuals by size                                          Unit of measure               Result
Total Individuals compensated by MEASP                             number                  57 744
Total compensation paid to individuals by MEASP                     mdl                  29 776 107
Individuals with >10 ha                                            number                    549
Individuals with >10 ha                                    compensation paid, mdl         4 141 683
Individuals with >10 ha                                  share in compensation paid          14%


37.       About 14% of total compensated individuals should be considered as business entities.


                                                 32
38.    The impact analyses focused only on those beneficiaries who planted areas of wheat and
corn combined, less than 10 ha.

39.      As a result of interviews of the selected individual beneficiaries, the evaluation team
found out that these beneficiaries increased their area of wheat by 58% and 8% of corn in 2014,
compared to the plantations in 2012. Only 2% of surveyed declared that they reduced their wheat
plantations, and about 15% of them reduced corn area plantations, which indicates a positive
trend in recovering of these cereals.

40.      As regard to the livestock, the survey identified that individual beneficiaries increased
their livestock by 53%, years 2013-2014 compared to 2012. Only 7% of surveyed farmers stated
that they reduced their livestock.

41.     In terms of the income source, 66% of the interviewed sample mentioned corn/wheat as
one of the main income source for their families, and 35% for livestock as a revenue line.

42.    It was assessed, based on the results of the survey, that the average income per one adult
member of the household, considering corn and wheat. Corn generates about 4943 mdl/annually
(or 16% as additional income for salary) as income for one adult. Wheat generates about 749
mdl/annually per one adult (or 2% as additional income for salary).

43.     Summarizing the MEAP impact, in terms of income generation and its increase, taking
into consideration areas of wheat/corn increase, the evaluation team came up to the following
outcomes:

Table 7: Surveyed beneficiaries: Area of wheat/corn plantation, 2014 vs. 2012
Increased area of wheat                                                                      58%
Increased area of corn                                                                        8%
Percentage of surveyed who reduced wheat plantations                                          2%
Percentage of surveyed who reduced corn plantations                                          15%
Table 8: Surveyed beneficiaries: Livestock situation, 2014 vs. 2012
Increased livestock                                                                          53%
Percentage of surveyed reduced livestock                                                      7%
Table 9: Surveyed beneficiaries: Source of income
Percentage of surveyed consider corn/wheat as source of income                               66%
Percentage of surveyed consider livestock as source of income                                35%
Salaries as source of income                                                                 52%

                                                                                mdl/annual
Income from corn                                                                  4 943
Income from wheat                                                                  749
Average salary in rural areas                                                     31 200
Income from corn additional to salaries                                            16%
Income from wheat additional to salaries                                           2%




                                                 33
Agricultural companies (economic entities)

44.     The provision of cash to targeted companies within MEASP, can be qualified as
emergency relief to compensate some of the loss of the previous harvested year (2012) and can’t
be considered as source of finance to buy assets, i.e. means that would generate income in a
medium-long run. In other words these compensations hardly can be considered as source of
financing of asset generating income. On the other hand, increase in profitability is not the main
indicator stipulated in the appraisal document, but as compensations as emergency relief had the
objective to recover the area plantation, rather than increase companies’ income.

45.    These payments were not used for procurement of production factors either, but rather
used for procurement of raw material, i.e. consumables. Financially speaking, the MEASP
compensations are to be recognized as part of companies’ analytical Profit and Loss account, at
the “Non-operating section”. These are gains from other than primary agricultural activities.

46.     On this subject, the evaluation team decided to assess the MEASP compensation as a late
source of aid/relief, since the project implementation had a substantial delay of six month, source
that was used to offset/compensate some of the current direct/indirect cost in wheat/corn
production and not as a source of generating income.

47.      All of surveyed agricultural companies stated that they used these cash in business
activities, mainly paying post factum the expenses for 2013 autumn plantations costs, since the
compensations were wired in November-December 2013.

48.     The compensation accounted for a small part of the actual costs, economically speaking
having small impact on the general companies’ profitability. As for wheat the compensations
averagely reduced the production costs by 3.2%14 and for corn by 4.5%, which eventually will
contribute to a higher profit in 2014. Taking into consideration the share of compensation in total
consumables, MEASP agricultural companies may account a higher profit by about 5% in 2014.

    G. The level of farmers’ satisfaction with received compensations and provided
       awareness about project financial and technical support.

49.      Based on the results of the survey, both, individual and agricultural companies declared
their satisfaction with the project, but mentioning that the compensation value was too small to
cover their basic production cost of cereals.

50.     The awareness process succeeded to create equal access to information and MEASP
opportunities. Individuals and agricultural companies had different source of information about
the project activities. The survey showed the following breakdown:

Table 10: Source of information about MEASP
                                                                              Individuals             Agricultural
                                                                                                       companies
Primaria                                                                         63%                     14%




                                                34
AIPA (central+regional offices)        1.50%   47%
TV and mass media                       24%    32%
ACSA local offices                      12%    7%




                                  35
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The Stakeholder Workshop was held by CAPMU on January 19, 2015. CAPMU made an official
presentation on project results during the CAPMU’s Supervisory Board meeting where all project
stakeholders were invited. The participants were:


Vasile Bumacov                                         Chairman of CAPMU Steering
                                                       Committee, Minister of Agriculture and
                                                       Food Industry

Gheorghe Gaberi                                        Deputy Minister of Agriculture and
                                                       Food Industry

Veronica Josu                                          Representative of the Ministry of
                                                       Environment, CAPMU Steering
                                                       Committee


Nadejda Russu                                          Representative of the Ministry of
                                                       Finance, CAPMU Steering Committee


Octavian Calmic                                        Member of CAPMU Steering
                                                       Committee, Ministry of Economy


Emma Tabirta                                           Member of CAPMU Steering
                                                       Committee, Deputy Governor of the
                                                       National Bank of Moldova

Ion Gumene                                             Representative of the State Chancellery,
                                                       CAPMU Steering Committee

Anatolie Placinta                                      Member of CAPMU Steering
                                                       Committee, member of the Republican
                                                       Council of Producers’ Fruit Association

Ion Sula                                               Director, National Food Safety Agency

Nicolae Ciubuc                                         Deputy Director, Agency for
                                                       Intervention and Payments for
                                                       Agriculture

Daniela Manole                                         Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                                                       Industry

The event pictures are attached below.




                                             36
37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  38
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     39
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Paper, Moldova Emergency Agriculture Support Project; Report No.: 73722-MD;

Restructuring Project Paper dated March 20, 2014 No.:RES13720;

Project Aide Memoirs and ISRs;

CAPMU Project Progress Reports;

Final Impact Assessment by the NGO “Alternative Internationale de Dezvoltare,” August 2014;

Operational Review of the Moldova Emergency Agriculture Support Project by the NGO
“Alternative Internationale de Dezvoltare,” August 2014;

Country Assistance Strategy (FY14-FY17), World Bank, August 2013;

Moldova Country Brief, April 2013;

Moldova Public Expenditure Review, May 2013

Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (National

Development Strategy: “Moldova 2020”), August 1, 2013

The Impact of Climate Change on Drylands: With Focus on West Africa by Ton Dietz, R. Ruben,
A. Vehagen 2004;

When AIDS Meets Poverty by De Waal, 1989




                                             40
MAP




41
