OFM(AAL
1DOCUMENTS              U -;g /,I- r
Supplemental Letter No. 1
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
CAJ              , 2013
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re:    Credit No. 5219 -MD
(Emergency Agriculture Support Project)
Section 5.01 of the General Conditions
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
In connection with the Financing Agreement (Financing Agreement) of this date between
the Republic of Moldova (Member Country) and International Development Association
(Association) providing financing (Financing) for the above-captioned Project, and the General
Conditions (General Conditions) made applicable to the Financing Agreement, I am writing on
behalf of the Member Country to set forth the following:
I.     We understand and agree that, for purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
the Member Country is required by the Association to report "long-term external debt" (as
defined in the World Bank's Debtor Reporting System Manual, dated January 2000 (DRSM)), in
accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to notify the Association of new "loan
commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30 days after the end of the quarter during
which the debt is incurred, and to notify the Association of "transactions under loans" (as defined
in the DRSM) once a year, not later than March 31 of the year following the year covered by the
report.
2.     We represent that no defaults exist in respect of any external debt (as defined in the
DRSM). It is our understanding that, in making the Financing, the Association may rely on the
representations set forth or referred to in this letter.


﻿3.     Please confirm  your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized
representative of the Association sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF MOLDO A
By
Authorized r/vntativ
AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByA_uthorized Representati
Autrorized Repentiv


