FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1553a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR
THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 17, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                        = 2.07 Ethiopia Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth.$ 1.00                      = us$ o.48
Eth.$ 1 million                 = US$ 480,000
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7
Note: There is no agreed spelling for Amharic words translated from Amharic
script to English: the appraisal report has used the spelling used on EHA
road maps, while we for purposes of consistency with previous reports, use
the more common Ethiopian spelling in the President's Report.



DOi('ti\11LN'r oF
A"'l j R Ai ¢/, \-l /()\ 1 T /  /N. I  /. 1   /() /. I'l  |' I I  \V /' ,. SS 0 T/ ) _1 -   0A'
\0()1- FUR  111!1iiLIC   Ii5,f-
FOR                                                                     For consideration on
EXECUlTIVE         I                                                    April 29, 1975
DIRECTORS'
MEETING                                                                 IDA/R75-29/1
FROM:   The Secretary                             April 22, 1975
ETHIOPIA: Sixth Highway Project
Parts of Annex I to the President's Report and Recommendation
distributed on April 17, 1975 (IDA/R75-29) were incorrect. Attached
hereto is the complete corrected Annex I.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice President, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$32 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a highway project. Part of the proceeds of the
credit (US$2 million) would be relent to the Agricultural and Industrial Bank
(AIDB) at 8.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Events in Ethiopia during the past year have been dominated bv the
political revolution which began in late February 1974. Widespread political
and economic discontent, inflamed by the Government's slow response to the
famine in the drought areas of lWollo and Tigre provinces, and to otlher press-
ing economic and social needs, gave rise to demonstrations in the streets of
Addis Ababa. Riots over the cost of living, strikes by teachers, taxi drivers
and others, and pay mutinies by the armed forces, led to a general military
revolt that precipitated the resignation of the cabinet on February 27. From
Februarv to September a new cabinet, appointed by the Emperor and apparently
acceptable to the armed forces, administered the country, but power gravitated
increasingly to the military.
3.        The first actions of the new cabinet were to grant pay increases
to the armed forces, police, teachers and civil servants, and to promise
political and social reforms, including a new constitution and a free press.
In spite of these moves, political and economic unrest, as well as criticism
of the regime, continued through the spring. In late April, at the demand
of the armed forces, the Emperor agreed to the arrest of some 20 former
ministers and certain military officers on charges of corruption. From June
through September the armed forces ordered further arrests of some 200 con-
servative leaders, including senators, provincial governors and members of
the Emperor's Crown Council. Additionally, they moved to take over or
dissolve the institutions used by the Emperor to rule the country. Finally
in September the armed forces arrested the Emperor, suspended the constitution
and Parliament, and proclaimed rule by a Provisional Military Administrative
Council (PMAC) pending the election of a new parliament and the approval of
a new constitution. General Aman Michael Andom, the Defense Minister, was
appointed head of the Provisional Government. The former Prime Minister
was appointed Minister of Information and other cabinet ministers, government
officials and civil servants were requested to continue in their posts.



- 2 -
4.        On November 23, the revolution, which until then had been almost
completely bloodless, took a violent turn. In an apparent confrontation
over control of the revolution, the PMAC attempted to arrest General Aman,
who was killed in an ensuing gun battle. Following the death of General Aman,
the Provisional Government, apparently fearing a counter-revolutionary coup,
carried out summary executions of 59 political prisoners, including two former
prime ministers, other former ministers, provincial governors, senior army
officers and aristocrats. The killing of Aman and the executions sent shock
waves through Ethiopia and the international community. In recognition of
the adverse reaction at home and abroad, the Government declared that all
prisoners still being held would be given a fair trial. Recently, however,
the press has reported that persons caught organizing armed opposition to
Government reform measures have been executed.
5.        On December 20 the PMAC declared that Ethiopia would become a
socialist state. This was followed on January 1, 1975, by a decree nationali-
zing the financial sector (banks, insurance companies and savings associations).
In early February some 100 medium- and large-scale manufacturing and distri-
buting firms owned by Ethiopians and foreigners were nationalized; seventy-two
were taken over entirely, and the Government acquired a majority ownership
in twenty-nine others. The Government declared its intention to pay full
compensation.
6.        In early February, fighting broke out between the armed forces and
the Eritrean Liberation Front. Most of the fighting has been concentrated
in and around the principal city of Asmara, which is still held by the
Government. At this time fighting apparently continues, but since there is
only minimal international press coverage, little is known about the situation.
7.        On March 4, 1975 the PMAC issued the long awaited land reform
proclamation which nationalized all land and restricted individual holdings
to a maximum of 10 ha. This brought to an end the old feudal structure of
land ownership under which about 90 percent of the rural population were
engaged in agriculture as tenants. In preparation for this step, the Govern-
ment had replaced the old provincial and district governors with carefully
chosen administrators who were given training and orientation in land reform
and other rural development measures. In addition, about 30,000 students were
sent to the rural areas for the purpose of explaining to the peasant farmers
the implications and benefits of land reform while participating in a work
campaign for rural development. There have been, not unexpectedly, some
reports of resistance and opposition to the land reform measures, but it
appears the measures have received general acceptance by the vast majority
of the Ethiopian population. Another development in early March was a change
in the civilian cabinet which brought in a number of well trained technocrats
who had in their previous positions demonstrated considerable ability and
achievement.



8.        Throughtout this period of upheaval, the civilian cabinet and the
Ethiopian bureaucracy have continued to function reasonably well. The Govern-
ment's takeover of banks and industries has led to a diversion of some scarce
trained manpower from Government ministries to the management of the national-
ized enterprises. In addition, the Government has transferred a large number
of officials from the ministries and other Government agencies to local govern-
ment institutions as a part of a Government program to decentralize functions
to the subprovincial and district levels. The effect of these transfers on the
efficiency of operation of the ministries and agencies of the central Government
is not immediately clear but some loss of efficiency is likely.
9.        In this changing atmosphere, Bank Group operations for the most part
have proceeded satisfactorily. Appraisals and supervisions are continuing to
proceed normally, and an economic updating mission visited the countrv in March.
Regarding existing projects, the execution of two projects (Humera Agricultural
Development, IDA Credit 188-.ET, and the Lower Adiabo, IDA Credit 516-ET) have
been adversely affected due to their proximity to Eritrea. Other projects
have not been seriously affected by recent developments, and decisions have
continued to be made and normal work has continued. The Government has
indicated to us that, despite its preoccupation with political events, it is
desirous of pursuing an accelerated program of economic development, with
emphasis on the lower-income groups.
10.       A report, "Recent Economic Performance and Future Prospects in
Ethiopia," Report No. 9a-ET (R73-162) was circulated on June 15, 1973. An
economic updating mission was carried out in March of this year. Annex I
contains country data.
11.       Ethiopia, with an annual per capita income of only US$80 in 1972,
is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries of the
world. The population is predominantly rural and depends on agriculture for
its livelihood. In recent years the agricultural sector has contributed
50 to 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of export earnings. The leading
exports are coffee, hides and skins, pulses and oilseeds. Manufacturing,
including handicrafts and small-scale industries, contributes only 10 percent
of GDP, and the output of the mining sector is negligible.
12.       An estimated 85 to 90 percent of the people are subsistence farmers
living in isolated rural villages. Although some large commercial farms did
exist, most farming units were small. A recent survey in one province showed
that 92 percent of the cultivated holdings were less than one hectare. Agri-
cultural productivity is, in general, very low. Methods of cultivation used
by most farmers have changed little over many centuries; the soils in many
highland areas are seriously depleted from prolonged overgrazing and over-
cropping, and the prevailing systems of land tenure generally did not provide
adequate incentives for investments which would raise farmers' productivity.
The development of agriculture is also inhibited by the lack of transportation.
There are few secondary and tertiary roads, and perhaps three-fourths of
Ethiopia's farms are more than one-half day's walking distance from a road.



- 4 -
This means transport costs are often too high to make it profitable for sub-
sistence farmers to expand production for the market. As a consequence, there
has been little or no improvement In rural living standards in recent years.
Difficult though the development of agriculture may be, the lack of other
resources means progress in developing the Ethiopian economy rests almost
entirely on developing agriculture.
13.       The land reform proclamation mentioned in paragraph 7 has major
implications for the development of agriculture and the rural economy. As
noted, all rural land has been nationalized. Farm families are to be given
user-rights on land up to a maximum of 10 hectares. Subject to this ceiling,
sufficient land for maintenance of family will be allotted to cultivators;
previous landowners will also be eligible for such allocation. All land must
be cultivated by family labor; land cannot be sold or transferred, but children
would have the same user-rights in the land as their parents. In communal and
nomadic areas peasants and pastoralists will have rights to use of the land
for cultivation and grazing; they will be encouraged to form peasant associa-
tions, to organize cooperative farms and otherwise cooperate in the use of
grazing and water rights. In settled areas, peasants' associations will be
formed around 800-hectare blocks of land. These associations will distribute
the land to the cultivators, establish judicial committees to hear land dis-
putes arising within the area, establish credit and marketing cooperatives,
and assist in building schools, clinics and the like. Peasants' associations
will also be established at the awraja (sub-province) and woreda (district)
levels; they will appoint judicial committees which will adjudicate land
disputes brought to them directly or on appeal from lower levels. Civil
courts will have no jurisdiction on matters relating to rural land. The
Government will have responsibility for settling peasants and establishing
cottage industries to accommodate those who cannot be allotted sufficient
land.
14.       The ultimate disposition of large-scale farms is not entirely clear.
The proclamation provides that large-scale farms shall be owned and run by
the State or by cooperatives or distributed to tillers for individual use.
The Government is now assigning managers to these farms, which will be
operated as state farms under the supervision of the Ministry of National
Resource Development. The Government will pay appropriate compensation
for movable property and permanent works on all nationalized land, but no
compensation will be paid for land.
15.       In the short run, the land reform measures may result in some dis-
ruption in agricultural production because of problems relating to making
credit, work animals, implements, fertilizer, seeds and pesticides available.
These requirements are being met in some parts of the country under the
Minimum Package Program and a few comprehensive agricultural development
projects like the Wolamo Agricultural Development Project and the Chilalo
Agricultural Development Project. However, in large parts of the country,
these requirements have traditionally been met by landlords, and such arrange-
ments have been disrupted. The proposed peasants' associations are intended



- 5 -
to form the nuclei of cooperative societies for channeling required inputs
and possibly also for storage and marketing. However, a large force of
trained extension workers will be required, along with credit and storage
facilities and timely supply of inputs, to keep planting and production
going. An effective nationwide organization to plan, program and provide a
wide variety of services to the rural areas has to be built up. In the long
run, the distribution of land to the cultivator should lead to increased
incentives, efficiency and better morale for the peasant farmer and ultimately
to a better life in the rural areas.
16.       The Ethiopian population of approximately 27 million (mid-1974
estimate) is heavily concentrated in the youngest age groups, with 45 percent
under the age of 15. As a result of this age distribution, the proportion
of the population which is economically active is relatively low and the
dependency ratio is correspondingly high. Average life expectancy at birth
is only 39. The urban population presently comprises less than 10 percent
of the total, but it is growing at an estimated rate of 6.5 percent per annum.
At this rate the urban population will rise from 2.3 million in 1970 to almost
6 million by 1985. While there are no comprehensive data on employment and
unemployment, it is evident that opportunities in the towns have not kept
pace with the supply of workers with the result that urban unemployment is
growing. There is also significant underemployment in both the rural and
urban areas. Fragmentary evidence suggests that maldistribution of income
has increased in recent years. Although data on wages are scanty, they
suggest that the income of agricultural laborers and unskilled workers in
general have been virtually stagnant at a low level. The slow growth of
agriculture where the majority of the people are engaged, the unchanging
rural wage, and apparently rising urban unemployment, are indications of a
worsening of income distribution.
17.       While enrollment in primary schools has risen at an average rate of
11 percent per annum over the last 15 years, only about 20 percent of primary
school-age children (ages 7-12) were enrolled in 1973-74. Only about 6 percent
of the secondary-school-age population attends school, and the adult literacy
rate is estimated to be only 7 percent. Inequality of educational opportuni-
ties between rural and urban areas remains a serious problem, and achieve-
ments in the special adult literacy program lag substantially behind targets.
Thus, despite creditable efforts on the part of the Government, overall edu-
cational attainment remains low in comparison with the rest of Africa and the
developing world in general.
18.       Ethiopia's First and Second Development Plans gave priority to the
development of infrastructure and to the establishment of manufacturing
industries (mainly government-financed) based on import substitution. The
Third Plan (FY69-74) emphasized more balanced development of agriculture and
industry, and the new Government is expected to give increased attention to
agriculture, rural education, rural health and water supplies, and to other
activities such as rural roads which directly support agricultural develop-
ment. During the past two decades, the Government has made efforts to



- 6 -
accelerate the pace of development by controlling expenditures on defense,
increasing expenditures on education, introducing some new taxes (including
an agricultural income tax), and improving the effectiveness of the public
service. However, these efforts have been only a beginning, and progress to
date has generally fallen short of objectives. There are severe institutional
shortcomings in Ethiopia; institutions are changing slowly, and the modest
pace of institutional improvement has inhibited economic growth. Additional
constraining factors in the past have been inadequate levels of domestic
savings and low absorptive capacity.
19.       During the period 1961-1968, the GDP grew at an average rate of
4.7 percent per year in real terms. However, during the first five years of
the Third Plan (FY69-73), the average rate of growth was only 3.9 percent,
well below the Plan target of 6 percent. With population expanding at an
estimated 2.4 percent per year, growth in per capita incomes has been low,
varying from about 2.5 percent per year in the early 1960's to 1.5 percent
or less in recent years (as compared to the Third Plan target of 3.5 percent).
20.       One cause of slow growth in GDP during the first four years of the
Third Plan period was the slow expansion of exports. During 1968-71 export
earnings increased by only 5.6 percent per year compared with the Plan target
of 8 percent, and export volume grew at a disappointing rate of only 2.5 percent.
In 1972-74, however, the situation has been much improved due both to higher
prices for Ethiopia's traditional exports of coffee, hides and skins, oilseeds
and pulses, and to increases in the volume of exports (except coffee). Total
commodity exports increased from US$125 million in 1971 to US$167 million in
1972, US$240 million in 1973 and to US$305 million (estimated) in 1974, while
imports rose much more slowly, from US$188 million in 1971 to US$268 million
(estimated) in 1974. Largely as a result of these trade surpluses, net foreign
exchange reserves increased from US$51 million at the end of 1971 to US$300
million at the end of 1974.
21.       The medium-range balance of payments forecast for Ethiopia was
favorable until the recent increases in petroleum prices and the attendant
rises in the costs of fertilizers, chemicals, and other intermediate goods.
While it now appears that Ethiopia will be able to meet the added cost of
petroleum imports in the short run, despite an increase from about US$16-20
million in 1971 and 1972 to US$40 million in 1973 and to an estimated US$60
or US$70 million in 1974, in the longer run the terms of trade are likely to
turn sharply against her. The Bank's latest commodity price forecasts indicate
that Ethiopia's terms of trade index will decline from a base of 100 in 1974
to 80 in 1980. This substantial deterioration in the terms of trade, other
things equal, could produce a reversal of recent current account surpluses.
22.       Another cause of the disappointing growth of the Ethiopian economy
in recent years has been the failure to reach investment targets for both
the public and private sectors. The gross investment rate increased steadily
from 12 percent in 1961 to 14.4 percent in 1967, but since then has fallen
back to an average of 12 percent in 1970-72. Similarly, the share of domestic



-7-
savings in GDP increased from 11 percent in 1961 to 12.5 percent in 1968, but
has fallen below 12 percent in more recent years. Central Government capital
expenditures averaged only Eth$109 million a year over the six years of the
Third Plan (FY69-74) as compared with an initial plan objective of Eth$190
million per year. Despite this shortfall, however, the Government was able,
during the Plan period, to raise the level of investment spending from Eth$65
million in FY69 to Eth$130 million in FY73.
23.       Because of the low domestic savings capacity, the Government depends
heavily upon foreign borrowing to finance the public investment program.
Foreign loans and credits accounted for 33 percent of public capital expendi-
tures in FY69-74. However, annual gross public capital inflows have been only
about US$1.32 per capita over the past five years. Very few developing
countries receive so little aid on a per capita basis. Unlike many other
African countries which were formerly dependent, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial help. For this reason, a relatively high
level of assistance from the Bank Group is justified. The Bank/IDA share of
public capital inflows has increased from about 25 percent in 1962-65 to
35 percent in 1966-69 and to approximately 40 percent in 1970-73. In addi-
tion, to assist Ethiopia in obtaining additional external assistance, the
Bank has sponsored a Consultative Group of aid donors. The second meeting
of this Group, under the Bank's chairmanship, was held in July 1973.
24.       It must be recognized that Ethiopia has faced, and still faces,
serious constraints in manpower, resources and institutions. In certain
areas, such as education, foreign trade, tax collections and overall public
investment, significant progress has been made. Viable institutions have
been built up in the highways sector, power and telecommunications, and both
intensive and extensive agricultural development programs have been launched
successfully. A basis exists upon which the new Government can build an
accelerated development effort, with emphasis on the rural areas.    If such a
program is undertaken, a substantially increased volume of foreign assistance
will be needed. Because of Ethiopia's poverty, it is desirable that future
inflows should be provided to the greatest extent possible on concessionary
terms. Furthermore, it is appropriate that external donors should finance a
large proportion of the costs of projects, including local costs.
25.       Finally, a serious drought during 1972 and 1973 culminated in
famine conditions in large areas of Wollo and Tigre provinces in 1973 and
early 1974. It has not been possible to quantify accurately the economic
impact or the loss of life, but the effects have been unquestionably grave.
While rainfall during 1974 was adequate throughout most of the original
drought regions, it will require perhaps as long as three to five years for
agricultural production to return to pre-drought levels. The Bank Group is
assisting in the drought rehabilitation program through a US$10 million IDA
credit which was approved in June 1974.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
26.       From 1950 to the present, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has total-
led US$298 million, comprised of seventeen IDA credits totalling US$189 million
and twelve Bank loans totalling US$109 million. Additionally, the IFC has
made five commitments in Ethiopia totalling US$15.8 million. One-half of the
amount of lending (US$144 million) was committed in the last three years. In
addition to the substantial increase in the size of its operations in the last
three years, the Bank Group has softened its terms to Ethiopia; all but US$10.8
million of FY 72's US$49.5 million program and all of FY 73's US$53 million
and FY 74's US$43.4 million programs were IDA credits.
27.       Until the late 1960's, our help concentrated on assisting the
construction of trunk roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the
late 1960's, our program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education,
and in the past five years we have made ten credits for agricultural develop-
ment totalling lUS$82.3 million and two credits for education totalling US$19.5
million. In addition, in 1972 we made a US$17 million credit for transporta-
tion with emphasis on the construction of agricultural roads. This program
reflects the increased opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by
improved sectoral knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and edu-
cation in the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted
by the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RNEA), which has played a
major role in project identification and preparation in the agricultural
sector.
28.     implementation of Bank Group-financed projects is generally satisfactory.
Using the rate of credit disbursements as a measure of implementation, the
pattern of disbursement in Ethiopia falls within the norm of the Bank Group
as a whole. Implementation problems are generally concerned with delays in
effectiveness and in initiation of project works rather than with problems of
a technical nature. Delays in effectiveness have in the past been largely
caused by delays in parliamentary ratification, while delays in implementation
have been related to slowness in initiating and completing start-up activities,
such as the appointments of consultants and project staff and the issuance of
invitations to bid. Generally,once project staffs are mobilized and
initial activities are underway, implementation is good. We are faced however
with substantial cost overruns on three Bank Group-financed projects, the
Amibara Irrigation Project (Credit No. 418-ET), the Addis Ababa Water and
Sewage Project, (Loan No.818-ET), and the Fifth Highway Project, (Credit No.
332-ET). Additionally it appears that price escalations will necessitate cutbacks
and restructuring of other projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of February 28, 1975 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
9.        In addition to its lending program, the Bank is pursuing a number
of activities to support the Government's development strategy. As already
mentioned, a mission visited Ethiopia to make a comprehensive study of the



-9-
agricultural sector. The Bank is executing agency for the UNDP project to
help the Government in improving its planning, and the Bank has supplied
advisors in project identification and preparation to the Planning Commission
and the Ministry of Agriculture.
30.       Lending to Ethiopia increased during FY72-74, and further expansion
of the lending program is planned for the future if reasonable stability pre-
vails. Since the economy is essentially agricultural, and because agriculture
offers the greatest opportunities for development and for improving income
distribution and employment, the main thrust of our lending program will be
in that sector. A second sector of priority is the education sector where
the Government is planning major investments to make education more relevant
to development and more equitably available. Given the inadequate infra-
structure of the country, and the low level of foreign and domestic capital
available for investment, we shall also continue to provide some assistance
to the development of other sectors, and to investment in the infrastructure
which is necessary to support development. In order to relieve the constraint
caused by Ethiopia's limited capacity to prepare and implement projects,
especially in education and agriculture, we intend to continue providing
technical assistance in project preparation, and to help strengthen through
technical assistance the administrative capacity in the beneficiary institu-
tions so that they will be able to utilize larger flows of assistance. In
our lending for infrastructure, we plan to continue lending to such institu-
tions as the Ethiopian Highway Authority (EHA), the Ethiopian Board of Tele-
communications of Ethiopia (EBTE), and the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power
Authority (EELPA). These are institutions with which the Bank has worked for
some years and which now have substantial capacity for channeling resources
into development programs.
31.       We plan to present for your consideration in the next 18 months, a
fourth education project, the second tranche of the Telecommunications V
Project, and four, or five, agricultural projects. Several of the projects
will be follow-up projects and others will be breaking new ground. Included
in the first category will be the Third Livestock Project, follow-up credits
for the Coffee Processing Project and the second tranche of the Fifth Tele-
communications Project. Included in the second category are proposals for
a grain storage and marketing project, and an agricultural settlement project.
Because of institutional and policy changes in Ethiopia, some restructuring
of these projects has been necessary. Thus, completion of appraisals and
negotiations of some of these projects could be delayed somewhat. Before
presenting each of the above projects we shall take a careful look at the
prospects for implementation and the availability of local resources to
complement IDA assistance.
32.       During 1970-73, the Bank and IDA contributed 40.5 percent of gross
inflows of official loans. This share is expected to increase substantially
during the next few years as amounts disbursed under Bank loans and IDA
credits rise. As of December 31, 1974, the Bank/IDA share of total public



- 10 -
debt disbursed and outstanding was 40.8 percent and the Bank/IDA share of
total public debt service was 27.8 percent. Because of the relatively low
levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors, Bank Group debt out-
standing as a percent of outstanding external public debt is expected to rise
to 55-60 percent by 1980, and debt service payments to the Bank Group will
increase to approximately 40 percent of total public debt service by the
same year. However, the IBRD share of external public debt-outstanding and
disbursed will fall from 25 to 15 percent over this period. The debt service
ratio in 1973 was less than 8 percent and is likely to remain below 10 percent
in the 1980's.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
The Transportation System
33.       Lying between the heart of Africa and the ed Sea, Ethiopia has a
total land area of slightly more than 1.2 million km , almost twice the size
of Kenya. The country consists of a central highland mass with rugged moun-
tains and precipitous ravines surrounded by lowlands, some of which are barren
deserts. The extremely difficult topography, which in former times provided a
natural barrier to invasion, is today an obstacle to internal transportation,
communication and economic development.
34.       Ethiopia's transport facilities are poorly developed, and most of
the population is still remote from modern means of communication. The rail-
roads and some portions of the basic arterial road network were constructed
in the first half of the century, but efforts to develop a transportation
network date from World War II.
35.       Highways are the predominant mode of transportation and carry the
bulk of internal commerce as well as two-thitds of foreign trade. Imports
and exports move through the Red Sea ports of Assab and Massawa on the
Eritrean coast and Djibouti in the French territory of the Afars and Issas.
Ethiopia has two railways; the 790 km Franco-Ethiopia Railway (FER) joins
Addis Ababa and Djibouti, and the 306 km Northern Ethiopian Railway (NER)
links Massawa with Asmara and Akordat. Together these railroads carry one-
third of all imports and exports which account for about 50% of their freight;
the other 50% is accounted for by internal distribution of goods. As a result
of the development of improved port facilities at Assab, and the construction
of a new road link between that port and Addis Ababa, road transport has in
recent years made significant incursions on railroad traffic.
36.       An extensive internal air system serves the country and links the
administrative centers. International traffic is served by airports at
Addis Ababa and Asmara. Ethiopian Airlines (EAL) operates the domestic air
routes and carries about 60% of the international passenger traffic and 30%
of the freight.



- 11 -
37.       Some limited inland water transport is provided on lakes Tana,
Abaya and Chamo, and on the rivers Baro and Akobo. Lake Tana, currently
handling about 90% of the annual total of 35,000 passengers and 5,000 tons
of freight carried on the waterways, has shown slight increases in recent years
in both freight and tourist traffic due to a lack of roads in the area, partic-
ularly on its western bank.
The Highway Sector
38.       Nearly 90% of Ethiopia's population live on the highland plateau on
small farms that produce the bulk of national crop and cattle output. Despite
a favorable climate and adequate soils, agriculture is basically subsistence
in nature. Road coverage is only about 19 km per 1,000 km2, and 3/4 of the
rural population are more than 1/2 day's walk from a road. As a result, nearly
all farm surpluses move to market on pack animals. Farmers within a reasonable
walking distance transport their surpluses to market on donkeys or mules, and
the surplus from more isolated areas moves between farm and market in trader
caravans. Due to the high cost of such transport, farmers produce only the
small surplus which can be handled by this means, and do not exploit the full
potential of their land. Further, because of the lack of transport, the
majority of the farmers are not aware of and cannot receive the modern inputs
necessary for greater productivity. Thus if the bulk of the population who
work in the agricultural sector is to participate in development, the road
network must be expanded.
39.       The existing network (see map in Annex IV) is a skeletal arterial
system, often passing through very difficult terrain, connecting Addis Ababa
to Asmara in Eritrea and to the Port of Assab on the Red Sea, and radiating
from Addis Ababa to the provincial capitals and major markets, but failing to
reach the furthest extremes of the country. Almost no all-weather feeder roads
exist except in Eritrea and Shewa provinces. At present, the system comprises
23,000 km of roads; about 8,600 km of these are all-weather roads, of which
2,900 km are paved. The balance are dry-weather trails. The vehicle fleet
in 1972 was estimated at 53,000 units composed of cars (76%), trucks, pick-ups
and trailers (18%), and buses (6%), and has been growing at an annual rate
of 6.7%. The trucking industry, with approximately 4,250 trucks, is
extremely fragmented with intense competition and low freight rates, and
serves the country well.
40.       Major commodity movements on the system are a) the movement of
foodstuffs, mostly cereals, dairy products and hides and skins, to Addis Ababa
and Asmara and a return flow of clothing, shoes, textiles, construction
materials and other nationally produced goods from Addis Ababa to the interior;
b) the movements of such export crops as coffee, oilseeds, and pulses from
producing areas through Addis Ababa and Asmara to the ports; and c) the
movement of imported petroleum products, foodstuffs, machinery and raw
materials from the ports to Asmara and Addis Ababa for consumption and for
further distribution to the interior.



- 12 -
41.       Through the 1950's and 1960's, the Government concentrated on the
construction of the basic arterial road network. While extension of the
primary road system is still needed, priorities have shifted to the construc-
tion of secondary and penetration roads. The Government's present strategy
is to coordinate road construction with the expansion of its agricultural
extension program, so the construction of roads is accompanied by dissemena-
tion of new agricultural technology and the distribution of fertilizers and
improved seeds.
Administration
42.       The Ethiopian Highway Authority (ETIA) was created in 1951.  From
1951 until mid-1963, staff of the United States Bureau of Public Roads assisted
in management, but since 1963, Ethiopians have run the EHA. In recent years,
EHA has received further technical assistance under Bank-financed projects and
from bilateral donors, and has developed into a competent organization only
minimally dependent on foreign technical assistance.
Maintenance
43.       The road network is deteriorating partly because of overloading of
trucks, and partly because of poor maintenance. To assist EHA in building
a more adequate maintenance organization, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) financed two maintenance projects, one which
provided some urgently needed maintenance equipment, technical assistance and
training, and the other which financed a study of road maintenance requirements
based on a road condition inventory. The study, which was carried out by the
consultants, Frederick R. Harris Inc. (U.S.) and completed in July, 1973
recommends a five-year maintenance project.
Control of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions
44.       The Read Transport Administration (RTA) of the Ministry of Communi-
cations, Telecommunications and Posts (MCTP) has responsibility for implementing
legislation controlling vehicle weights and dimensions. The legislation for
the control of vehicle weights and dimensions is satisfactory in limiting axle-
loads to 8 metric tons. However, licensing regulations are ambiguous with
the result that vehicles designed for axle-loads in excess of eight tons are
licensed. Further, the RTA has neither the personnel nor the equipment to
enforce the regulations. As a result, there is considerable overloading
of vehicles causing extensive damage to roads. In the Fifth Highway Project,
the Government has covenanted to ensure that axle-loads of vehicles do not
exceed road-design capacities, but it has only recently moved to control this
situation. During negotiations the Government presented us with a satisfactory
program which includes 1) changing the licensing procedures and 2) procuring
additional equipment and personnel needed by RTA for the enforcement of vehicle
size and weight regulations (see Development Credit Agreement, Sec. 3.05).



- 13 -
Planning
45.       Consultants financed by the UNDP, with the Bank as executing agency,
prepared a general roads study for Ethiopia in 1972. This study included the
preparation of a 5-year investment program which forms the framework for the
planning currently being carried out by the Ethiopian Highway Authority. The
EHA has responsibility for preparing road development programs which are
submitted to the Planning Commission for final review prior to approval by
the Council of Ministers. In spite of this arrangement, coordination is weak,
and the Government is considering a recommendation to establish an inter-agency
transportation and communications coordinating committee. The EHA capacity
to undertake economic analysis and plan road development has been much improved
in recent years and the EHA prepared both the Fifth Project and the proposed
project.
Financing
46.       Financing for both operating costs and capital investment is pro-
vided through the National Budget. Capital expenditures have been increasing
steadily over the past five years rising from Eth$13.6 million or 21% of
the total capital budget in 1967 to Eth$40.9 million or 32.5% of the capital
budget in 1972. While the total capital budget has doubled during this period,
the capital expenditure for roads has tripled. Approximately half of the
capital budget is financed from foreign assistance and half from Government
resources. Given the fact that transportation is a primary constraint to
increasing agricultural productivity and production, this pattern of expendi-
tures for roads will need to be continued.
Construction
47.       Foreign contractors have in the past executed most major highway
construction, while the EHA has carried out smaller works, notably bridge
construction/re-construction and gravelling and construction of some major
roads by force account. The local construction industry is developing. To
encourage the local construction industry, the credit for the Fifth Highway
Project provided funds through the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank for subloans to local contractors for the procurement of equipment. It
also provided funds for training contractors' staff in construction organi-
zation and bidding procedures. The Government has also encouraged foreign
contractors to establish subsidiaries in Ethiopia. Of the four contracts
thus far awarded under the Fifth Highway Project, one was awarded to a
construction firm wholly owned and managed by Ethiopian nationals, which has
taken advantage of a subloan from the AIDB, and the other three by local
subsidiaries of foreign contractors. Supervision of construction was pre-
viously done almost entirely by expatriate consulting firms, but under the
Fourth Highway Project, EHA staff satisfactorily supervised the construction
of two road-surfacing contracts, and additional staff was trained by expatriate
consultants on two other construction contracts. The use of EHA supervisory



- 14 -
staff was expanded under the Fifth Highway Project with one expatriate engi-
neer assigned to each road contract, and the remaining staff provided by the
EHA. These same arrangements will be used under the proposed project.
Engineering
48.       The Design Division of EHA has grown increasingly competent and is
carrying out an increasing amount of road design work. However, consultants
still perform some design work and supervise the preparation of bidding
documents. Design standards are generally satisfactory as are specifications.
Unfortunately, there is little geo-technical information available on the
characteristics of soil and road materials. The EHA has recently, however,
entered into an agreement with the Transport and Road Research Laboratory
of United Kingdom to carry out a comprehensive program for a) preparing a
country-wide inventory of engineering materials and b) relating EHA design
procedures to local conditions of climate, terrain, and materials. This
program is being financed by the Overseas Development Ministry (ODM).
Bank Group Role
49.       Since 1950 the Bank Group has financed five highway projects in
Ethiopia with loans and credits totalling US$71.7 million. Under the
first four projects, all satisfactorily completed, a total of about 1,480
km of primary and secondary roads have been constructed, 970 km have been
paved, and considerable support has been given to developing the capacity
of the EHA to plan, develop and maintain the country's main road network.
Bank Group activities have been complemented by bilateral aid from USAID,
which has also rendered considerable technical assistance to the EHA, the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), the Federal Republic of
Germany, the People's Republic of China, and ODM.
50.       With the extension and upgrading of the main road network well under
way, emphasis has gradually shifted to the construction of secondary and
penetration roads. Also, some 3,500 km of low-class feeder roads, some of
which are dry-weather tracks, are being constructed or are planned for con-
struction under Bank Group-financed agricultural projects. In addition, the
recent Fifth Highway Project (Credit 332-ET, 1972) includes the construction
of four gravel-surfaced agricultural roads.
51.       At present the highest priorities in the road sector are, first, the
maintenance of the existing road network and secondly, the construction of roads
to link rural areas to the existing road network. The proposed project would
address both of these priorities.



- 15-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Sixth Highway Project - Ethiopia"
(No. 599a-ET) is being circulated separately. A Credit and Project Summary is
provided in Annex III. The Project was appraised in the field in February
1974. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in Washington in
March 1975. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Teferra Wolde-Semait,
Head, Finance, Credit and Investment Department, and Acting Head, Budget
and Financial Management Department, Ministry of Finance of Ethiopia.
Project Description
53.       The proposed project comprises:
(i)  the construction of four roads, totaling 397 km, into
agricultural areas now inadequately linked to the road
network (see map in Annex IV);
(ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment for EHA;
(iii) provision of staff training to EHA;
(iv) procurement and installation of weighbridges for and
provision of technical assistance to the Road Transport
Administration (RTA);
(v) establishment of an organization to plan, construct,
and maintain rural roads; and,
(vi) continuation of the program, established under the Fifth
Highway Project, to provide credit to local road con-
tractors for the procurement of construction equipment.
Construction
54.       All-weather, gravel-surfaced roads would be constructed to replace
the existing dry-weather tracks between Sodo and the Bulki/Bako Junction
(108 km) in the south, between Nekemte and Bedele (105 km) in the west, between
Dejen and Mota (104 km) in the north central region, and to replace an existing
pack animal track between Bonga and Mizan/Teferri (80 km) in the southwest
(see map in Annex IV). These roads are now passable only in the dry season
and then only with great difficulty. These roads would pass through areas
of considerable agricultural potential where the Government is establishing
agricultural extension programs.



- 16 -
55.       Two of the above roads (the Dejen-Mota and the Bonga-Mizan/Teferri)
were originally included in the Fifth Highway Project. Bid prices, net of taxes,
for the six roads in the Fifth Project were 60 percent higher than the cost
estimate at appraisal in November 1971. Notwithstanding this increase, all
six roads remain economically justified. The funds allocated from the Fifth
Highway Credit for these roads were intended to cover 75 percent of the total
cost net of taxes. However, because of the cost increases, the amount of
that credit is no longer adequate to finance this proportion of costs. Further,
the Government, handicapped by the general level of poverty and the severe
drought of 1970-73, is unable to finance the total cost overrun and also carry
out other existing and planned development projects. Therefore, construction
under the Sixth Highway Project, as originally envisioned, was cut back and
these roads, the Dejen-Mota and the Bonga-Mizan/Teferri, have been transferred
from the Fifth Highway Project to the proposed project. This would be
accomplished through a provision in the draft credit agreement (Sec. 5.05)
which amends the Fifth Highway Project by deleting these two roads.
Maintenance
56.       Much of the Ethiopian road network has deteriorated significantly
due to overloading of vehicles and inadequate maintenance. The USAID financed
road maintenance study (para. 34) determined that 60 percent of the existing
EHA equipment could no longer be used economically and recommended a re-
equipment program for the period 1973-78. Financing has been arranged for
a three-year US$16.6 million program. USAID and ODM have already financed
equipment in the amount of US$2 million and US$1.2 million respectively, and
delivery is expected shortly. USAID has agreed to transfer an amount of
US$6.8 million previously committed to road construction to the procurement
of maintenance equipment. The proposed credit would provide US$4.5 million
and the Government will finance the balance.
Staff Training for EHA
57.       Provision is made under this project for the training of instructors
of EHA's training center and for training of staff in the following areas:
(a) computer programming; (b) aerial photogrammetry; (c) manpower and career
development; (d) organization and methods; (e) systems analysis; (f) equipment
and supply management; and (g) cost control and auditing.
Assistance for the Road Transport Administration
58.       Under the Project, five weighbridges would be procured and installed
at the locations shown on the map in Annex IV. In addition the services of
a transport analyst would be provided to the RTA to assist in collecting and
analyzing data necessary to establish policies concerning the road transport
industry. During negotiations we agreed with the Government on a program for
the installation of weighbridges at key points in the road network and for the
assignment of staff to operate them. Also, the Government informed us of its



- 17 -
plans to revise the existing vehicle licensing procedures to facilitate
enforcement of vehicle axle-loads, and agreed to enforce vehicle size and
weight legislation (Development Credit Agreement, Sec. 3.05).
Establishment of Rural Roads Organization
59.       Lower class rural roads are being constructed under agricultural
development projects and drought rehabilitation projects financed by external
assistance. In addition, some road construction financed through voluntary
local contributions of money and labor is being carried out by local
authorities. While the externally financed projects include the equipment
and technical expertise necessary to construct the roads, there is presently
no program to provide the necessary technical and material assistance to
plan, and support and/or mobilize provincial and district efforts to build
and maintain rural roads. The Government, under the Fifth Highway Project,
established a Rural Road Task Force to determine the organizational and
resource requirements to support a nationwide program of rural road construc-
tion and maintenance. The Rural Road Task Force is in the process of contract-
ing consultants who will undertake a province-by-province study of the techni-
cal and material requirements and resources available for the construction of
rural roads, and will recommend a suitable organizational framework for the
execution of a nationally supported rural roads program. To assist the
Government in the initial steps of establishing such a program, 8 man-years
of technical assistance, comprised of four construction supervisors, who would
provide on-the-job training in rural road construction and maintenance, and
the procurement of district workshop and maintenance equipment have been
previously included in the project. The specific requirements will be
identified in due course by the Rural Road Task Force and agreed with the
Association.
Equipment Loans to Contractors
60.       Under the Fifth Highway Project the Government established a program
of subloans, for the procurement of construction equipment, to local contractors
submitting successful bids for road works. US$1.5 million of the proceeds
under the Fifth Highway Credit were allocated for this purpose and have been
committed. In response to the Government's request we have therefore included
additional financing for this program under the proposed credit. The contract
for the Dejen-Mota Road, now included in this project, was recently awarded to
an Ethiopian contractor following international competitive bidding under the
Fifth Highway Project. The Government has advised us that these funds would
be relent to that contractor, who meets the criteria for a subloan under
the program.
Project Costs
61.       The total cost of the project exclusive of taxes is estimated at
US$46.3 million with a foreign exchange component of about US$32 million. A
summary of cost estimates is contained in Annex III. The proposed credit



- 18 -
would finance the foreign exchange component or about 69% of project costs,
net of taxes. For construction, price contingencies were calculated to cover
cost increases at the following estimated rates: 16% for 1975; 14% for 1976;
and, 12% for 1977. For the procurement of highway maintenance equipment,
price contingencies were estimated at 25% from December of 1974 through time
of delivery in 1975 and early 1976.
Prospects for Implementation
62.       Prospects for implementation of this project are satisfactory.    The
Ethiopian Highway Authority is a well staffed, effective agency; its personnel,
aside from top management, remairn the same. The new management appointed
by the Government is stronger than the former management and has improved
operations through decentralization and assignment of personnel to the district
level. While the possibility exists that foreign contractors may be somewhat
reluctant to bid on the project because of recent political events, this
reluctance should be alleviated by the fact that the construction would not
be located in or near Eritrea, the fact that other construction projects in
the country have continued without interference, and by the availability of
Bank Group financing. Further, local contractors and local subsidiaries of
foreign contractors would have the capacity to execute the construction work.
In bidding which took place last November for two roads under the Fifth Project,
three bids were offered, two by Ethiopian contractors and one by the local
subsidiary of a foreign contractor.
Project Execution
63.       EHA would execute all components of the project except (i) the rural
roads organization component which would be executed by the Rural Road Task
Force; (ii) the procurement and installation of weighbridges component would
be executed by the Road Transport Administration (RTA); and (iii) the con-
tractor equipment loan component which would be carried out by the Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank; for this last component, the Government
would onlend US$2.0 million equivalent of credit proceeds to the AIDB at 8.5
percent per annum. The AIDB would make the subloan to the contractor at a
minimum interest rate of not less than 9.5 percent nor more than 10 percent
for a term equal to the life of the equipment.
64.       Construction of three of the four roads would be carried out by
private contractors selected through international competitive bidding, under
Bank/IDA Guidelines. A fourth road (Bonga-Mizan/Teferri) was twice offered
for bid under the Fifth High;way Project. Under the first offering, the one bid
received was unacceptable, and under the second offering, no bid was received.
The lack of contractor interest in the road results from high mobilization
costs associated with the remote location and an exceptionally long rainy
season in the area. It is therefore proposed that this road be constructed
by force account. We have agreed with EHA that it would hire experienced
supervisory personnel, satisfactory to the Association, to manage the construc-
tion (Project Agreement, Schedule 1, Part A.8). Construction of this road is



- 19 -
expected to commence in mid-1975 and be completed by the end of 1977.
A contract for the construction of the Dejen-Mota Road has been awarded
under the Fifth Highway Project after international competition and
construction should start soon and be completed by the end of 1977.
Contracts for the construction of the remaining two roads should be awarded
by mid-1975, and construction should be completed by early 1978. Consulting
engineers would be assisted by EHA staff in supervision of construction.
Procurement
65.       Contracts for road construction would be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines except for the
road to be constructed by force account (see para. 67 below) and the road
already contracted. Ethiopian contractors would be invited to bid and may,
at the Government's option, be granted a 7.5% preference in the evaluation
of bids. The road maintenance equipment for EHA and the rural roads maintenance
and workshop equipment would be procured after international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except
that for contracts of $10,000 or less, goods would be procured under Govern-
ment's procedures which are satisfactory. Local manufacturers will be eligi-
ble to compete for the supply of items which are or can be manufactured locally;
these manufacturers would in the evaluation of bids receive a preference up
to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods, in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines, Supervising consultants and technical assistance experts would
be employed under terms of reference and conditions to be approved by the
Association. Because of the advanced state of preparation, retroactive
financing in the amount of US$950,000 would be required to finance construc-
tion costs incurred after March 15, 1975.
Disbursement
66.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:
a) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of highway maintenance and
workshop equipment, weighbridges and equipment purchased
under contractor loans;
b) 100% of the foreign costs of technical assistance and training;
c) 55% of total expenditures on road construction contracts;
d) 47% of total expenditures on force account construction; and,
e) 55% of the total costs of supervision of road construction.
The credit would be disbursed over approximately three years after effectiveness.



- 20 -
Benefits
67.       We estimate that the zone of influence for the roads to be constructed
should be 10 km on each side. The benefits from road construction would be
(1) additional agricultural production resulting from increased areas to be
brought under cultivation in response to the availability of economic transport,
and (2) decreased transport costs for normal traffic. Increased agricultural
productivity will be achieved through the Government's Agricultural Minimum
Package Program, a program of extension services, credit, fertilizer, and seed
that has already been established in several locations on the existing tracks,
and that would be expanded during the project period. It is estimated that the
net value of the increased agricultural surplus plus savings in transport costs
would result in an economic rate of return of 15% on the road from Sodo to the
Bulki/Bako Junction, 12% on the Nekemte-Bedele Road, 16% on the Dejen-Mota Road
(versus 22% estimated under the Fifth Project, and before recent cost increases)
and 18% on the Bonga-Mizan/Teferri Road (versus 22% estimated under the Fifth
Project and before the recent cost increases). The principal benefits expected
to accrue as a result of the maintenance component are savings in vehicle
operating costs for existing and projected traffic. The rate of return of this
component would be 24%.
V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The drafts of the Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Project Agreement between EHA and the Association, the report
of the committee provided for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed Development Credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       The draft agreements follow the normal pattern of agreements for
Highway Sector lending incorporating the special features outlined in earlier
paragraphs of this report.
70.       Conditions of Effectiveness include the execution and delivery of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank setting forth the procedures for the implementation of the
subloan for the procurement of contractor construction equipment.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
April 1, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1
CODVTRY DATA- E&r.LIPlA
2RIU                                             POPULATION                                 DElSI?T
1,221,900 kl                                     233      mlion (mid-1972)                              Per hlf arabl. lind
SOCIAL IND_ICATOhS
Eth iRefCrenzoI triop
OW 0 SR CAPITA US3 (AomS BASIS) /                                ,            80 /             80 L       120 /Y       170 Zj
M--rth rate (par thou.saod)                                             46o                                       1.W  9  8 /L.
Crude death rate pPmr thouand)                                             42565                                      18 14
Infnt mortality rate (per thousand li  birth.)                84 /c.d     .                .            94           55
Life  actacy    t birth (yeor.)                                             39               40          48           48 /-b.a
Population groth rate ,                                       1.6          2.2 b            2.4a        28           3.42 ?a
Population growth rate - urban                                  S If         5                            5            7 /.h-
Age tructurn (parcent)
0-1i,                                                                    45              146          45           48Ak
15-64.                                                                    5171.1           52          52           L8 7;
65 nd oer                                                                  4 1 i            2           3            4.7;
De, ,dancy ratio A                                                         1.1 7ii          0.9 /o      0.9 /o       1.2 77IE
Urban popolitlo  as peroaot of total                           6 If         9If                         12           10 /ik
F'ily pl nning, NM of -ccptore -muelati-e (thou.) 
No. of users (% of married  wan)
MPLOIW  NT
--F.obr       force (tho.sands)                               9,700 /.    11,300 /a         1,000 /q    7,400        5,100/k
Poentag    ep]oed in agriculture                             88 7;        85 7;            80         .             90 41P
Percentag  uoployOd                                                      .                 20 7;
uNoDIsThlaurIc*
Perornt of national boom. rece.ved by higheot 5%
Peroent of natio'ul inoom  re.oi,ed by highest 20%
Perornt of oti.onl ioo..  reOei-ed by lowet 20%
Percent of naOtional inc    received by lo-oat L0%                           ..          ..
MSTRlIBTION OF LAND OAh  SHIP
X owsmd by top 10% or o  rs
% -aned by .ll..t 10% of o-nera
8YALTH AND IUIITION
Population per pheyeia.                                                 74,550           21,140      15,940        7,830 /a
Population per nozaing pereon                                           24,040            3,J,        1 540 /t     1,710 7T;
Population par hospital bed                                 3,OUO /w     3,030              570      1i0o0 7;        770
Per capita calorie  upply on % of requiranente /S              77 /y        81               72 IA       85 /I        90
P., capita protein eupply, total (grass par dayY1              h3 7i        66               57 7i       59 7s        68
Of eRich, animal nd pulo.                                    24 /5        25               27 7;       214 7i       29
Death rate 1- years /7
*DD~CATION
1%.r d     9 P,i=acY school eerollseci ratio                      8           16 /k            10          25 /k        67
Adjusted           , eeconiry ,hool enroll,ot ratio             1            4 7;             4           9 7          9
Year, of sohoollog provided, first .nd second level            12           12               12          12           13
Vocational erolleent an S of sec. school e.collant            20            5 /k              l/b        1 lk         2
Adult literacy rate 1                                                        7 7.ac.d         57T,a   d 19 7d         30  1&
No. of pr son, per room, (crb.n)                      2 7/vas       .                           2.5 /t
Perceat of occupied cIts tithout pipod water                   26 7w       ..                            36 7;F.
Aceesa to electricity (a, % of tortul popolatio)               58 t        .. .             .            10
ftroent of tur-l popul.tico  nonocota n. electricity
co   Iasuwc
R dio recrieers par 1000 population                             4,/^f        6               18          12 /Q        48 /e.k
Paseengr care par 1000 population                               1/c          1/k              3/o         2            8
Electric pow,r consoption (khh p.c.)                            6 7;        20                7          25           67
tobeprint consumption p.c. kg par year                                    0.02              0.6         0.2          O.5
otea, Figuree ref-r either to the lateet periods or to            acount of -neiromotl ttampireEr, body weIghts, and
thm I,t.t yeart .  Loteot periode refer in priociple to          dietriobtion by age and  s  of national populati-8.
the  ear. 1956-6S or 1966-70, the l.teot year, in prin-       /6  Protein et.odarda (requir-meoto) for .11 sountrie  an estab-
ciple to 1960 ond 1970.                                           liahod by USDA Essnonlic Reeaerch Service provide for a eiiea
/I The Per oCpit. lNP .eticatv I at naroct pricc- far             allowanc  of 60 gram. of total pro:ti. per day, and 20 gras of
y,a-o other thon 140, caicolated by the -ane co-.ereio        aniral and pule protain, of which 10 grasa should be aItel
techolqoe a, tih 1972 World bank Atle.                        protein   Thee. atndda    re - o&.-.h.' lower thn those of 75
12 Averagge nunbr of daughter, per -nn of reproductive            gr    of totl protein cod 23 grr-  Of aoi-al protein *a an
age.                                                           -erage for the world, propoaed by FAO in the Third World Food
/   Population gecuth rates ccv for the decadee eoding in         Survey
196) end 1970.                                            /7 Sone   tudLe  ha.e aggested that crude death rate. of childrma
ai Ratio of under 15 end 65 s.d over age brackete to              agea I through 4 n.y be uced ae a firet approoittic  indea of
the.. in labor force br-cket of ogee 15 through 64.            malaoltrition.
F YAO reference otnndardc reprne-ct physiological e-          /8  Perctage enrolled of sorreepording population of school age
qaire-ntrs for o-rel octioity and he.lth, taeWdg             an defined for each oeuntry.
a    19y7y;        Ab 1965-7oe  /e 1963, /d Estimate based en fiet, roed of then Natonal 5aaple 3S,r,ey; I. ystimate;
77  r'bs I.Paiatie, defined aa Addle AbaE;, kAmmra, twne aod amarket center.; ~& SixtY-.eight, towns;  A~ M~2..69;
7T   2,000  r erer inhabitant;   a l17; Ac 1969; A      15-59 yes,,e; /I 60 yeara ad    -ar;  /n Notis of population under
15 and 60 and a..er Wte ital labor fom;e7 /o RatrI af popu.lation Mder 15 and 65 and seraabrackets to those in
15-61. aCe brackat; /P Labor force. ia age 7racket 15-59; /q 1968; /r Urban onlY; /. Number an the regiater; not all
erhkig in the sountry;   /t Includea midwIvss ;  /u NJgi,terI d o.reUa only;              v   o1 t     i;rtdr;   materit
oeapita  beds;  /x Govrment only;   /V 1961-63);/z 1964-66;   /at  IJ.N. ctirnte;
/ab  Fuloda private vecational echools;   /o Over 1S Airs;    /ad De.  ition unknow,n;  /ae Addia Aba_ only; /    P
of dwellbnga srth alactrical1 lighting;, _/7  19'59  /ah19ZW 7la                                               Prcntg
aKenYa baa heen eatd      emsb3ectlve co,,,try baaacas it is a nIgh6oring developing country eeemewiat furthes op
th   ncow    a aal than Ethiopia with eiillrr ecological condition..
R3   Septenber 23, 1974



~~HIOPIA ~~~~~Annex I
20N   HIOJe.EPIAE  mAPage?2
(AnouN21nmIll0 e ofU.S. dol-larsI
Aq%461,                      ProJected             19 60.  1%3      19 70.    1975-
NLATIONAL 1ACC                             197U                          R I I 76~          19658    19 a 0  19 75     aj-        8~~.z 
Gross DDmeaic PraductAt 1967-1969 Pries. & Exohangs RAtes                           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of OWY
Grons   eomTeatic Pdut.         1337.1    1651.2   1875.3    .1950.3    2127.7  2586.3      5.1     4.3       4.3      4.9     140.0     9R*
9!4mTeo~~f Trade              is       22.8     29          J       -60      2~                                               .:     1.4    1.03:1
Gross meestic     amS9                    17r       9I        1931.0    2071.7  2491.0      5.4      4.3      3.5      4.6     100.0-   100.0   100.0o
Import (mnci. APB)               197.0    205.4    234.9       244.3    266.5    324.0     11.5     0.7       4.4      4.9      10.0.    12.3   13.0
Exports  "  (iwort canaeitu)  ~~  ~   ~fl~7   -Zj§6     -48.2    24,       11.8      0.9      7.1      2.1      ..L.2    .W.    U..
Resource Gap             ~~~~~28.5  29.4   -57.8      -12.3      18.3    49.5      29.0     0.6       .         .        0.8     1.6     2.0
Consumption bcpindtures         1222.9   1470.6    1583.0     1693.6   1809.3   2171.0      5.7     3.8       3.3      4.4      89. 1    87.8   87.2
lavestaent      (ioel. stocks)   1g1.s    232.7    264,3       225.0    280.7    369.3      3.8     7.6       1.6      8.0      11.7    13.9    14.8
Domestic savings                 133.0    263.4    322.1       237.4    262.4    320.0      3.2     0.9       3.8      5.6      10.9     12.2   12. 8
National Savings                 143.2    203.6     327.0      238.6    261.5    314.6      4.7      7.3      3.6      5.2      10.9     12.2   12.6
MERhCHANDISE ThAPE96                       Arnual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
ti.portJ                          :6      ____     19686   9     70     1971     1972                                         1968     197    1972
Capital goods      48.6     72.9     51.7       56.9      64.0    72.7                                           42.1    33.2    38.5
Intermadiat.fgooss        30.8     38.5      33.5       39.4     43.4     39.6                                          2,        30    2.
usols snd related matoWis                                                                                                    2,       30    2.
of vhidch:  Petrolsim        12.6     .18      1.3          3.
S.t          $0.9   .10.8     1.3L       1.5LZ     1i7.7  iLl                                              Al.       l
(air)        173.0    .155.3      171.6    187.8    189.1                                         100.0    100.0  100.0
Exports
raimry Product.. 6=l. fuel)   99.      102.6    114.9      114.6     119.7   159.0                                           96.4    937     5.
.?oale and related materials937                                                                                                               58
of which:  Petroleum                   0.7      1.2         1.4      2.0      1.5                                                           n
"anufactu ad god                1.2      3.__LI.J.j                                                                                    .
-1 arh.  pots(fob)     101.1    106.4    119-.2      122.3    123.6   166.8                                          1.L.i   10.0    10...i;
Tourism and Porder. Trade
Avereas 1967-6A.. 100
M4erchandise Trade Indices      AMj       1979     1973         1974    17      1980
Export Price Index            109.0    126.5    136.4        151.6   146.3   166.1        3.1     3.0      3.0       2.5
Import Price Index             92.7    102.4    116.6       163.0    181.8   223.8      -0.3      2.0     12.0       5.4
:erms of TraLde Index        117.6     123.5    117,0        93.0     61.6    74.2        3.3     1.0     -7.1      -2.8
Lxpvrts Volume Index           97.7     88.8    161.6        169.7   178.2   216.6        6.3    -1.9     14.9       3.0
VAMJ ADDED BY SECTOR         .      tulD    aat1    cog                                       AverageAnalGot Rates              As Percent of Total
imal      196=3/t4 1 L.6      167/66    1969/70  19 71                166-91/21960/61 '1965166 1                    _71/ 7j
;,gricultu're                .1504.5   1608.9   1664.4     1754.2    1833.3   1936.8                    2.3                    64.5     57.0     51.5
:r,dustry and 1M11uing        266.6    358.9    439.8       300.9    541.1     621.0                    7.3                    12.3     14.8    16.5
Service                     _~JU~       8-.     _U2_      __LtJ.    1071JJ  IZJ4-1                      7.6                    23.2     28.2    32.0
Total                        2332.1    2652.3   2955.9     3200.0    3445.5   3761.9                      .                   100.0    100.0    1"10.0
PUB--C FINANCE                  1967/66  1968169   1969/70    1970/71   1971/72  1972/73             1967/68-1972/73              As Percent of GDP
(C.rtral Government)                                                                                                            1967/68  19710/71  1972/73
C-.urent Receipts             367.6     396.6    429.1      466.0    494.7     560.0                    8.8                    9.6      9.1      10.5
C-2rrent Exenditures 8                 _UM      HAQ        !i2.      AILA     A"L.                    J.AI                   2...L.    L8.9
PijigetarySavings              22.4     34.6     45.1        60.5     60.3      66.2                   30.9                   0.6       I.'      1.6
Qthex Pablic Sector              -             -         -     -        . 
?-ublic Sector Investment      71.5     64.7     52.0       111.5    12.5.9    128.9                   12.5.                   1.9      2.4      2.4
US $mililion
CR?234T EE?IMITURE DETAILS                Actual             r               Proi.        EMILh Co                              At ed 199       and ER
As % Total Currcnt E-xpend.)        Inl2LZl   *)flfl     511~              1973174      P/LIC SECTR                       T-hird Plan    % of Ttal 
Iducatien                            19.0        19.7       21.0             21.4       TNvxST9e2r PROGRAM                 (1968 /69   -1.972 /73)L.
Zther Social Services                 7.2         7.0        7.5              8.3       SoialjSectors                         46.6        22.3
Agriculture                           2.8         2.9        2.8              3.2       Agriculture                            25.3       12.1
Zther Economic Services               8.8        8.1         8.7    .         9.5       Industry and ?Mning                    24.5       11.7
Administration and Defense           53.6        53.0       50.7             46.6       Power 
Cttbe                                 8.6       9Id          9.3             11.        Transport end coinmications            83.5       39.9
T,tal Current Expenditures          lD10.0     100.0       100.0            100.0       Other                                 Z2L.        ILL
_____________________________________________________________________ Total   Expe rd dturr s            2209.2      100.
ItETDINDICATORS                              1960-     1965-    1970-    1974-       FrnAZiDa
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1965       1970     1975    1978
Average ICOR                                     TM~        TM       2m       TM1            public S.~ctor Savings              73.8       42.2
Im~port Elasticity                               2.68      0.31      1.05    1.00            Program aid counterpart 
RMrginal Ibmestic Savings Rats                   0.07      0.20      0.13    0.08            Foreign Project Aid               UL           57.8
M4arginal National Savings Rate                  0.08       0.18     0.13     0.09           Total Financing                    175.0      100.0
LA.?CR FORCE AND             .         -     Total Labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worker (19   -      Prices & ExC. Rates)
O,r7i'JT PEE WORKER              In Millions                        i.19      -           In U.S.IDolara      Percent of Average-       19o
~~* I~~       ~j, 0=T t           Growth Rate         19         19         L9 _                 Growth Rate
Agriculture                    .            .      .          ..                            .        .
-Industry                       ..                  .    .   ...                                      .
Service                                             ---                                                                 
Total
not applicable        -nii or negligible
not available        ..less than balf the
snalleat unit showm



ETHIOPIA
BALANCE OF PAIDKrS, S7t. ASSIBTANGE AND DENT
(amounta in millionse of U.S. dolars at current prices)  ;
Avg. Aa
Actual                       stimte                                   reted                                   Growth Rate
1971       1972       1973         19 74        L975       1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1970-1980
SDNEABY BAIANE OF PAIITS
Ssorts (tnci. NF)                     180.3      190.2      246.8      341.2       418.3         425.6      451.2      482.3       515.9      575.8       614.2       13.0
s(nl  )210.4  232.1   236.7       273.8       398.2        438.3      484.5       534.8      591.2       654.7      725.0       13.2
R0 1". 4 M;. eso 1) - M-urce B                               aae -        -30.1                         41. I7   -1       Z6-5Z .  7        7         -110.8       13.9
Interest (net)                         -1.5       -4.5       -6.1       -3.1         3.0           2.6        1.3       -0.1        -2.0       -3.9       -6.6        16.0
Direct Invbtment Ineme                '-6.2       -7.2      -13.1      -16.8       -21.0         -22.1      -23.2      -24.3       -25.5      -26.8       -28.1       16.3
Workers' Remittae-                                  -          -          -            -            -          -           -          -          -           -          -
Current Transfers (Mt)                 8.0         9.0       17.7       25.5         20.0         20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0       20.0        20.0        9.6
Balance on Current Aecount             29.8      -44.6    7   8.6              25.1                                   -3r5                       9 I                  15.5
Private Direct Investent                3.9        5.7        9.7       30.8         10.5         11.0       11.6        12.2       12.8       13.4        14.1       13.7
official Capital Grants                             -          -          -            -                                        -                 -          -       '
Public MhLT Loans
Disbursements                        27.4       44.3       33.0        36.9        73.3           .          .           .          .
-R     ots                           -14.8      -13.1      -13.1      -13.1        -12.3
Not% Dibusents            ;           1.2 b.6
Other !LT Loans
Disburnsements                        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
-Re    ent                             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Ne,.tqffsnw sement9                     07 o o     o o                                            - u                                           -          -
Actma I                   stimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.            14.1        0.9      -11.6       -56.1          -                                     1970     1V71      1972     197         1974
Charge in Net Reserves                  0.8        6.8        26.6      -71.5        93.6       MEMB AND DEBT SERVIt:
Peblo Debt Out. & MLlba sd   169.0     204.9    226.9    256.5       303.8
DEJLNT AND LOAN COMM!SNTS
Official Grants & Grant-me             11.4        11.3       14.9       14.2                     Mnterest cn Pblic Dabt       6.2       7.0      8.1      8.9         8.7
Rspqyents on Public Debt.    14.8     13.2      13.3    13.0         12.4
Public MYIT Loans                                                                                 Total Public Debt Serrice   21.0      20.2     21.4     21.9        2L1
IBRD                                              -         10.8         -                      Other Debt Service (net)      -         -        -        -           -
IDA                                   3.1        13.9       34.3       53.0                     Total Debt Service (net)    21.0      20.2     21.4     21.9        21.1
Other
Other lultilateral                     -           -          -          -                    Burden on Export xrndngs (Oi
Governments                           8.6        26.9       17.3       26.7
Suppliers                             1.3  .      0.7         -         0.1                     Public. Debt Service         11.6     10.6       8.7     6.4          5.0
Financial Institutions                3.0         5.0         -         6.0                     Totvl Debt Service           11.6     10.6       8.7     6.4          5.0
Bonds                                  -           -          -          -                      TDS+flrect Invest. Inc.      15.1     14.4      14.0    11.3         10.1
Public Loans n.e.i.
Total Public MM4I2 ILoal                                      b85                               Average Terms of Public Debt
ActualW Debt OutBatAiing l.i De. 31.1973                D It. ae % Prior Year D)&D   4.0        4.1      4.0      3.9         3.4
__T___AL_DM                                 Disbursed Only            Percent                       Amaort. as % Prior Tom. fD&D  9.5      7.8'      6.5     5.7          4.8
World BaNk                             .        M
IDA45.5                                                               17.7                      IMD Debt Out. & Disbursed     47.4      57.1      64.2     67.4        69.0
Other 28ltilateral                               -                      -                            as % Publie Debt O&D     28.0       27.9     28.3     26:3        22.7
Gover7ments                                   112.6                   43.9                           as % Public Debt Service  27.1      28.7     29.0     34.2        35.8
Suppliers                                       1.2                    0.5
Fitnanial Institutimss                         29.8                   11.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed     22.7       26.4     33.2 .   45.5        60.7
Bonds                                                                                           I" as % Public Debt O&D       13.4       12.9     14.6     17.7        20.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                                                               9 as % Pablic Debt Servie     0.7        0.9      1.3      2.3          2.3
Total Public 1.3 Debt                                                                               a       ic1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (diab. only)
not applicable                                              a staff estiate
not available                                               - nil or negligible                                                                                         03 :
not available sinrtely                                     --less than half the                                                                                         (D 
but included Iii total                                         smallest unit showii



ANNEX I
Page 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Disbursements by Source, 1962-1973
(US $ millions)
Total                                                      Percentages
1962
to                                                     1962-  1966- 1970-
1965   1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973   1965    1969   1973
IBRD              14.3    7.8   6.4   4.8   6.8   5.6  12.5   9.4   6.o   17.7    24.6   25.6
IDA                5.8    2.7   2.6   4.1   4.4   2.8   3.7   4.5   8.6    7.2   13.2   15.0
USA               43.4    5.2   4.6   9.3   7.8   5.7  15.7   9.5  10.6    53.7   25.7   31.7
USSR               5.9    3.7   3.8   1.8   0.7    -    0.3    -     -      7.3    9.5    0.2
Germany            3.4     -    2.0   0.2   0.6   1.4   3.8   3.8   3.8    4.2     2.7    9.8
Sweden             0.8     -     -     -    1.6   1.0   1.9   2.0   1.4    1.0     1.5    hs.8
Italy              0.7     -    1.1   4.3   5.0   2.0   4.3   0.7    -     0.9     9.9    5.3
Yugoslavia         4.0    0.4   o.6   o.1   0.2   0.1    -     -     -     5.0     1.2     -
United Kingdom      -      -                 -     -     -    Oe6   2.0      -      -     2.0
Netherlands         -    10.9          -     -     -     -     -      -      -    10.4     -
Other              2.4    0.4    -    0.3   0.7   2.4   1.9   2.0   1.1     3.0    1.3  _5.7
TOTAL          80.8   31.1  21.1  24.9  27.7  20.9  44.0 32.5   33.5  100.0   100.0  100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow3 by Sector, 196241973
(US $ millions)
Communications
and Power      59.5   22.4 12.9    8.0 12.2    8.4  26.2  21.0  16.9    73.6   53.0   55.4
Industry          13.8    3.6   4.5   4.9   1.5   2.4   2.1   2.0    1.6   17.1   13.8    6.2
Agriculture        0.3    0.1   0.2    -     -    0.3   8.7   4.7   6.7     0.4    0.3   15.6
Health             0.8    0.5   1.5   5.9   8.6   3.8   2.9   1.6   1.5     1.0   15.7    7.5
Education          0.4     -    0.4   2.4   2.2   1.2   0.8   1.6   4.o     0.5    4.8    5.8
DFC                3.0    0.1    -    0.7   1.8   4.2   3.2   0.5   2.1     3.7    2.5    7.6
Other              3.0    4.4   1.6   3.1   1.4   o.6   0.2   1.0   0.7    3.7    10.0    1.9
TOTAL          80.8   31.1  21.1  24.9 27.7   20.9  44.0  32.5  33.5  100.0  100.0   100.0
Net Private Capital Inflow 1965-1973
(US $ millions)
Total    Total
1965    1966  1967  1968  1969  1970 1971   1972  1973  1965-69  1970-73
10.4     6.4   2.8   6.4 -2.0   11.2  14.6  13.2  19.6   24.0     58.6



Annex I
Page 1 of 3 pages
OOUNTRT DATA - SOMlIA
ARMA                                             POPULATION                                 DENSiTY
637,661 hal                                          97llion    (mid-1972)                             Fer Im2ot rebl land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Referene Countries
Srn-lia                Ithlooia     I K   .     mopa a
ONF PIU3 CAPITA U  (ATLAS bASIS) a                                           80 S            80 /a       170 Zj      1.3 l2
DEMOGRAPHIC
Crudebirth rate (per thousand)                                             46              2.46         48 b        247 4
Crude death rote (per thousand)                                            24   d          251.         18o         22L4
Infant mortality rate (per thou-end live birthe)                            .                           55     160-165  /
Lifo expectancy at birth (years)                              ..           40              39           48 /5       43
Goose reproduction rate/                                                  3 0             29           3           3 2
Population growth rate  S                                    2.0          2.2 2                        3           3. 04
Population growth rate - urban                                                              S            7           5
Age structur (percent)
011,44/                                                                46              15           48          44 z
15-64                                                       53/li        52              51 4b 2.8                53/5.
65 nd user                                                   3                                         4 2         3
ndoeny ratio A                                               1.5          1.5             1.4          1.4         1.3 .a
Urban pepulution as percent of total                                                        9            o 10        6 Z&a
Family planning. No. of acceptors o  1ouletivo (thous. 
No. of seers (S of married women)                  ..             .
Total labor force (thousands)                                930 /,     1,100           1 ,300 /     5,100 /&    5,750 4Ed
Percentage employed in agriculture                          88 /5        82              85           90 /5L      88 LL±
Percentage unemployed                                        .           20 L
INONH5 DISTRIBUTION
Fercont of n.tional income received by highest 5%                                                                   34
Percent of national income received by highest 20%            .6 ..                                                 60 ..
Percent of national income received by logest 20%                                                                    S 0
Percent of national incose received by loweet 80%             ..                                                    142
MSTRIBUTION oF LAND OWNERSNIP
owned by top 1%of owners                                     ..                           ..
% owned by sealleet 10% of owfere
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per phyW cian                                  30,000       21,140          74,550        7,830 /    21,570 05
Population per nursing person                              3,780        3,690          24,040        1,470       4 4,890 i
Population per hospita1bed                                   570          570           3,030          770         700 L/C
Per capita calorie supply ae S of requirements 5              72 /u        72 /            81           90          69
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per day46             52 Z         57  j           66           68          43
Of which, animal amd pulse                                  19 u5        27 k            25           29          23
Death rate 1-8 yearn /7
EDUCATION
AJ3dautd /8 primary school *nrollment ratio                    9           10              16 4!        67          37
Adjusted    s econdary  chool enrollment ratio                 1            4               42           9 L         3
Tears of sthooling provided, first and second level           12           12              12           13          13
Vocational enrollment as % of eec. sehool nrollment                         S 5/            5/5          2           2. 
Adult literacy rate S                                                       5               7           30
HDUSINO
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                                            ..           ..
Percent of occupied unit, without piped water
ACCes. to electricity (ae 5 of total population)
P-ec-t of rural population connected tc eloctricity
CONSUHPTION
Radro _r-oiv.r. per 1000 population                           12           20A/             7/5         41          16 l
Passenger care per 100D population                             2/r          2 t.            1            9   bo      2
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                          5.          lb              23 /a        78 /        31
Newsprint co-mumption p.c. kg per year                                   0. 07  a        0.02          0.5         0.1
Notes, Figurem refer either to the latent periods or to          account of -nirommetal temperatore   body l .igbt., and
the latest year. Laotet periods rfer in principle to              dietribation by age and maxf na tioal populations.
the yeare 1956-60 or 1966-70, the lateort years in prin-      /6 Protein atwAdarda (requiramente) for all countires an "atab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                           liibed by USDA Economic Research Servioce provide for a m1inim
/   The Per Capita GlP aetimate i at -arkot prices for            allowance of 60 grms of total protein per day, and 20 graes of
years other than 1960,calculated by thi  ame converion        animal and pule protei, of which    t grame should be nimal
technique as the 1972 World Bnk Atlas.                        protein. Theme tandrards re somewhat lowr than thoei   of 75
12 Average nueber of daughtere per woman of reproductive          grams of total protein and 23 gram  of animal protein an an
ag.                                                           average for the wold, proposed by PAO in the ThIrd World Food
/5  Pbpulation gmvth retes are for the decodes ending in          Surrey.
1960 and 1970.                                            /7 Some studies have suggested that crude deth rates of deildren
Ai  Ratio of population under 1S and 65 and over t. those          gae 1 through 4 ma be used a* a first approxiaatio. indes of
in the labor force from age 15 to 6h.                         malnutrition.
3  FAO reference standards represent phyololgical re-        /, Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
quirements for normal activity and neslth, taking             as defined for each esuntry.
19721       &   1971;    L   Moinlnd Tn.rn-io           /   UN estlatse, 1965-701    &   19671    I   V960-721    /   Addia
Ababa, Aars, towns and market centero;      5   2,000 or more inbhbitants, 1962-691    IL 15 gasetted tmrsehips, 1957-671
Ratmate;        Ak 15-5;     AI  60 years and over;    /a 1060;    &   Ratio of poptLation under 15 and 65 and over to
population in 15-64 age group;    /o  Ratio of population under 15  nd 65 and over to total labor force;   /5   Labor
force in 15-59 age brchket;    &   16 gasetted townships;    /r 1963;      al Urban only    /5   Number on registe, not
all working in country;    /u 1961-63;     /v 196L-66i     /5  1968i   /5   Including teacher training at third levell
/y  Public education only, not including privete vocational echwola;   /l 13 years nd ower       /ee   Incaluding vehiclee mo
longer in circulation;    /ab  Including government vehiclea;    /ac  Including light somercial vehicleel    Ls&  1961i
* TSneania has been selectad as the objective country because of its similarity in induetrial and trade etructure as wemll as
basic development strategies.
W.T.                                                                                R2. January 22, 1975



Annex I
ECONOMIC I EVEIPMENT DATA                                             Page 2 of 3 Pages
(A_mo_u_nta in milions of U.S. dolla-ra3
.7, Actual                       Projected            19 60.  1965 -   19 70 -  19 75 -
NATIONAL A~C0~WTh       1965     1970     173         1974      976    1980      19 65   1970      2 7        80     196D ~   i.Z    i2.
At 1967-1969 Prices & Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product          1337.1   1651.2   1875.3     .1950.3   2127.7  2586.3      5.1      4.3      4.3      4.9     1'0.0    9FY      0.
Gains from Terms of Trade()       18.9     22.8     29.9       -19.3    -56.0                                                   . . .   1.4t     3.
Gross Domestic income           13537.   I07Z_b   1905.S 2    1931.0   2071.7  2491.0      5.4      4.3      3.5      4.6     10 0. 0  100.0   100. 0
Imp-ort (mncl. NiB)              197.0    203.4    234.9      244.3     266.5   324.0     13.5     0.7       4.4      4.9      10.0.   12.3   13.0
Extorts   (imprt caoscit - Ilj   - ULp.   - 29-.7     -2L56. 6  -24 8.2  -274.4   11.8      0.9      7.1      2.1      -....2  **1**5  IIA
Resource Gap                      28.3     29.4   .-57.8       -12.3     18.3    49.5     29.0     0.6                 .        0.8     1.8    2.0
Consumption Expenditures        1222.9   1470.6   1583.0     1693.6    1809.3  2171.0      5.7      3.8      3.5      4.4      89.1    87.8    87.2
Investment   *1 (mncl. stocks)   161.5    232.7    264.3      225.0     280.7   369.5      5.8     7.6       1.6      8.0      11.7    13.9   14.8
Domestic Savings                 133.0    203.4    322.1      237.4     262.4   320.0      3.2     8.9       3.8      5.6      10.9    12.2   12.8
National Savings                 143.2    203.6    327.0       238.6    261.5   314.6      4.7      7.3      3.8      5.2      10.9    12.2    12.6
R0RX2IETRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
1 967    1968     1969        1970     1971    1972                                          1968    1970   1972
Irm.orts                                                                                                                              ____   ___
Capital goods                  48.8     72.9     51.7       56.9      64.0    72.7                                          42.1    33.2   38.5
Intermediate goods ('Lfuels) 30.8       38.5     33.5       39.4      43.4    39.6                                          22,3    23.0   20.9
Fuels and rela ted materials
of which;  Petroleuma        12.6    .10.8     11.3       13.5      17.7    15.7                                                   .
1oa  Merh  Imorts (cif)     143.0    173.0   .155.3      171.6     187.8   189.1                                         100.0   100.0  100.0
Exoorts
Primary pr-oducts (eel fluas)  99.9    102.6    114.9      114.6     119.7   159.8                                          96.4    93.7   95.8
Tuaels and related materials
of which:  Petroleum                   0.7      1.2         1.4      2.0     1.5
!amnufac tured goods           1.2       3.1A   3.02.      ..       ...      ...I                                           .~            .a
:ntal 1'erch. Exports (fob)  101.1    106.4     119-.2     122.3    125.6   166.8                                         100.0    100.0  100.0
Tourism and Border, Traoe
Averse  967-9.-100
Merchandise Trade Indices        1965     17       1973        1974     1976    1980
Export Price 1ndex            109.0    126.5    136.4       151.6   148.3    166.1       3.1     3.0      3.0       2.5
import Price Index            92.7     102.4    116.6       163.0   181.8    223.8      -0.3     2.0     11.0      5.4
Cerma ~ Trad  Index   117.6    123.5    117.0         93.0    81.6    74.2       3.3      1.0     -7.1     -2.8
I~xports Volume index         97.7      88.8    161.6       169.7   178.2    216.6       6.3    41.9     14.9      5.0
VAUJE,7 ADDFD BY SECTOR           Annual DaaaP96-          thil                               vrg Ana        rot     ae        As Percent of Total
1960/61  1963/64  19E5/66        7 !ZL6~8 1969/70  1971/72          1960/61-1971172           1960L63  1965/66   1971/72
Agriculture          ~~~.1504.5  1608.9  16E.+.4    1754.2   1833.3   1936.8                    2.3                   64.5      57.0     51.
:ndustry and i.Z1,iing        286.6    358.9    433.8      500.9     541.1    621.0                    7.3                   12.3     14.8     16.5
Service                      _Jj       _U&      _IV_Z     __4j      IQ.L    2j                         7.6                   23.2      28      32.0
Total                        2332.1   2652.3   2955.9     3200.0    3445.5   3761.9                    T.                   100.0     100.0   1;10.0
Ji---IC FIN3ANCE                1967/68  1968/69  1969/70     1970/71  1971/72  1972/73             1967/68-1972/73              As Percent of GDP
(Cuntral Gz)vernment)                                                                                                         1967/68  1970/71   1972/73
Cu-rent Receipts              367.6    396.6    429.1      466.0     494.7    560.0                    8.8                   9.6      9.9      10.5
C-.srrent Fxpenditu.res       345.2    362....  3E4.0      405.     A3~      /Afl,                   -Li                     9        8.6      8.9..
I.~cdgetnny Sav-ings           22.4     34.6     45. 1      60.5      60.3     86.2                  30.9                    0. 6     1.3       i.6
Other Public Sector              -        -        -          -         -        -
`ublic Sector investment       71.5     64.7     92.0      111.5     12.5.9   128.9                   12.5                   1.9      2.4       2.4
us $ million
CThF_.?.NT LXI'ENDITLPRE DETAILS          Actual           Prelim.           Pro.j.      DETAIL ON                             At end 1969 P and ER
As% Total Currcnt Expend.)        1970/71    1971/72    1972/73          19 73/74    PUBLIC SECTOR                     ',hir  fln       o  Totali
Idacation                            19.0       19.7       21.0             21.4       INVESTMEN4T PROGRAM4               (198 /6      - %1972 p73)..
Other Sccial Services                 7.2        7.0        7.5,             8.3       Social Sectors                        46.6        22.3
A_.riculture                          2.8        2.9        2.8              3.2       Agriculturt                           25.3       12.1
Other Economic Services               8.8        8.1        8.7    -         9.5       Industry and Mining                   24.5        11.7
Alministration and Defense           53.6       53.0       50.7             46.6       Power                                   -          -
(Other                                8.6        9.2        9.3             11.2       Transport snd communications          83.5        39.9
~otal Current Expenditures          100.0      100.0      100.0            100.0       Other                                 23-        1Aj..*
___________________________________________________________________________  Totalotal Expedditurss209.22          100.0
0c '_TED INDICATORS                              i960-     1.965 -   1970-   1974-       FINANICING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           l965      1970     1975     1978
Average ICOR                                     T.5_     3T 2-      2-9                    Public 5.-etor Savings             73.8       42.2
Import Elasticity                                2.68      0.31     1.05     1.00           Program aid counterpart              -          -
Mirginal Domestic Savings Rate                   0.07      0.20     0.13     0.08           Foreign Project Aid               10.         57.8
Margin.al National Savings Rate                  0.08      0.18      0.15    0.09           Total Financing                   175.0      100.0
LAIkO, FORCE AND             .         -     TotaLl Abor Force                               Value kdded Per, Worke             Prices_& REx. Rates)
OUTt~~~~JT PEN WORKER   .  In Millions      % of Total         19    -           In U.S.Dollars     Percent of Average        19I Milios-o Toal  g  I  U.SDolars erg kioRvr  1
19    1       19.       19       Growth Rate         19.       19         19         19        Growth Rate
Agriculture                    .            .     .          ..                            .        .
'Industry                       ..                 .     .   ....                                   .
Service                                            -         --                                      --
no0t applicable         nil or negligiBle
nout available       - less than half the
smallest unit shown



BANCE OF PAYMENTS1 ET85RhAL ASSS3TANCE AND DEBT    _-
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)  j
Avg. Annual
Actual 9Etimsated                                                      Projected           1Orvtb Rate
1974 127 , 1972  1973    19 74         975                      7                               1980       1970-1980
SUMMIRY BALMI! O? PADES
Erorts (imi. PSM)                      180.3      190.2       246.8      341.2        418.3        425.6       451.2      482.3       515.9       575.8      614.2        13.0
bDorts (incl. NFS)                    210.4       232.1      256.7       273.8        398.2        438.3       484.5      534.8       591.2       654.7      725.0        13.2
Resource Balance (X-M)                   :T1       -1.Y        10.1       6            1I             h        -33.                   -75.3      -78.9 6T1                13.9
Interest (net)                          -1.5       -4.5       -6.1        -3.1          3.0          2.6         1.3        -0.1       -2.0        -3.9       -6.6        16.0
Direct Invtstment Income               '-6.2       -7.2       -13.1      -16.8        -21.0        -22.1       -23.2      -24.3       -25.5       -26.8      -28.1        16.3
Workers' Remittance                       -          -           -          -            -            -           -           -          -           -           -          -
Curent Transfers (yet)                   8.0        9.0        17.7       25.5         20.0          20.0       20M0        20.0       20.0        20.0        20.0        9.6
Balance on Current Accounta           -29.8       -44.6         8.6   i   37.                                                                   _722. TI" 5  3WZ -  6  6  15.5
Private Direct Investmant                3.9        5.7         9.7       30.8         10.5          11.0       11.6        12.2       12.8        13.4        14.1       13.7
Official Capital Grants                              -           -          -            -            -           --                     -           -           -         -
Public MALT Loans
Disbursements                         27.4       44.3        33.0       36.9         73.3           .           .            .         .
-Renayrants                           -14.8      -13.1      -13.1       -13.1        -12.3
Net isbursements                       126 .                                                         . . 
Other MkT Loans
Disbursements                          0,0        0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0
N;R  M e                       0~~~~~~.0  0.0       -0.0         0.0          0.0
-R     emav ents                     0.0       °T °. °          --°    ° °
Net Sisbursemente                        0.0~    '              U.D        U.U           -U                     -                       -t
Capital Transacttons n.e.i.             14.1        0.9       -11.6       -56.1          - _70                                                                        Ru7   Le 1974
Change in Net Reservae                   0.8         6.8       26.6       -71.5        93.6       DEBr AND DEB SRVIC1
Publice ebt. OJu-... & Disbursed  169.0  204.9   226.9    256.5        303.8
aRANT AND IDAN OOMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like            11.4        11.3       14.9        14.2                     Interest on PFblic Debt       6.2       7.0       8.1     8.9          8.1
Repaymentit ou fublic Debt   14.8      13.2      13.3    13.0         12.4
Public M&IT Loans                                                                                   Total P'abl1e Debt Service   21.0      20.2      21.4    21.9         21_1-
-          --        10.8          -    .                 Other Debt Service (net)       -         -         -       -
IDA                                    3.1        13.9       34.3        53.0                     Total Debt Scrvice (net)     21.0      20.2      21.4    21.9         21.1
Other
Otber Multilateral                      -           -             .        -                    Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                            8.6        26.9       17.3        26.7
Suppliers                              1.3         0.7         -          0.1                     Public Debt Service           11.6     10.6       8.7      6.4         5.0
Financial Institutions                 3.0         5.0         ,          6.0                     Total Debt Service           11.6      10.6       8.7      6.4         5.0
Bonds              .                                                       -                      TDS+Direct Ivest. Inc.       15.1      14.4      14.0     11.3        10.1
Public Loans n.e . i.
Total Public }AZLT Loans                16.0     ;             bZ.4      5I                       Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outatabding oin De. 31.1973  .                Int. as % Prior Year DD&D    4.0        4.1      4.0      3.9          3.4
ITEXlAL DM                                   Disbuised Only             Pecent                        Amort. as % Prior Yeaw LtO&D  9.5       7.8-      6.5      5.7          4.8
World Bank                                 -     7.l-                                                                                      -
IDA                                             45.5                   17.7                      18D Debt Out. & Disbursed  -  47.4       57.1      64.2     67.4         69.0
Other Multilateral     'n                                                                               s % Publie Debt O&D      28.0       27.9     28.3     26.-3        22.7
Governments                                    112.6                   43.9                            as % Public Debt Service  27.1       28.7     29.0     34.2         35.8
Suppliers                                        1.2                    0.5
Financial Dnetitutione                           29.8                   11.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed      22.7       26.4     33.2     45.5         60.7
Bonds                                                                 '  -                         n a % Public Debt O&D         13.4       12.9     14.6     17.7         20.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                -                                                   as % Pablic Debt Service    0.7        0.9       1.3     2.3          2.3
Total Public !&LT Debt
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (diab. only)
. not applicable                                                e staff estimate                                                                                               d 
not available                                                - nil or negligible                                                                                           Dx D
... not available separately                                     -- less than half the                                                                                          CDt
but included in total                                           smallest unit showv                                                                                    ° 
H-



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ErHIOPIA
A.               STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of FEBRUARY 25, 1975)
Amount
Loan or                                                       (US$ Miion)
Credit                                              (less cancellation)  Undis-
Number     Year     Borrower         Purpose               Bank    IDA   bursed
Eight loans fully disbursed                                56.7
Two credits fully disbursed                                       20.7
523-Er     1968     Ethiopia     Highways IV               13.5           0.6
111-Er     1968     Ethiopia     Highways IV                       7.7    0.3
596-ET     1969     EELPA/1      Power II (Finchaa)        23.1           0.4
605-Er     1969     IBTE/T2      Telecommunications IV      4.5           0.9
169-Er     1969     Ethiopia     Wolamo Agriculture                3.5     -
188-ET     1970     Ethiopia     Humera Agriculture                3.1    0.2
243-Er     1971     Ethiopia     Education II                      9.5    5.3
269-Er     1971     Ethioqia     Dairy                             4.4    3.1
818-Er     1972     AWSA-        Addis Ababa Water         10.8           9.0
Supply & Sewerage
290-Er     1972     Ethiopia     Coffee Processing                 6.3    5.3
304-ET     1972     Ethiopia     Agricultural & Indus-
trial Developmemt Bank           11.0    5.5
332-Er     1972     Ethiopia     Highways V                       17.0   14.8
365-Er     1973     Ethiopia     Livestock II                      5.0    4.7
416-Er     1973     Ethiopia     Agric. Minimum Package           21.0   19.7
417-ET     1973     Ethiopia     Educa ion III                    10.0   10.0
418-ET     1973     Ethiopia     Amibara Irrigation               17.0   15.9
453-Er     1974     Ethiopia     Telecommunications V             21.4   21.4
485-ET     1974     Ethiopia     Drought Areas
Rehabilitation                   10.0   10.0
486-Er*    1974     Ethiopia     Wolamo Agriculture II            12.0   12.0
516-ET     1974     Ethiopia     Lower Adiabo                      9.5    9.5
Total                                          108.6  189.1
of which has been repaid                      31.3    0.2
Total now outstanding                           77.3 T88.9
Amount sold                            6.o
of which has been repaid            6.o            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)               77.3  188.9
Total undisbursed                               10.9  137.7  148.6
X not yet effective
/1 Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
72 Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
77 Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.                    STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of FEBRUARY 28, 1977)
US$ Million
Type of             Amount,
Year             Obligor                     Business     Loan   Equity  Total
1965     Cotton Company of Ethiopia I       Textiles      1.5     1.0     2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.        Paper                 1.9     1.9
1968     HVA Metahara                       Sugar         5.5     3-5     9.0
1970     Cotton Company of Ethiopia II      Textiles      0.4     0.2     o.6
1973     Cotton Company of Ethiopia III     Textiles      1.5     0.2     1.7
Total Gross Commitments                          8.9     6.8    15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      4.1     3.1     7.2
Total Commitments now held by IFC                4.8     3.7     8.5
Total Undisbursed                                 -       -   _



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETIIIOPIA -/
Ln No. 523     Fourth flighwayProject; US$13.5 million Loan and US$7.7
Cr. No. 111    million Credit of January 15, 1968; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to June 30, 1974, and sub-
sequently to June 30, 1975.
The project was late in starting because initial bids were high
requiring changes in specifications and new bid invitations. Subsequent
progress has, however, been good. Of the three civil works contracts, all
have been completed - one a year ahead of sclhedule and another about fifteen
months ahead of schedule; the third contract was substantially completed at
the end of 1973, about three months behind schedule, but some repair work
and clean up operations extended into the second quarter of 1974. The closing
date was postponed to June 30, 1975 to allow for settlement of contractor's
claims.
Ln No. 590     Power II, Finchaa Tidroelectric ProLect; US23.1_milion
Loan of May 9, 1969; Closing late; December 31, 1973,
postpioned to June 30, 1974 and was subsequently postponed
to December 31, 1974, and then to June 30, 1975.
The Project has been completed apart from some minor outstanding
works, and all three generating units are now available for commercial oper-
ations. An analysis of overall Project costs, taking into consideration the
various currency realignments during the course of construction, shows that
costs were about 7% over the original estimate, which is moderate in the
inflationary conditions which have prevailed during the construction period.
The increased costs are confined entirely to local costs.   The original Loan
Closing Date of December 31, 1973 was postponed to June 30, 1974 so that
r)ayment of retention monies could be withheld pending completion of all
outstanding items to complete contracts specifications, and was subseciuentlv
postponed to June 30, 1975 to allow pavment for some minor corrective civil
works.
Ln No. 605     Telecommunications IV i'roject; US$4.5 million Loan of
June 3, 1969; Closing Date; December 31, 1973, y ostponed
to December 31, 1974, and subsequently to D)ecember 31, 1975.
SIT)A is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to-
finance ,-5rt of the foreign exchange cost.  Overall progress has been
reasonabl\' on target.  However, installation of five microwave routes will
not be accomplishied until 1975. The delays were due to difficulty in
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
Thev should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
obtaining suitable consultants to work on the survey of three routes and
the need to review the capacity, feasibility and other requirements of the
other two routes to assure conformity with the Pan-African Regional Tele-
communications recommendations, and because of labor strikes which slowed
suppliers' deliveries.
Cr No. 169     Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; US$3.5 million
Credit of November 16, 1969; Closing Date; June 30, 1976.
Overall progress is good and in advance of the appraisal schedule.
Participation of farmers in the program to increase productivity through
the provision of extension services, inputs and credit is in advance of
expectations as is participation in the soil conservation program. Con-
struction of feeder roads is behind schedule and will reach only 50 percent
of target because of a financial shortfall. Land settlement will achieve
only about 90 percent of the project target because of unavailability of
suitable land. With respect to the livestock component, the vaccination
campaign is proceeding well.
Cr No. 188     Humera Agriculture Project; US$3.1 million Credit of
May 28, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1973,
postponed to December 31, 1974, and then to December 31, 1975.
The project is progressing well, but is behind the appraisal com-
pletion schedule by about one year, due mainly to delays in procurement of
heavy road construction equipment and delays in installation of the Humera
water system, which had to be undertaken by force account construction due
to non-availability of contractors. Construction of facilities on the project
farm is satisfactory. Consultant's study on the second phase project was
submitted to the Government in February. Only about $200,000 remain undis-
bursed. The project is located near the Eritrean border and the current
unrest and fighting in Eritrea has adversely affected the movement of surplus
agricultural produce to Eritrean ports.
Cr. No. 243    Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Physical implementation of the project is about one year behind
the appraisal report estimate due mainly to problems in the initial stages with
procurement of bulk order construction materials and delays in site acquisition
and surveys. The delay was reflected in slow credit disbursement initially.
Disbursement is now increasing and further delays are not anticipated.
The Academy of Pedagogy and its primary teacher training institute
has been completed. Nine other project institutions are also near-completion;
the remaining are scheduled for completion by end-1975. Construction and
phased deliveries of furniture and equipment are progressing well, and com-
pletion is scheduled for mid-1976.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Implementation of the technical assistance component of the project
is progressing and external fellowship students have taken up studies. At
the request of the Government, the manpower study by an ILO team has been
extended by 3 man-years to a total of 7-1/2 man-years.
Latest cost estimates show that Government will be called upon to
increase its project budget by about US$1.2 million to complete the project.
This increase is due to cost increases and currency realignments. However,
some or most of this increase may be offset by anticipated bilateral project
support.
Cr No. 269     Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million
Credit of August 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The credit was slow in becoming effective because of recruitment
problems. This project has serious liquidity problems caused by (a) a narrowing
margin between purchase price and sales price of dairy products (b) accumulated
expenditures over revenues on DDA operated ranches and farms; (c) over-extension
of administrative and technical services all of which caused the project to
incur an operating loss through 1974 of Eth$2.2 million. A large part of this
loss can be attributed to the fact that the Dairy Processing Plant was expected
to support the cost of technical assistance and extension services to dairy
farmers, a cost which should appropriately beborne by the Government budget.
Cost increases are also a problem and will cause some cut back of the project.
Inspite of this adverse situation, we believe the project remains basically
sound. We have suggested to the Government a program to restructure the pro-
ject and put the dairy plant on a more profitable basis. The Ministry of
Agriculture has accepted our proposal in principle and will present it to the
Council of Ministers.
Cr No. 290     Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of
March 20, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Due to delays in obtaining parliamentary approval and recruiting
key staff, the credit was not declared effective until December 15, 1972.
Further, project implementation has been slow. However, project management
and planning have been good; procurement of road construction and coffee
processing equipment is now well underway, and project implementation is
gaining momentum.
Ln No. 818     Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$10.8 million Loan of May 1, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation is running eight to twelve months behind
the appraisal schedule. When the loan was signed total project costs were
estimated at about US$13 million. Based on recent tenders for a number of
contracts, cost estimates have increased to about US$21 million. We are



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
awaiting AWASA and Government's proposals to meet the cost over-runs. The
alternative of reducing the scope of the project is being considered. This
solution would, however, have its drawbacks since delay of installation of part
of the works would result in more difficult and costly installation later on.
Recently, the African Development Bank indicated a willingness to assist the
Government in financing the cost overruns.
Cr No. 304     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The credit became effective on October 25, 1972. The funds originally
allocated to the industrial portion of the credit have been fully committed,
and $1.4 million have been reallocated to the industrial portion from the
agricultural portion which has proceeded more slowly. The report on the agri-
cultural credit study has been completed and is under review.
Cr No. 332     Fifth Highway Project:   US$17.0 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The credit did not become effective until July 24, 1973 due to de-
lays in Parliamentary ratification and in the submission to the Association of
the required legal opinions. Delays occurred in receipt of bids because of
extension of the bidding period to allow contractors to assess sharp price
increases consequent to the oil crisis and for Ethiopian taxes and duties
imposed at that time on construction equipment and materials. Cost increases
of about 60%, net of taxes, over appraisal estimates are due to increased
costs of fuel, equipment, materials, and freight. Four of the six road
contracts are underway. The remaining two are now proposed for inclusion
in the Sixth Highway Project.
Cr No. 365     Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977.
The credit became effective on August 24, 1973. However, the
construction program has not started and is now one year behind schedule.
A borehole drilling contract has been signed and bids are currently being
evaluated for the construction of markets, stockroute facilities, slaughter
houses and hide sheds. A review of project costs indicates a 39% cost esca-
lation since appraisal.
In addition, escalating operating cost estimates coupled with
decreased revenue forecasts indicate possible future cashflow problems and
Project management have been requested to prepare financial and economic data
for review by RMEA supervision staff.   Depending upon the outcome of this



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
review, consideration will be given to advancing the preparation of the Phase
II Project to 1977 in order to assist in financing the cost overrun for
completing the project works. Accounting Consultants have started designing
and implementing a new accounting system for the Livestock and Meat Board
(the implementing agency).
Cr No. 416     Agricultural Minimum Package Project; US$21.0 million
Credit of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit became effective on April 15, 1974. Project implement-
ation has gone well, and has exceeded targets for establishment of minimum
package areas.  Participation of tenant farmers has however been lower than
anticipated and is being studied. The increased price of fertilizer poses
a serious threat to the program. For this year, the Government has obtained
bilateral financing which will assist in the procurement of fertilizer and
make possible a subsidy in the fertilizer price to the small farmers.
Cr No. 417     Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This credit was declared effective on August 30, 1974, fourteen
months after signing of the Credit Agreement. This long delay was mainly
due to delays in Patliamentary ratification of the credit in the context of
political and students'/teachers agitation over the Education Sector Review 's
proposals for educational reform. Even though this was an interim project
and was not related to imiplementation of the reforms, the Parliament went
through prolonged examination and discussions before ratifying the Credit.
Drafting and signing of an agreement between the Government and the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church were also delayed, but were completed soon after Parliamentary
ratification.
The contract between the University and consulting architects and
engineers selected for professional services for the University project
components is being drafted. Work at technical levels relating to surveys,
design briefs, bidding documents, furniture and equipment lists for the
project is proceeding well. It is expected that project implementation
will progress more rapidly now that the credit has been declared effective.
The project unit will be expanded by appointment of additional staff, some
of whom will be financed under the credit.
Cr No. 418     Amibara Irrigation Project: US$17.0 million Credit
of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The credit became effective on August 30, 1974, fourteen months
after signing of the Credit Agreement. The delay in Parliamentary ratific-
ation of the credit was the main delay, and was caused by disputes relating
to claims on Government land and disagreement in Parliament over the land
allocation pattern proposed in the project and over measures for dealing
with Afar nomads in the project area.   Meanwhile project consultants have



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
estimated a three to four times increase in project costs, and questions
have been raised whether the project is still financially feasible and
economically viable. Consultants have prepared alternative proposals, and
a reappraisal mission visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to examine whether a
viable project can be designed and agreed with the Government. The mission's
report is being prepared.
Cr No. 453     Telecommunications V Project; US$24.4 million Credit
of January 17, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This credit became effective on August 23, 1974. The project is
now approximately six months behind schedule, but progress is now satisfactory.
Cr No. 485      Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The project was declared effective on November 7, 1974. Sub-project
preparation is proceeding well.
Cr No. 486      Second Wolamo Agricultural Development Project; US$12 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effectiveness
has been postponed from September 24, 1974 to March 31, 1975 and then to
May 15, 1975, due to delays in ratification of credit agreement and issuance
of leases to farmers settled under the First Wolamo Project. Credit has now
been ratified, but a draft lease has only recently been prepared. Bank com-
ments on this draft have been cabled to Government and leases have been
issued to a majority of the farmers. We are awaiting the necessary legal
opinion and documents necessary to the fulfillment of conditions of effective-
ness.
Cr No. 516      Lower Adiabo Development Project; US$9.5 million Credit
of October 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This credit became effective on February 5, 1975. Work on the project
and transportation into the project area has reportedly been disrupted by the
unrest in nearby Eritrea.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA - SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Ethiopia.
Beneficiaries:      The Ethiopian Highway Authority (EHA), the Rural
Roads Task Force, the Road Transport Administration (RTA),
and the Agticultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB).
AM,ount:            US$32 million equivalent.
Termns:             Standard.
Relending Terms:    The Govetnment would relend US$2.0 million to the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum for a term
equal to the amortization schedule for subloans.
AIDB would relend these proceeds to a contractor for
the procurement of construction equipment at an
interest rate of not less than 9.5% nor more
than 102 petr annum on a term equal to the
operating life of the equipment financed.
Project
Description:      The proposed project comprises:
(a)  the construction of 397 km of gravel-surfaced,
all-weather roads;
(b)  participatian in a program to procure maintenance
equipment for the EHA;
(c)  provision of training to the EHA;
{d)  procurement of weighbridges for and provision of
technical assistance to the Road Transport
Administratitn (RTA)3;
'(e)  establishme'nt of an organization to develop and
maintain rural roads; and,
{f)  extension ot a subloan to an Ethiopian road
contractor for the procurement of construction
equipment.
Purpos:             To continue the development and maintenance of Ethiopia's
road network in order to further integrate the agricul-
tural sector intb the national economy.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:  The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$46.3
million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$32 million, or 69% of total cost
uS$ Thousand         Foreign
Local      Foreign    Total   Exchange
Component
Feeder Road Construction             14,957     16,688     31,645     56
Supervision of Construction           1,035      1,265      2,300     55
Highway Maintenance Equipment         1,274      4,516      5,790     78
Training for EHA                         20         80        100     80
Technical Assistance and
Equipment for RTA                       66        183        249     75
Rural Roads Organization                 55        445        500     90
Contingencies on the above:
Physical                            1,610      1,831      3,441
Price Escalation                    3,724      4,992      8,716
Loans to Contractors for
Equipment                                       2,000      2,000    100
Total Project Costs                  22,741     32,000     54,741     58
(less taxes)                       8,485/                 8,485
Total Cost Net of Taxes              14,256     32,000     46,256     69
/1  Taxes are import duties levied on contractor's equipment and materials.
Financing Plan:                     The financing of the Project would be
shared in the following amounts and
proportions:
Amount
Source         US$ Millions         %
Government           14.3          31
IDA                 32.0          69
46.3         100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements:      Fiscal Years            US$ millions         Cumulative
1976                    11.5                11.5
1977                    11.5                23.0
1978                     9.0                32.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        Procurement of construction services (US$20.2 million 1/
inclusive of taxes) and maintenance equipment by the EHA
(US$4.5 million), and shop and maintenance equipment by
the Rural Roads Task Force (US$250,000) would be subject
to international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines; contracts for $10,000 or less would
be placed under Government's procurement procedures which
are satisfactory. Local manufacturers would be eligible
to bid for those goods which could be manufactured in
Ethiopia and would in the evaluation of bids receive a
domestic preference equivalent to customs duties and other
import taxes, or 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods,
whichever were lower. Supervising engineering services
(US$2.2 million) and technical assistance services
(US$610,000) would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines under terms and conditions to be approved by
the Bank. Qualified Ethiopian contractors would be
invited to compete for construction contracts and would
receive a domestic preference of 7.5%. Retroactive
financing up to $950,000 would be provided for road
construction costs incurred after March 15, 1975.
Rate of Return:     The rates of return on road construction range from 12%
and 18% and the rate of return for the maintenance
component is 24%.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 599-a-ET, dated March 31, 1975, Eastern Africa
Projects Department, Highways Division.
1/ US$20.2 million is the approximate cost of the two roads for which
contracts have not yet been awarded. Of the other two roads, a contract
for one was recently awarded under ICB, and the other will be constructed
under force account. The Government will procure construction equipment
for force account under ICB.



f A F R I C A  .8t4/                          tX                         <bSIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A  F  R  Ir C  A                                                                             0   WEIGHBRIDGES  TO  BE INSTALLED  UNDER  THE PROJECT
mIkrSloPIA < F \ ./  SLOXH _                                                           _ ~~sr A  T_W -. OR IMPROVED UNDER IHE
N  (   <  ~     \                     n -I  t                   EXISTING ALL WEATHER ROADS
Redl     Sas            ~                ROADS CONSTRUCTED A' 'i
.1                                                               ,0 J \ k e d S e a,  j   ) PREVIOUS RARNK GROUP  *  'UB. A   ILR
ROADS STUDIED AND CESiGNED UNDER
______ |  o  PREVIOUS RANK GROUP FINANCED PROJECTS  16
//                                                              - !  \ z  4t  5   o___  COREhDROADS 9UNGT CONSIRUCIED UNDER RFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
______________________________________                                      CREDIT  535-Er~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRDIT332-E
ART\UM   I  . ~ ArdAt       M,A  -   Aj~                                   OIEER  ROARS REING CONS.RUCIED
R EXISTING MAINTENANCE DISTRICT EOUNDAPIES
I \   C   (     ASRIERPAt      =                  8t3          g    EXISTING  MAINTENANCE DISTRICT OFFICES
----,  'RAI.lWAYS
)S     U  DAseNW                                                                               t _\> t_  RIVERS
;4 S>  5   U   D  A   N  i                 ..  .  - ,      -g                              LAKES
.\ .<- - \ -)Ad -                a                            -  - _  _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
d -                      .PROVINCIAL                   BOUNDARIES
1  'I       /               FM    /s   T  MEIT  G   R  E                            0 O  CAPITALS
n        iOTUPeR         --              - ----   )Jf     >                   Gu'/f.     ' of A den--
f              1. -T AA         y;9t1d.y.  T.jdgho
Bh,A.,               ,/   ~   T2A                     JLRT
./\ fi G  0   J    A MoA           TRE tEAU_E.
j           r, I. rR'o.i tM                                 
E~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WH                I2 ."A                                             ,Sn 5 0 AA A L I A
-es  g   RztR     _|9,             R    ~   ~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~ U 5 5  7- - 
S ~    ~~~~  ~~~~ _-- _DD,       AUT            ml  StAtl GO  0U!
IA~~~~~~~~~~~I
S   U   D   A   N             G ' Bo k .                                       R   A    R   G  /
ROA  C          v  Y l    
RI0 AttA                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  \   0  0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                L I    OA  M                      W      uNz- / Zle7  g1l....... @o 200
U  G     F   A D  A   \   4 tx K   E   N   Y   A                                              I ROT
UGAN DA                                              40-~~RE  MASA  A4 IMIL/



