FILE COPY
Report No. 599a-ET
Appraisal of the
Sixth Highway Project
Ethiopia
March 31, 1975
Regional Projects Department
East Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for otficial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsitbility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Ethiopian dollar (Eth$)
US$o.483       =  Eth$1.O0
US$1000        =  Eth$2.07
US$483,000        Eth$1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton) =  2204.6 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)       =  2.471 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB   -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CAA    -  Civil Aviation Administration
EAL    -  Ethiopian Airlines
EG     - Ethiopian Government
EHA    - Ethiopian Highway Authority
ER     - Economic Return
FER    -  Franco-Ethiopian Railway
GNP    -  Gross National Product
GiRS    -  General Road Study
MCTP   - Ministry of Communications, Telecommunications and Posts
.MPP    - Minimum Package Program
n.a.   -  not applicable
NER    -  Northern Ethiopian Railway
0DM    -  Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
p.a.   - per annum
PAS    - Public Administration Service
PCO    - Planning Commission Office
RTA    - Road Transport Administration
SIDA   - Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP   - United Nations  Development Programme
USAID  - United States Agency for International,Development
vpd    - vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR/
July 8 - July 7
1/ Unless otherwise specified, years refer to fiscal years
ending July 7 of that calendar year



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   .......................             i   ii
1.   INTRODUCTION   ........................ . ,         .......       1
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .                        .                     2
A.   Geographic and Economic Setting .               .           2
B.   The Modes   .............       ............ .  I ....      3
C.  Planning and Coordination                 . .                5
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR   ................                             6
A. The Network.                                                  6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic                       6
C. Administration                      ...    7
1D. Training . ..........                   ..                  8
E.  Planning and Financing               . ..                    9
F. Engineering                 ...10
G.   Construction   .........                    .     .       10
H. Maintenance                 .... 11
4. THE PROJECT  ...12
A. Description                 ...12
B.    Cost Estimates and Financing             . . .            15
C. Execution                  ...18
D.   Disbursements .          ..................      ...       19
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .19
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .22
This report was prepared by Mr. B.P.. Kennedy (Engineer), Miss F. Johansen
(Transport Economist) and G. Morra (Training Officer).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
7.   TABLES
1.   Road Inventory 1965-1974
2.   Vehicle Fleet, 1968--1973
3.   EHA Highway Budgets and Expenditures
4.   Main Road User Charges and Revenues
5.  Iiighway Design Standards
6.  Ilighway Maintenance Equipment
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
9A-E Economic Evaluation
8.   ANNEXES
1.   Highwav Projects Financed by the Bank Group
2.   Description of the Project Roads and Area of Influence
3.   Project Progress Reporting Requirements
9.   CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Ethiopian Highway Authority (IBRD 6677 4R)
2.   Project Implementation Schedule (IBRD 9738)
1(.  MAP
Sixth Hlighway Project (IBRD 1107 4R)



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Although substantial progress has been made over the last 20 years
in expanding the road network of Ethiopia, the road density of 19 km per
1,000 km2, including dry-weather roads, is still one of the lowest in
Africa. The main road network is fairly adequate but requires upgrading
and extension to the southwest and west and some inter-connecting link
roads. Maintenance, however, is poor and costly because of lack of
equipment and the deterioration of the road network caused by excessive
axle loads. There is a lack of lower class rural roads into agricultural
areas, and large parts of the country remain remote from modern means of
communication and rely mainly on pack-animal transport. The Ethiopian
Highway Authority (EHA) 1/, established and developed with Bank assistance,
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the main road network;
the Government is currently considering, with Bank assistance, developing an
organization to administer the lower class rural road network. The General
Roads Study (GRS) completed in 1972, with UNDP and Bank assistance, has
aided Government in the general development of the road network. Highways
are the dominant transport mode, supplemented by an extensive internal air
system which links the major administrative districts. International air
links exist with Europe, Asia and neighboring countries. The Ethiopian ports
of Aseb and Mitsiwa and the port of Djibouti in the French Territory of the
Afars and Issas serve Ethiopia. Djibouti is connected to Addis Abeba by the
Franco-Ethiopian Railway (FER), and the Northern Ethiopian Railway (NER)
connects Mitsiwa with Asmera and Akordat.
ii.       The proposed project will support Government plans for the devel-
opment of agriculture by providing for the construction of roads in areas
with agricultural potential. Most of the areas served by the proposed roads
have planned or existing Agricultural Minimum Package Programs (MPP's) financed
in part under a recent Bank Group Agricultural Project (Credit 416-ET).
iii.      The proposed project includes the construction and supervision of
four important feeder roads totalling 397 km, including two roads transferred
from the Fifth Highway Project. The feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing for these roads, which will be constructed to EHA feeder road standards,
were completed by ERA staff, advised by Bank Group preappraisal missions.
Urgently needed highway maintenance equipment will be procured for the EHA,
and training will be provided for certain categories of the Authority's
staff. The Road Transport Administration (RTA) will be strengthened by
the provision of technical assistance and the provision and installation of
weighbridges at key points on the road network. Technical assistance will
1/   Formerly the Imperial Highway Authority.



- ii -
also be provided to the Rural Roads Task Force for creating an organization
to plan and develop local lower class roads to serve agriculturally rich
areas and funds will be provided for some road maintenance and workshop
equipment for this organization. Funds will also be provided for equipment
loans to local contractors.
iv.      The ERA will be responsible for the road construction, maintenance
equipment and training components of the project. The Rural Road Task Force
will coordinate the technical assistance for the rural road organization
and the procurement of workshops and workshop equipment. The RTA will be
responsible for the procurement and installation of the weighbridges and
technical assistance. The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) will handle loans to the Ethiopian contractors. The project will
be implemented over a period of about three years. Civil works contracts
will be awarded, except for one road to be constructed by""force account, and
road maintenance and workshop equipment procured after intetnational competi-
tive bidding. The civil works are suitable for the participation of Ethiopian
contractors.                                 I
v.       The economic rates of return for the feeder roads range from 12%
to 18%, and for the highway maintenance equipment the return is 24%.
vi.      Total project cost is estimated at US$46.3 million net of taxes,
or US$54.7 million including about 16% taxes. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is US$32.0 million, about 69% of the net of tax cost. The costs of the
highway maintenance equipment are based on recent bids and have been updated
according to actual inflation rates. Costs of civil works are based on
detailed engineering estimates, revised by the appraisal mission to reflect
increases evident in recent bids for civil works in the Fifth Highway
Project. For technical assistance and training, costs are based on current
figures available in the Bank for comparable services.
vii.     The project will be financed by an IDA Credit of US$32.0 million
which will cover the total foreign exchange expenditure, i.e. about 69% of
total project costs excluding taxes. The Government will provide the balance
of about US$22.7 million, or US$14.3 million net of taxes.
viii.    During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on a
program and implementation schedule for the improvement of RTA capacity in
terms of trained staff, equipment and facilities to implement legislation
for the control of vehicle weights and dimensions and assurances were given
that commercial vehicle licensing procedures would be amended to conform to
vehicle control legislation.
ix.      The Sixth Highway Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$32.0
million on the usual terms, to cover about 69% of total project costs exclud-
ing taxes.



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Bank Group has been active in the transport sector of Ethiopia
since 1950 when it made its first loan to that country to help finance a
three-year program for reconstruction, repair and maintenance of its most
important roads. As a condition of that loan, the Government established a
semi-autonomous agency--the Imperial Highway Authority l/--responsible for
developing and maintaining the main road network. So far the Bank Group
has helped finance a total of five highway projects with loans and credits
totalling US$71.7 million. Under the first four projects, all satisfactorily
completed, a total of about 1,480 km of primary and secondary roads have been
constructed, 970 km have been paved and considerable attention has been given
to developing the capacity of the Authority to plan, develop and maintain the
country's main road network. Bank Group activities have been complemented by
bilateral aid from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) which has rendered considerable technical assistance to the EHA
and more recently from the Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) of the UK.
1.02     With the extension and upgrading of the main road network well
underway, emphasis has gradually shifted to roads serving agricultural
development. Some 3,500 km of such roads have been, or are being constructed
under Bank Group-financed agricultural projects; in addition the Fifth High-
way Project (Credit 332-ET, 1972) included the construction of six roads
(430 km) into agricultural areas as well as technical assistance to help
determine the best way of providing for the development and maintenance of
lower class rural roads, for which no suitable organization presently exists.
The Fifth Highway Project was late in starting due to delays in credit rati-
fication and the need to rewrite tender documents as a result of changes in
the Highway Authority's charter calling for taxes and duties to be levied on
its equipment and material purchases. Bids for four of the six roads in-
cluded in that project were received in January 1974 and construction is
underway. However, although still economically feasible, their cost is
considerably above appraisal estimates and insufficient funds exist under
the Fifth Highway Project for constructing all six roads; therefore, con-
struction of two of the roads were, at the request of the Government, dropped
from the Fifth Highway Project and included in this project.
1.03     The proposed project continues these recent efforts to aid agri-
cultural development.  It includes (i) construction of four important roads
serving agricultural development in various parts of the country; (ii) pro-
vision of maintenance equipment and training to the EHA; (iii) provision of
assistance to the RTA in enforcing legislation to control vehicle weights
1/ The Imperial Highway Authority has been renamed Ethiopian Highway
Authority (ERA).



- 2 -
and dimensions; (iv) establishment of an organization responsible for develop-
ing and maintaining lower class rural roads; and, (v) equipment loans to
Ethiopian contractors. The present project is described in detail in
Chapter 4.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprised of Mr. B.P. Kennedy (Engineer), Miss F. Johansen (Transport
Economist), Mr. G. Morra (Training Officer) and Mr. H. Linder (Agricultural
Consultant) which visited Ethiopia in February 1974. The appraisal also
drew on the recommendations of a USAID-financed study on highway maintenance
which identified equipment needs.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of 1.22 million km , is about twice the
size of France and consists largely of a vast rugged plateau, ranging in
altitude from 2,000 to 3,000 meters, dissected by deep river gorges and by
the great Rift Valley running diagonally northeast to southwest. It is
bordered by the French Territory of Afars and Issas and by Somalia to the
east, Kenya to the south and Sudan to the west; its northern boundary is
the Red Sea. Climatic conditions vary; the lowlands of Eritrea and the
southern and eastern parts of the country are dry, while the southwestern
region is wet for most of the year, and the central highlands have two
distinct rainy seasons with the lesser rains occurring between March and
May and the main rains between June and September.
2.02      Ethiopia's 1973 population is estimated at 26 million, growing at
an annual rate of 2.5%. Although emigration to the cities is increasing,
more than 90% of the population stiLl lives in rural areas, mainly at
subsistence levels. The largest urban concentrations occur in Addis Abeba,
the capital (about one million inhabitants), and in Asmera (about 230,000
persons).
2.03      The Gross National Product (GNP) is approximately US$2.1 billion
(1973) with a 4% annual growth rate (1967 to 1973); the income per capita,
US$80, is among the lowest in the world and is increasing annually at a rate
of only about 1.5%. Agricultural production accounts for about 50% of the
GNP and for over 90% of export earnings.
2.04      Because of the topography and climate, providing communications is
difficult and costly. Transport facilities are poorly developed with most
areas of the country isolated and dependent largely on pack animals. These
factors handicap the development of agriculture and other potentially
productive activities. Commodity flows are mainly by road between Addis



-3-
Abeba, the country's administrative and economic center, and the areas of
economic activity concentrated at Asmera in the north, the major Red Sea port
of Aseb, and, seasonally for coffee, Jima in the southwest; Addis Abeba is
connected with the neighboring port of Djibouti by rail. An internal air
service provides adequate links to administrative centers. No oil pipeline
exists but a preinvestment study for a pipeline between Addis Abeba and Aseb
has recently been completed and one may be constructed in the future.
B. The Modes
Highways
2.05      The road density, even including roads usable only during the dry
season, is about 19 km per 1,000 km2 or 0.9 km per 1,000 inhabitants, among
the lowest in Africa. However, considerable progress has been made over the
last 20 years in extending and improving the main road network, largely with
Bank Group assistance. Further details of the highway sector are given in
Chapter 3.
Railways
2.06      Ethiopia has two railways; the 781 km, 1.0 meter gauge Franco-
Ethiopian Railway (FER), linking Addis Abeba with the Red Sea port of
Djibouti and the 306 km, 0.95 meter gauge Northern Ethiopian Railway (NER),
linking the Ethiopian Red Sea port of Mitsiwa with Asmera and Akordat. The
more important FER is owned jointly by Ethiopia, with a 50% interest, and the
French Government and private French shareholders.
2.07      In recent years, the FER has made substantial investments in roll-
ing stock, in dieselization, and in improvements to the track and has been
able to remain competitive with road transport. However, competition is
expected to intensify now that the Awash-Tendaho road, the construction of
which was financed by the Bank Group, has been completed, thus providing a
paved road connection between the Ethiopian port of Aseb and Addis Abeba.
Freight traffic on the FER has grown at an average of 5.5% annually since
1967, but passenger traffic has declined by about 0.6%Y annually over the same
period.
2.08      On the other hand, freight traffic on the NER remains at about
1967 levels, though passenger traffic has declined about 5.7% annually.
This railway operates over very difficult terrain; most of the rolling stock
is overage, and much of the track needs renewing. A recent study showed that
the NER was no longer viable and that the roads in the area were adequate
for the traffic which would be diverted upon closure of the rail line, but
no decision to close the line has yet been taken.



-4-
Civil Aviation
2.09      Forty-four airports and airfields throughout Ethiopia are served
by regular scheduled air service, which partly compensates for the lack of
surface transport facilities. Only four--Addis Abeba, Asmera, Jima, and
Dire Dawa--have paved runways, mostly built in the early 1960's; the others
are largely earth strips.
2.10      International traffic, about 200,000 passengers and 20,000 tons
of freight in 1972, is served mainly by Addis Abeba and Asmera airports:
Ethiopian Airlines (EAL), a Government-owned company, carries about 60X of
the international passenger traffic and 30% of the freight. In addition,
in 1972, LAL carried some 164,000 passengers on its domestic routes.
2.11      The runway at Addis Abeba airport has recently been extended and
strengtihened and night landing facilities have been provided at both Addis
Abeba and Asmera. A 1972 Government study recommended upgrading several
of the domestic airports and establishing a domestic trunk air route to be
served ihy jet aircraft for both domestic and tourism needs. An aviation
and tourism project was subsequently prepared with the intention that Bank
Group financing would be sought. The project was appraised in March 1973.
Because of substantial cost increases the project, as originally conceived,
is no longer economically justified; discussions are being held with Govern-
ment to determine whether it would be feasible to restructure the project
to make it economically viable.
Ports
2.12      Th-e two Ethiopian ports of Mitsiwa and Aseb handLe about two-tihirds
of thse country's scaborne dry-cargo freight trade; the reraainder moves through
t-he neighiboring port of Djibouti.  Most passenger traffic is through Djibouti,
thouigih Mitsiwa h1andles a substantial seasonal pilgrimage traffic to Mecca.
Since 1967, dry-cargo freiglht traffic at Hitsiwa has grown at 4.7% annually
and is Ilow about 300,000 tons per annum. Over the same period dry-cargo
traffic through Aseb grew at an average annual rate of only about 0.3% and
is now about 250,000 tons. In addition, total imports of crude oil and
refined petroleum products are about 650,000 tons at Aseb and 180,000 tons
at Mitsiwa, including about 145,000 tons of refined petroleum products from
the Aseb refinery; these figures represent annual growth rates of 12% and
9.5,), respectively, since 1967.
2.13      The national Ethiopian Shiipping Lines S.C. carries about 13.5% of
tihe country's total seaborne dry-cargo and about 307 of its traffic on the
Red Sea-Northern Europe route. Attempts to develop regional coastal oper-
ations were financially unsuccessful and were dropped; the line is now
concentrating successfully on the European route.



-5-
Inland Waterways
2.14      Inland water transport is provided on lakes Tana, Abaya and Chamo,
and on the rivers Baro and Akobo. Lake Tana, currently handling about 90%
of the yearly total of 35,000 passengers and 5,000 tons of freight carried
on the waterways, has shown slight increases in the last years in both
freight and tourist traffic due to a lack of roads in the area, particularly
on its western bank. However, a recent study found that expanding scheduled
commercial operations would not be feasible and consequently planned develop-
ment was substantially cut back and limited to improving existing facilities.
C. Planning and Coordination
2.15      An attempt to improve planning and coordination in the transport
sector was made in 1969 by establishing a Ministry of Communications, Tele-
communications and Posts (MCTP), which brought all transport and communica-
tions activities, with the exception of roads, under one ministerial authority;
the Highway Authority continued under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Public Works. A Research and Planning Unit was set up in the new Ministry
to coordinate planning for all modes except roads. Road planning is initiated
by the Planning and Programming Division of the EHA and is coordinated through
the Interagency Road Committee, chaired by the Planning Commission; members
of the committee are the Ministries of Agriculture, Community Development, In-
terior, Defense, and Communications and the EHA and the RTA of the MCTP.
2.16      This attempt is not fully effective, principally because the Research
and Planning Unit has not been adequately staffed nor has its authority been
clearly defined. Another complication has been the tendency to grant auton-
omy to many of MCTP's ten operating agencies, thereby diluting the Unit's
authority. All the agencies except the Department of Marine, Land Transport
Department, and Post Office Department are now autonomous and legislation is
presently being prepared to grant autonomy to the Department of Marine.
2.17      The Third Five-Year Plan recommended establishing an inter-agency
transport and communications coordinating committee, chaired by the Minister
of the MCTP, assisted by a joint secretariat composed of the Research and
Planning Unit and the Ministry of Planning's Economic Infrastructure Depart-
ment. The proposal has not been implemented. During negotiations the
Government informed the Association that a complete review of planning and
coordination in the transport sector was currently underway and that the
existing procedures would be improved.



-6-
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
3.01      The existing highway network (Table 1) consists of about 23,000
km of roads of which about 8,700 km are all-weather, including some 2,900
km which are bituminous-surfaced. The all-weather roads comprise the main
highway network for which the ERA has responsibility and are classified as
primary, secondary and feeder or tertiary roads, a classification which
principally reflects design standards rather than use. Many of the roads
are quite old, dating back to the 1930's, and need extensive maintenance.
The main network, extending radially from Addis Abeba, connects widely
scattered population centers with the capital; it needs upgrading, extensions
and inter-connecting links which will be costly. There is also an almost
complete absence of lower class rural roads 1/ serving agricultural areas
and no organization yet exists to develop and maintain such roads.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.02      The vehicle fleet, estimated at 53,700 units in 1973, grew at an
annual rate of 6.7% from 1968-73 and was composed of 76% cars, 18% trucks,
trailers and pickups and 6% buses (Table 2). Even though the trucking fleet
has more than doubled during this period, transportation by pack animals and
even human carriers is still substantial, reflecting the lack of roads in
rural areas. Vehicle ownership, on average about one vehicle for every 485
persons, is as low as one vehicle for every 1,850 persons in rural areas.
More than one million camels and several million mules and donkeys are
engaged in moving goods, and porters sometimes walk more than 20 km per day
over difficult terrain.
3.03      The EHA conducts traffic surveys three times yearly at 55 counting
stations covering about 6,500 km of the all-weather roads. In 1972, traffic
volumes ranged from 10 vehicles per day (vpd) in rural areas to 3,000 vpd
near Addis Abeba, the average being about 265 vpd. Only about 150 km of
roads carry more than 1,000 vpd. Since 1967, traffic volumes have grown
at an average of 8.4% p.a., while vehicle lilometers increased by 12.5%
p.a., indicating an increase in vehicle utilization.
1/   These rural roads differ from the normal inter-urban rural roads in
that they are essentially low-standard, low-traffic volume roads in
agricultural areas and will remain rural in character and will serve
local needs only.



3.04      The trucking industry continues to operate under relatively free
competition. Although the RTA of the MCTP has powers to regulate tariffs
nationally, fixed tariffs are in force only on the Aseb to Addis Abeba road.
The RTA also has responsibility for licensing commercial vehicles and, since
July 1972, for implementing legislation controlling vehicle weights and
dimensions. The legislation on controls is largely satisfactory but the RTA
has neither the administrative capacity nor the facilities for effective
implementation. Also the present method of licensing commercial vehicles on
a gross weight basis allows axle loads to exceed the 8 tons permitted under
the legislation. Consequently, overloading is prevalent, causing some roads
to deteriorate badly and, in the case of some of the older roads such as the
Addis Abeba-Asmera road, the structures are showing signs of distress. During
negotiations, the Government assured the Association that it will revise exist-
ing vehicle licensing procedures and agreed with the Association on a program
for improving RTA capacity to implement legislation; assistance will be pro-
vided under the project for strengthening the RTA (para 4.06).
C. Administration
3.05      The Imperial Highway Authority was established in 1951 to develop
and maintain the highway system of the Empire and has responsibility for the
network of all-weather roads; it was renamed the Ethiopian Highway Authority
(ERA) in September 1974 (see Chart 1). Its activities are supervised by a
Board of Commissioners comprising the Minister of Public Works, as Chairman,
the Vice-Minister of Finance, the Vice-Minister of Commerce and Industry,
and two members, including the General Manager of the EHA, appointed by the
Government.
3.06      Staff of the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads assisted in the management
of the Highway Authority from its establishment until 1963, at which time
Ethiopians generally assumed management responsibilities, assisted by con-
sulting firms who provided expatriate managerial and technical advisors
under individual contracts until 1967. Ethiopianization has continued with
Bank Group encouragement as suitable local staff have become available and
today all divisions of the ERA are headed by nationals. However, expatriate
advisors are still retained in certain specialized technical and administra-
tive capacities.
3.07      Under the Bank Group's Fourth Highway Project, a complete re-
organization of the Authority was carried out satisfactorily by a U.S. firm
of management consultants, Public Administration Service (PAS), who had
previously made a detailed study of the Authority's organization and admin-
istration. In addition, recent top management changes have further revital-
ized and improved the Authority and its operations. Continuation of techni-
cal assistance recommended by the consultants was provided under the Fifth
Hlighway Project in the field of specialized administrative and technical
procedures, and this technical assistance will continue over the period of
the present project and will include on-the-job training of local staff.



3.08      As stated previously (para. 3.01) no organization exists to admin-
ister lower class rural roads. The Government has recently drawn up a program
for immediate relief to drought affected areas in five provinces which consists
of labor intensive construction of low standard rural roads. Financing for
this program, as well as a program to build roads to serve agricultural deve-
lopment, is being provided by USAID, ODM, SIDA, Bank Group and other agencies
and totals more than US$30 million.
3.09      At the instigation of the Bank a study of local rural road needs
was recently completed by the Government; it recommends the setting up of an
interim Rural Roads Task Force to determine the organizational and operational
requirements to develop and maintain rural roads; the Association, under the
Fifth Highway Project (Credit 332-ET), provided for expert technical assistance
to assist the Task Force in its work. The ODM (UK) has now agreed to finance
this technical assistance and the study to determine organizational and opera-
tional needs will be carried out under terms of reference agreed by the Asso-
ciation. This Task Force has now been set up and the experts to assist it are
now in the field. The establishment of a suitable organization responsible
for rural roads is urgent (see para. 3.08) and during negotiations the Gov-
ernment agreed to inform the Association of the findings of the Task Force
Study and promptly submit its plans for setting Up the organization, which will
be discussed and agreed with the Association. Funds to start implementing
those findings and plans are provided under the project (para. 4.07).
D. Training
3.10      In addition to on-the-job training provided by expatriate staff,
the EHA has an active training program for both senior and lower echelon
personnel. Senior employees receive advanced training at schools and
universities in Ethiopia and abroad and the Bank Group helped finance such
training under the Fourth Highway Project. Middle and lower grade construc-
tion and maintenance personnel are trained at the Alemgena Training Center
near Addis Abeba operated by the Highway Authority which, since its foun-
dation in 1956, has turned out some 5,000 foremen, mechanics, equipment
operators, etc. While some of the courses offered at the Center are well
organized, others are being improved by expatriate staff provided under a
USAID program. The Fifth Highway project provided financing for equipment
and materials to allow the Center to offer improved instruction by the staff
who need to revise and update their methods of teaching. The present project
includes the training of the Center's instructors and of additional EHA staff
(p1r,is. 3.16 and 4.n5).



- 9 -
E. Planning and Financing
3.11      When road development plans are agreed upon (see para. 2.15), the
Planning and Programming Division of the EHA, in cooperation with the
Authority's Design Division, prepares feasibility studies to establish eco-
nomic priorities among the roads in the plan. The Planning and Programming
Division's capability in preparing economic road feasibility studies has much
improved during recent years and, assisted by Bank missions, has prepared
both the Fifth and this road project. The Division has recently been
strengthened by the recruitment of Ethiopian staff previously working abroad.
In addition, the Government has made arrangements with the ODM to send two
of the Division's junior transport economists abroad for training. The funds
allocated under the Fifth Highway Project for the services of a transport
economist will now be used to provide the services of a computer programmer.
3.12      Budget preparation is the overall responsibility of the Planning and
Programming Division of the EHA. Following review and approval by the Board of
Commissioners, the budget is submitted to the Ministry of Finance for approval
of recurrent expenditures and to the Planning Commission for approval of
capital expenditures. The budget request is ultimately approved by the
Council of Ministers.
3.13      The General Manager of the EHA controls expenditures which are
subject to audit by the Ministry of Finance. In the past, there has been a
lack of cost control and technical auditing procedures. While accounting
procedures prepared by PAS and implemented with expatriate assistance under
the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects have improved matters, further improvement
and training is still needed. In addition to the computer programmer mentioned
in para. 3.11, the services of a technical assistance expert in auditing and
cost control, provided under the Fifth Highway Project, will continue over the
present project period, and a systems analyst will be trained under this project
to assist in processing the cost control data which is now becoming available.
Therefore, future maintenance budget estimates should be more realistically
prepared instead of, as at present, being based on previous years' allocations
which bear little relation to needs.
3.14      Table 3 shows the EHA budget and expenditures for the past five
years. For FY74, the Authority's total budget (Eth$ 113 million) amounted
to about 14% of the Ethiopian Government budget and 44% was financed by
international agencies. Revenues from road user charges, estimated at
Eth$ 88 million (Table 4) cover about 75% of the EHA budget, a considerable
improvement over the 40% covered ten years ago.



- 10 -
F. Engineering
3.15      The ERA Design Division prepares designs and contract documents
for major road and bridge works. Design standards for the three classes of
all-weather roads (Table 5) are satisfactory. A past tendency to apply these
standards at their maximum value has been largely overcome with the assis-
tance of an expatriate road design expert provided under the Fifth Highway
Project; his services will continue through the present project. Computer
programs are now used for calculating quantities and determining optimum
alignments.
3.16      Aerial photographs have been taken of large areas of the country
and two photogrammetric plotters are available to produce survey plans,
but staff experienced in their use is lacking. The Design Division could
effect considerable savings in time and labor and could improve the quality
of its design work, particularly in difficult mountainous terrain, by more
use of the existing aerial photographs. Training of EHA staff in photogram-
metry is included in the project.
3.17      A serious weakness exists in the Materials and Research Branch of
the Design Division. Although adequately equipped with laboratory and drill-
ing equipment, the Branch lacks experienced soils and materials engineers
and has not the capacity to keep pace with the Road Survey and Design Branch
in providing information on soils and materials for design purposes. However,
under a recent agreement with the ODM, the Transport and Road Research
Laboratory of the U.K. is carrying out, jointly with the EHA, a comprehensive
program for (a) preparing a countrywide inventory of engineering materials,
giving their distribution, properties and recommended possible use, and
(b) relating the EHA design procedures to local conditions such as traffic,
climate, terrain, and materials. The program, financed by the ODM, includes
two full-time expatriate research experts for a period of two years including
the transport and specialist equipment needed, short-term training of three
EHA research assistants at the Laboratory's headquarters in UK and post-
graduate courses for an engineer and a geologist. This program should
strengthen the Materials and Research Branch and help to reduce road construc-
tion and maintenance costs.
G. Construction
3.18      In the past, major highway construction was done by foreign con-
tractors or by the Authority's own forces. In recent years, however, a
small domestic contracting industry has developed and become active in high-
way construction; one domestic contractor is currently constructing the 210 km
Yabelo-Moyale road financed by the Federal Republic of Germany and another
has been awarded a road contract under the Bank Group's Fifth Highway Project.
The main constraints on their participation in highway works have been the



- 11 -
difficulty of obtaining credit on reasonable terms and the lack of experienced
contract staff. To overcome these constraints, the Fifth Highway Project
provided US$1.5 million for onward lending, through the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank, to Ethiopian contractors for equipment purchases
and funds for training contractors' staff in costing, construction organiza-
tion, and bidding procedures. These provisions have been used by the contrac-
tor awarded a contract under the Fifth Highway Project and a further US$2.0
million will be made available for Ethiopian contractors awarded contracts
under the present project.
3.19      Major contracts are of the unit-price type and are awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding after prequalification. Contract
conditions and specifications are satisfactory.
3.20      Supervision of construction was previously done almost entirely
by expatriate consulting firms. Under the Fourth Ilighway Project, Highway
Authority staff satisfactorily supervised the construction of two road
surfacing contracts and additional staff was trained by supervisory consul-
tants on two other road construction contracts. The use of Highway Authority
supervisory staff was expanded under the Fifth Highway Project.  Except for
one expatriate engineer assigned to each road contract, the supervisory staff
was provided by the Authority. The same arrangement will be used under the
proposed project.
H. Maintenance
3.21      The EHA Operations Division is responsible for the maintenance of
roads and for force account construction. A Roads Maintenance Engineer, under
the Chief of Operations who reports to the Chief Engineer, directly supervises
all road maintenance operations in the nine maintenance districts into which
the country is divided. The headquarters and boundaries of these districts,
which are different from the provincial administrative boundaries, are shown
on the Map. While the supervision of maintenance operations was strengthened
under the PAS reorganization, there was still a shortage of qualified and
experienced Ethiopian engineers. This shortage has been alleviated by the
availability of experienced road superintendents and by the new EEIA manage-
ment's assignment of engineers from the head office to the districts.
The additional professional staff should improve the overall supervision of
maintenance operations in the districts.
3.22      Road maintenance equipment is maintained by the Supplies and Equipment
Division of the EHA, the organization of which has been strengthened through
implementation of PAS recommendations and with technical assistance provided
under the Fifth Highway Project. The Division's facilities have also been
greatly improved through a current USAID-financed program which has provided
technical assistance, workshop equipment, tools, and spare parts for rehabi-
litating existing road maintenance equipment. (This program is shortly to
end.) The Supplies and Equipment Division is now functioning satisfactorily.
Technical assistance to the Division under the Fifth Highway Project will



- 12 -
continue for two years to train additional mechanics and workshop superinten-
dents and will assist the Division in handling the increase in road main-
tenance equipment to be provided under the project.
3.23      A USAID-financed Road Maintenance Study, completed by the consult-
ants Frederic R. Harris, Inc. (U.S.) in 1973, has recommended a road main-
tenance program for 1973 to 1978 and identified the resources needed, of
which the most critical need is for maintenance equipment. It found that
more than 60% of the existing EHA equipment was overage and recommended
items for procurement for each of the program years at an estimated total
cost of US$16.6 million. The Government, USAID, and ODM have already
financed about 60% of the equipment needs for the program. The balance of
equipment needed for the maintenance program until 1978, estimated to cost
USS5.8 million, is included in the project (see Table 6).
3.24      Replacement of highway maintenance equipment is made through budget
allocations but they have been insufficient to assure the timely replacement
of equipment so that there is now a large backlog of needed maintenance work.
The Government intends to replace worn out equipment on a timely basis in the
future.
3.25      ElA's current maintenance costs per kilometer average, according to
its records, about US$750 excluding equipment depreciation and overhead. If
these costs are included, the average per kilometer would be about US$1,000,
which is high and almost certainly reflects both the Authority's effort to
use old and uneconomical equipment and the deterioration of roads due to
illegally high axle loads. Furthermore, because of inadequate cost control
and auditing procedures (para. 3.13), these figures include funds which have
been diverted from maintenance funds to force account construction.
3.26      During negotiations the Government confirmed that it would provide
adequate resources to carry out the maintenance program to restore and there-
after maintain the main road network in a satisfactory condition.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
'4.01     The proposed project is designed to continue the development of
the Ethiopian road network by construction of four roads linked to agricul-
tural development, to improve road maintenance by the provision of equipment
and training to the EEIA, and to assist the Government in enforcing vehicle
control legislation and in setting up an organization to plan, construct,
and maintain an urgently needed lower class rural road network. It will
also continue to assist the development of a domestic contracting industry.



- 13 -
4.02      It comprises the following:
(a)  constructing and supervising four feeder roads totalling 397 km,
to gravel standard:
(i)  Bonga-Mizan Teferi (80 km);
(ii)  Dejen-Mota (104 km);
(iii) Sodo-Bulki/Bako Junction (108 km); and
(iv)  Nekemte-Bedele (105 km);
(b) procuring the balance of road maintenance equipment needed
for the road maintenance program;
(c)  strengthening the EHA through the provisioh of staff
training;
(d) strengthening the RTA through the provision and installa-
tion of weighbridges and technical assistance;
(e) establishing an organization to develop and maintain lower
class rural roads; and
(f) loan funds for equipment purchases by the successful local
bidders for road works.
(i) Feeder Road Construction
4.03      The roads are described in detail in Annex 2 and their design
standards are given in Table 5. Detailed engineering has been completed
by EHA's Design Division and is satisfactory. The first two roads will be
transferred from the Fifth HIighway Project to the Sixth (para. 1.02). Their
transfer will permit the remaining elements of that project to be completed
within the funds available.
(ii) Highway Maintenance Equipment Procurement
4.04      Much of Ethiopia's road network is old - dating back to the time
of the Italian occupation - and requires considerable maintenance which has
been neglected in the past. As stated in para. 3.23, the USAID-financed
Road Maintenance Study prepared a five-year road maintenance program which,
based on an optimum mix of labor and equipment and on the condition of exist-
ing equipment, identified an equipment purchase program to enable the EHA to
rehabilitate and effectively maintain the main road network. Financing has
been secured for most of the equipment and the project will provide for the
balance of equipment, including an initial stock of spare parts (Table 6).



- 14 -
(iii)  Strengthening the ERA through Staff Training
4.05      The immediate training needs of the EHA are both general and
specific. Its training center at Alemgana requires strengthening if it is
to meet the continuing needs of the Authority in terms of trained mechanics,
equipment operators, etc. The training courses at the Center are presently
being reviewed and improved by experts provided under a USAID program (para.
3.10). Provision is made under this project for the training of four of the
Center's instructors to improve teaching methods. In addition, provision is
made for training in the following areas:
(a) computer programming;
(b) aerial photogrammetry;
(c) manpower and career development;
(d) organization and methods;
(e) systems analysis;
(f) equipment and supply management; and
(g) cost control and auditing.
(iv) Strengthening the RTA
4.06      The project will improve RTA capacity to implement existing legis-
lation for controlling vehicle weights and dimensions (para. 3.04). During
negotiations, the Government agreed to revise the existing vehicle licensing
procedures to limit vehicle axle loads to the 8 tons permitted in the legisla-
tion. In addition, a program and related schedule of implementation for the
improvement of the RTA capacity to enforce the legislation was agreed with
Government. This program provides for the installation of weighbridges at
key points in the road network and for the assignment of staff to manage and
control the weighbridges. Under the project five weighbridges will be pro-
cured and installed at the locations shown on the Map. In addition, the
services of a transport economist will be provided for two years to train
RTA staff and to develop and establish methods of collecting and analyzing
data required for the effective planning and coordination of the road trans-
port industry.
(v) Establishment of a Rural Roads Organization
4.07      As the work of the Rural Roads Task Force (para. 3.09) is only just
beginning, it is not possible to determine what shape the new organization
which will plan, develop, and maintain lower class rural roads will take.
The recommendations for the organization will be discussed and agreed upon
with the Association. It is expected, however, that some additional expertise,
equipment, and workshop facilities will be required. To assist the Govern-
ment in setting up and operating such an organization, about 8 man-years of
technical assistance will be included in the project to provide for the



- 15 -
services of four superintendents to implement and provide on-the-job training
in rural road construction and maintenance procedures (two years each). An
amount of US$250,000 is also provisionally included to cover the cost of
district workshops and workshop equipment and some minor additional road
maintenance equipment. The specific requirements will be identified by the
Rural Roads Task Force and agreed with the Association.
(vi) Loans to Local Contractors
4.08      Funds will be provided under the project from which domestic
bidders who are awarded road works contracts may borrow to purchase essential
construction equipment. Loans will be subject to commercial interest rates
and will be administered by the AIDB (para. 3.18). The execution and delivery
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the AIDB, which con-
forms with provisions agreed under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 332-ET)
and with amendments agreed during negotiations, is a condition to Credit
effectiveness.
B. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.09      The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at
US$46.3 millions or US$54.7 million including taxes, with a foreign exchange
component of about US$32.0 million. A summary of the project costs is given
in para. 4.10. The cost estimates were obtained as follows:
(a)  Feeder Road Construction:  costs for the feeder roads were based
on an actual bid for the Dejen-Mota road, and for the other three
roads costs were estimated to the end of 1974 on the basis of
detailed engineering and the bid prices for similar roads under
the Fifth Highway Project. A physical contingency of 10% was
included as well as a price contingency of about 16% on the
Dejen-Mota road and about 21% on the remaining three roads
to cover estimated local and foreign cost increases to bid
date, mid-1975, and during the construction period at the
following estimated rates: 16% for 1975, 14% for 1976 and 12%
for 1977. Foreign costs, based on foreign contractor participa-
tion, are estimated at 56% for the two roads to be awarded after
international competitive bidding, at 52% for the local contrac-
tor bid on the Dejen-Mota road and at 47% for the Bonga-Mizan
Teferi road to be constructed by force account.
(b)  Supervision of Road Construction:  costs were estimated on the
basis of similar services provided in the past. Since ERA staff
will participate, the foreign exchange component is estimated
at 55%. The foreign costs also provide for consultants' pre-
construction services to the EHA covering review of designs,
assistance in prequalification and bidding procedures.



- 16 -
(c)  Highway Maintenance Equipment:  current costs were obtained from
equipment suppliers, and estimates reflect costs expected in
December 1974 (Table 6). Further price contingencies were
estimated at 25% to cover cost increases to time of delivery
and reflect suppliers estimates of price and freight cost increase
of 20% for 1975 and 1976. Local costs include port handling
charges and transport to Addis Abeba.
(d)  Training of EHA staff:  costs were based on experience with
similar programs elsewhere in Eastern Africa.
(e) Weighbridges: costs were based on suppliers estimates in
December 1974 and price contingencies were estimated at
about 25% to cover cost increases to time of delivery and
reflect suppliers estimates of price and freight increase of
20% for 1975 and 1976.
(f) Technical Assistance to the RTA: costs were based on prices
for comparable services already being provided.
(g) Rural Roads Organization: costs were based on international
salary levels for the type of experts required. The provisional
sum of US$250,000 included for workshops and equipment for this
organization is an estimate to cover minor additional items
which may be needed; the specific requirements will be identified
by the technical assistance experts and approved by the Association.
(h) Contractor Loans: the amount of US$2.00 million for contractor
loans was decided in discussions with Government.



- 17 -
4.10          Cost estimates  are summarized  below:
p Forci Cr1
Eth $ thouFerd               US $ thousanid          EK;zhanire
Local  Forei gn   T'otal    Local   Foreign   Total    Co.mrponeni
2.  Fecedr Rc-A^ C nstruction:
(a) Dejen-:-oi.             7,005    7, ;!09   1h,,598   3,3Alt    3,666   7,050          52
(b) ?onZa-Yizan Teferi    s,156    8,118   17,274   4,1c23         3,922   b,3! 5         47
(c) Sodo-O-ul'li-Bako jct   7,36JS    9,296   i6,6ol   3,529       4,491   5,020          56
(d) Nekemtoe-`edele         7,295    9,2L   17,036   3,621         _.,69 X      230       56
Sub-total I            30,961   34,544l  65,505  14,957    16,608  31,64,
I'.  Sunervision ci' I           2,1!t2    2,619    4,761   1,035        1,265   2,300         55
IrI.  I:ii,hw-ty, Y'-dr.'en-mce
Filp: iprient               2,637    9, 348   11,935   1,2718      4,516   5,790          7.
1V. Training to EIHA                 41      166       207       20         oQ     1(0         o0
V.  Assistwnce to IWA:
(a) Piircha:;u! CT' 1'h''i i-
bridgefe                   56       224       282      28        108      136         7,
(b) Installation               51;       56       110      26         27       53         50
(c) Technical Assistance       25        99       1218     12         48       60         80
Subtotal V                137       379      516       66        183     249
VI.  Rural Roads
(a) Technical Assistance    104         414       518      50        200      250         60
(b) Equip:.fnt, workshqcp     10       507       517        5       2185     250         93
Sub-total vi              0        ;CL    1,035       5''       445      5C44
VII.  Contingencic s:
(a)  Phyi2cal: 10, on I,
II, IV, vThc, Vla    3,333    3,7,0C)    7,123   1,610        1,831   3,8841
(b)  Pricc: about 16% on
la                    1,280    1,3815    2,5u5       599        650   1,,249
21% on lTh,c,d         5,533    6,22'l  11,760   2,673        3,008   5,61
10% oni IT, IV, Vb,c,
VIa                      261       368       629     126        178      304
25% on IIT]  Va          675    2)93   3_C68         326      1,156   1,&2
Sob-total VII        11,042   14,123   25,165   5,338         6,823  12,157
VITI.  Contractor Ioai-, For
Imported Equipnmmlit            0    4,140    4,140          0      2,000   2,000        I.C0
Total                      8'7,078   66,240  113 314  22 lll    32 000   8 7L,,1          58
Totpl-~(2 07_ __ __
(Tot...l Froject. Cost
eacluduing taxE,s)               (29, 510) (66,2140) (05,750) (14l,25()  (32,000) (8.6,256)     (69)
= = =     = - -      -      =  = -=         =    ==--= z   = _=   ==  === _=_ ==



- 18 -
4.11      The proposed Credit of US$32.0 million will finance the foreign
costs of the project; i.e. about 69% of the total project cost net of taxes.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will finance the
remaining costs, about US$22.7 million or US$14.3 million net of taxes.
C. Execution
4.12      The RTA will be responsible for the Road Transport Administration
component. The rural roads organization component will be the responsibility
of the Rural Roads Task Force, and equipment loans to Ethiopian contractors
will be handled by the AIDB. The EHA will be responsible for executing all
other aspects of the project.
4.13      International competitive bidding was twice carried out for the
Dejen-Mota and Bonga-Mizan Teferi roads under the Fifth Highway project.
Unacceptable bids were received under the first competition for both roads
and under the second competition a local contractor was awarded the contract
for the construction of the Dejen-Mota road and no bid was received for the
other road. Construction of the Dejen-Mota road has been awarded and the
work is expected to be completed by late 1977; an amount of US$950,000 is
included in the credit for retroactive financing to meet the contractor's
costs for mobilization and work done prior to credit signing. Because of
the isolated location of the Bonga-Mizan Teferi Road, it is unlikely that a
third international competition would produce satisfactory results and it
was agreed with Government during negotiations that the road would be con-
structed by an EEIA force account unit (which has recently completed the
construction of a major road) headed by a management team to be agreed with
the Association; the additional equipment needs of the EHA force account
unit will be procured after international competitive bidding. Construction
is expected to start in mid-1975 and be completed by end of 1977. The re-
maining civil works contracts will be awarded after international competitive
bidding and are expected to be awarded in mid-1975 and be completed by early
1978; at Government request a preference for domestic contractors will be
provided in the bid documents. The supervision experts for the EIIA and the
technical assistance expert for the RTA will be employed under terms of
reference and conditions agreed with the Association.
4.14      Contracts for the EHA maintenance equipment and for the five weigh-
bridges for the RTA are expected to be awarded in mid-1975 with delivery
during the first half of 1976. During negotiations, the timing of the pro-
ject execution was discussed and agreed with the Government; an implementa-
tion schedule is shown in Chart 2. Reporting requirements were also agreed
and are listed in Annex 3.
4.15      In the past construction of roads has been relatively equipment
intensive. The EHA standard specification, however, permits contractors
to use alternative methods of construction whereby labor can be utilized
more extensively providing quality standards are met. Some construction



- 19 _
items such as construction of culverts, drainage, rip-rap paving and struc-
tural excavation work require a substantial labor input and contractors
will use available labor to carry out these works. Furthermore, one of the
major tasks of the Rural Roads Task Force Study being carried out by the
ODM (UK) is to examine and develop the organizational requirements for the
construction of rural roads which are mucn nore suited to labor intensive
construction and maintenance (para. 3.09).
D. Disbursements
4.16      For the feeder road construction contracts disbursements will be
made for 55% of total expenditures, including taxes; for the force account
construction disbursements will be made for 47% of total expenditures, in-
cluding taxes. Since a construction contract has been awarded for the
Dejen-Mota road as a component of the FIfth Highway Project, retroactive
financing in the approximate amount of US$950,000 will be necessary. Dis-
bursements from the IDA Credit account will be made for 100% of the c.i.f.
costs at port of entry of the highway maintenance equipment for the ERA,
equipment purchased under contractor loans, the RTA weighbridges, and any
maintenance and workshop equipment needed by the Rural Roads Organization.
Disbursements will also be made for 100% of the foreign costs of technical
assistance and training and for 55% of the total costs of supervision of
feeder road construction. A disbursement schedule reflecting the agreed
timing of the project is shown in Table 7. Any surplus funds remaining in
the Credit Account on completion of the project will be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The deficiencies in the Ethiopian road network, in particular the
lack of roads serving agricultural development, have been mentioned in
Chapter 3; the urgent need to improve maintenance of the old existing roads
by providing equipment and improving skills has also been mentioned. The
project is designed to help remedy those deLiciencies and improve the EHA's
operational efficiency. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that
the Government would establish Mimimum Package Programs (MPP's), comprising
extension services, credits for fertilizer, seeds, other agricultural inputs,
and related credits to small farmers, on the completed roads.
Feeder Road Construction
5.02      Economic analyses showed the project to be well justified.  The rates
of return of the four proposed feeder roads range from 12% to 18%. Adjusting
foreign exchange costs and benefits to reflect more properly the scarcity value
of foreign exchange does not change the rate of return. Details are given in
Tables 9A, B, C, and D.



- 20 -
5.03      The economic analysis takes into consideration the costs of road
construction and maintenance, and the benefits of the increased net value
added in the roads' direct areas of influence and the agricultural development
which will result from ongoing or planned MPP's along the roads. Only conser-
vative expansions in the areas under cultivation during the life of the roads
were assumed. To estimate the benefits, cropping pattern and yields were
examined with and without the project, and the corresponding gross agricul-
tural production for each case was calculated for the 20-year economic life
of each road. The net added tonnage surplus was obtained by comparing esti-
mated surpluses with and without the project, valued at farm-gate prices,
calculated at market values, less the cost of transportation to the market.
To obtain the net added agricultural value, other agricultural input costs,
such as fertilizer and extension services were subtracted from the gross
benefits. Reduction in user costs for normal traffic were also included in
the benefits and were estimated as averaging Eth$0.14 per ton-km. Benefits
for car or bus traffic that may be generated and other developmental and
social benefits derived from better access to health, social and administra-
tive services made possible by the road have not been included.
5.04      At the time of the Fifth Highway Project appraisal, the Bonga-
I'Iizan Teferi road was estimated to cost about US$4.1 million and yield
a return of 22%. With the current cost and benefit estimates, the expected
return is 18%, which would decrease to 17% if costs increased by 10% and,
therefore, construction of the road remains justified (Table 9A).
5.05      For the Dejen-Mota road, the increased agricultural net value-
added and the reduction in transportation costs of existing traffic are
estimated to produce a rate of return of 16% on the construction cost (Table
9B); the corresponding rate at appraisal under the Fifth Highway Project
(November 1971) was 22%; the reduction is due to increases in costs being
greater than increases in estimated benefits. Should construction costs
increase by 10% the rate of return would still be a satisfactory 15%.
5.06      As a result of establishing an MPP, the cultivated area along
the Sodo-Bulki/Bako Junction road was assumed to double from 20% to 40% be-
tween Sodo and Gusuba, and triple, from 3% to 9%, the developed area on the
remaining section. The road will also provide improved access to the area
further south, possibly leading to development there; this benefit has not
been considered in the evaluation. Under these assumptions, the road has an
economic return of 15%. If costs should increase by 10% or agricultural
prices decrease by 10%, the rate of return would decrease to 14%, and if the
area under cultivation were to expand by 20% more than estimated, which
appears reasonable, the rate of return would increase to 17% (Table 9C).
5.07      With the agricultural extension services provided by the two exist-
ing MPP's along the Nekemte-Bedele road and the MPP planned for Arjo, we have
assumed that the nearby areas under cultivation will gradually expand from
25% to 32% from Nekemte to Arjo and from 4% to 10% along the remainder of the



road and thus triple surplus over 20 years. Even with this expansion, much
zultivabLe land suited for high-value crnps will remain unused. The Govern-
ment is considering proposals for settling about 100 families, which would
require, among other things, that malaria be eradicated from the area. The
Government has contacted bilateral agencies which have shown interest in
sp,ensoring such a project; how7ever, as the settlement scheme is still uncer-
tain, its benefits have not been included in the evaluation. The economic
rate of return is estimated at 129%: a 10%. -ost increase decreases the rate
to 11i% but if the settlement takes place, the increased agricultural surplus
wou:Ld increase the rate of returtn to 13% (Table 9D).
Highway Maintenance Equipment
5.C-      The procurement of highway maintenance equiDment will improve
the present state of the roads and will help prevent further deterioration.
Because of insufficient or worn out equipment, maintenance services have not
been able to keep up with maintenance needs and, as a result, many roads have
deteriorated badly. Continued failure to maintain these roads properly will
deny the rural population its only means of communication with other areas
and result in even more isolation. Such failure would also impede, perhaps
even decrease development of agricultural and other productive activities.
5.09      We have analyzed the economic justification for the total mainte-
nance equipment procurement program, part of which is included in this proj-
ect, on the basis of the integrated Road Maintenance Program (para. 3.23).
The principal benefits expected to accrue as a result of this project compo-
nent are savings in vehicle operating costs.
5.10      In order to quantify benefits, operating costs were estimated
for different types of vehicles on paved, gravel and earth roads in varying
condition, depending on maintenance input. Operating costs with optimum
maintenance are shown in Table 8. Operating costs without the project,
based on the road condition inventory and increasing over time because of
further deterioration of the network, were compared with those expected with
improved maintenance. Initial rehabilitation to original standards produces
a considerable reduction in vehicle operating costs which remain at approxi-
rm:ately the same level thereafter with proper maintenance. The resulting
benefits, increasing over the eight-year economic life of the equipment, were
applied to the traffic volumes increasing at an estimated average growth of
6.3% p.a., ranging from 2% to 10% according to the road section, to generate
the total benefits.
5.11      On this basis the cost and benefits, net of taxes and duties,
vield an economic return of 24%, a first year benefit of 11%, and a benefit-
cost ratio, at a discount rate of 10%, of 1.6:1. If costs should exceed the
estimates by 10% and benefits be reduced by 15%, the economic return would
still be a satisfactory 16%; and if all foreign exchange costs and benefits
are valued upward by 33% to reflect the shadow exchange rate, the resulting
rate of return is 21% (Table 9E).



- 22-
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations the Government and the Association agreed on:
(a) the amendment to delete the Dejen-Mota and Bonga-Mizan Teferi
roads from the Fifth Highway Project, Cr 332 (ET), and include
them in the Sixth (para. 1.02);
(b) a program and related implementation schedule to improve the
RTA capacity to implement the legislation controlling vehicle
weights and dimensions (para. 3.04);
(c) the terms of reference for the consultants and technical
assistance expert to be provided under the project (para. 4.13);
and
(d)  construction of the Bonga-Mizan Teferi road by force account
headed by a management team acceptable to the Association
(para. 4.13).
6.02      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a) amend the commercial vehicle licensing procedures to ensure
conformity with legislation controlling vehicle weights
and dimensions (para. 3.04);
(b) provide the additional financing to complete the project
(paras. 3.26 and 4.11);
(c) agree with the Association the specific requirements by way
of road maintenance equipment, workshops and workshop
equipment for the Rural Roads Organization (para. 4.07);
(d) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with AIDB for
the purpose of onward lending to Ethiopian contractors,
in comformity with provisions agreed with the Association
(paras. 4.08 and 6.03); and
(e)  establish MPP's on the project roads following completion
of their construction (para. 5.01).
6.03      A condition of credit effectiveness is the execution and delivery
of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the AIDB.
6.04      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
US$32.0 million to Ethiopia on the usual terms.
March 31, 1975



TABIE 1
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Inventory J.265-1274
(kmn) 
Total All-
All-weather Roads                       Dry-       weather Roads
Fiseal                        1/   Service               weather     and Dry-weather
Year       Asphalt     Gravel-    Roads2/    Total       Trails3/        Trails
1965       1,455       3,869        137       5,461     17,539           23,000
1966       1,526       3,778        451       5,755      17,245          23,000
1967       1.,868      4,257        657       6,782      16,218          23,000
1968       1,875       4,666        626       7,167      15,833          23,000
1969       1,942       4,805        626        7,373     15,627          23,000
1970       2,009       4,943        626        7,578     15,422          23,000
1971       2,078       5,341         626       8,045     14,955          23,000
1972       2,204       5,474        452        8,130     14,870          23,000
1973       2,481       5,268        556        8,305     14,695          23,000
1974       2,897       4,922         856       8,675     14,325          23,000
l/  Surfaced with crushed stone.
z/ Surfaced with select material.
3/ There has been no accurate inventory to date of dry-weather trails; this
will be done by the Rural Roads Task Force Study being carried out under
the Fifth Highway Project.
Source:  Frederic R. Harris, Inc., Consulting Engineers, and Imperial Highway
Authority, February 1974.
March 1l75



TABlE 2
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle F leet, 1968-1973
(Units)
Fiscal
Year         Cars      Buses     Trucks    Pick-ups      Trailers      Total
1968        30,200     2,535     2,450       1,920         1,770       38,875
1969        33,500     2,730     2,750       2,200         1,780       42,960
1970        34,500     2,900     3,000       2,h30         1,800       44,630
1971        36,000     2,975     3,350       2,660         1,830       46,815
1972        38,000     3,240     3,800       2,820        1,920        49,780
1973        41,000     3,400     4,250       3,000         2,000       53,650
Average Annual Growth
(,.)
1968/73      6.3       6.0      il.6         9.3          2.5          6.7
1972/73     7.9       4.9       :L1.8        6.4           4.2         7.8
Source:  Planning Commission Office, Ministry of Planning, February 1974
March 1975



TABLE 3
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EHA Highway  Budgets and Expenditures
(Eth$ '000)
Fiscal Years
1969     1970      1971      1972       1973       17
I.  A.  SUBP1TTTED BUDGET
Government Funds               51,489   55,128   54,145    69,608    84,734   109,371
Loan Funds                    24 676   27 671   30,563    51,502    78 145    75 460
76,165   82,801   84,708   121,110   l62,797  184,831
B. APPROVED BUDGET
Government Funds              37,056   36,463   34,682    43,738    50,692    64,023
Loan Funds                    14,873   27 673   21 306    51,306    33,844    49 320
51,929   6h,136   55,988    95,044    84,536   113,343
II.  A.  RECEIPTS 1
Government Funds              27,266   28,818   35,296    44,973    50,497    50,290
Loan Funds                     6,518   22,060   24,752    17,977    18,551    16,978
Others                            799      791       756     3,528      1,274        423
Credit Granted (End)           4,260    8,552    6,439       6,214      9,170      7,848
Cash Balance (Opening) 2/      2,150    2 043    4,540       4 743      1 685      4,03o
Total Cash Available          40,993   62,264   71789    77,435    bl,T177    79,569
Less: Cash Balance (End)       2,043    4 546    4 743       1,685      4 030      6,875
Total Cash Applied      38,950   57,718   67,06    75,750    ?7,147    72,694
B.  EXPENDITURES
Administration                 6,218    6,653    8,106       9,526    17,489       8,806
Engineering                    1,674    1,855    2,874       2,205      1,794      2,261
Construction Force Account    7,031    5,994    2,853        4,669      6,654     9,864
Contract Work                    639   11,105   32,677    37,775    42,427    26,981
Yaintenance                   10,348   11,591   10,574    11,048    13,041    16,664
Work in Progress                  147      482       401   161,309        225        138
Fixed Assets 2/                3,696    1,821    2,525       5,677        567      4,483
Clearance of Lip.bility        5,529       -      2,113        -          -          -
Receivables (End)              2 974   21,221   24 416    16 727    10 927         8 887
Total Expenditures                    60,722                   -r    9         7
Excess of Expenditures
Over Receipts 4/           ( 694)   3,004   19,493   173,186    15,977        5,390
1/ Receipts include Supplemental 3udgets.
2/ Opering Balance of 1972 includes the balance in both local and foreign banks.
3/ The increase of fixed assets in 1973 is shown net after write-off of
Eth. $10,654,000 worth of obsolete and salvaged eauipment during the year.
4/ Excess of expenditures over receipts due to (i) the use of cash balance from previous
year to meet obligations incurred in that year during the first seven days of each
fiscal year and (ii) the fact that materials and supplies purchased in one year are not
fully consumed in same year with difference held in the inventory.
Source: Ethiopian Highway Authority, March 1975
March 1975



TABLE 4
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Road User Charges and Revenues
Estimated Revenue FY7h
Unit Tax                    (Eth$ million)
Import duties on vehicles       From 20% for trucks to more
and accessories                 than l00% on cars, levied on
c.i.f. cost                                21.3
Excise tax on locally pro-      Eth$0.245 and ).205 per liter
duced fuels for vehicle         of gasoline and diesel-oil
usage                           respectively (about l00S tax)              57.0
Transaction tax                 126                                         6.0
Vehicle inspection, license    Various
and driving license fees                                                    2.5
88.5
Source: Ethiopiqn Government Budget FY74, and Frederic R. Harris, Inc.,
Consulting Engineers' Road Maintenance Study, June 1Y>73.
March 1'75



TABLE 3
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EHA Highway Budgets and Expenditures
(Eth$ '000)
Fiscal Years
1969     1970      1971      1972       1973       1974
I. A. SUBI'TTTED BUDGET.T
Government Funds              51,489   55,128   54,145    69,608    84,734   109,371
Loan Funds                    24 676   27 o71   30 563    51,502    78 145    75 460
76,165   o2,801   64,708   121,110   1&2,7;   184,'831
B.  APPROVED BUDGET
Government Funds              37,056   36,4663   34,682    43,738    50,692    64,023
Loan Funds                    14 873   27 673   "1 306    51 306    33,8h4    49 320
51l,929   64',136  555, 9 88    95,044    84,536   11-3,34
II.  A.  RECEIPTS I/
Government Funds              27,266   28,818   35,296    44,973    50,497    50,290
Loan Funds                     6,518   22,060   24,752    17,977    18,551    16,978
Others                            799      791       756     3,528      1,274        423
Credit Granted (End)           4,260    8,552    6,439       6,214      9,170      7,848
Cash Balance (Opening) 2/      2 150    2 043    4,546       4,743      1 685      4,030
Total Cash Available          40,993   62,264   71,789    77,435    bl,177    79,569
Loss: Cash Balance (End)       2.043    4 546    4 743       1 685      4 030      6,875
Total Cash Applied      38,95-0   57,718   67!046    75,750    77T,lh7    72,694
B.  EXPEMDITURES
Administration                 6,218    6,653    8,106       9,526    17,489       8,806
Engineering                    1,674    1,855    2,874       2,205      1,794      2,261
Construction Force Account    7,031    5,994    2,853        4,669      6,654     9,864
Contract Work                    639   11,105   32,677    37,775    42,427    26,981
Maintenance                   10,348   11,591   10,574    11,048    13,041    16,664
Work in Progress                  147      482       401   161,309        225        138
Fixed Assets 2/                3,696    1,821    2,525       5,677        567      4,483
Clearance of Liability         5,529       -      2,113        -          -          -
Receivables (End)              2 074   21,221   24,416    16 727    10 927         8,887
Total Expenditures                    60,722   86,539   2 8 o3   93,1          78,054
Excess of Expenditures
Over Receipts /            ( 694)   3,004   19,1493   173,186    15,977       5,390
1/ Receipts include Supplemental Budgets.
T/ Opening Balance of 1972 includes the balance in both local and foreign banks.
3/ The increase of fixed assets in 1973 is shown net after write-off of
Eth.$10,654,000 worth of obsolete and salvaged equipment during the year.
4/ Excess of expenditures over receipts due to (i) the use of caah balance from previous
year to meet obligations incurred in that year during the first seven days of each
fiscal year and (ii) the fact that materials and supplies purchased in one year are not
fully consumed in same year with difference held in the inventory.
Source: Ethiopian Highway Authority, March 1975
Yarch 1975



TABLE 4
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Road User Charges and Revenues
Estimated Revenue FY14
Dpe                             Unit Tax                     (Eth$ million)
Import duties on vehicles       From 20% for trucks to more
and accessories                 than l1O% on cars, levied on
c.i.f. cost                                21.i
Excise tax on locally pro-      Eth$0.245 and ).205 per liter
duced fuels for vehicle         of gasoline and diesel-oil
usage                           respectively (about lOO1   tax)             57.0
Transaction tax                 126                                          6.0
Vehicle inspection, license    Various
and driving license fees                                                     2.5
88.5
Source: Ethiopian Government Budget FY74, and Frederic R. Harris, Inc.,
Consulting Engineers' Road Miintenance Study, June ly73.
March 1, 75



3iIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
Road Classification
Primary                           Secondary                          Feeder
Terrain                             Terrain                          Terrain
Mountain-                         Mountain-                        Mountain-
Characteristics          Unit   Flat    Rolling         ous      Flat       Rolling        ous       Flat    Rolling        ous
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                           koVh    100        80           60        90           70          40          80       60          30
Mininum Horizontal Radius        m      327       229          127       287          164          57         229      127          38
Maximum Gradient                0/0      -          8            9        -             9           9          -         9          10
Minimum Gradient                /o       0.5       -           -          0.4         -           -            0.4     -           -
Pavesent Caaber
Bituminous Surface            /o       2         2            2         3            3           3           3        3           3
Gravel Surface                /o      -        n.a.Y         _         _           n.a.Y        _            4        4           4
Roadway Features
Width
Roadway                        5        8          8           8         7             7           7          6        6            6
Pavement Surface
Gravel                       a        8         8            8         7            7           7           6        6            6
Bituminous                   a        7          7           7         6            6            5          5        5            5
Structural Design Features
Maximm Axle loading             MT                         -                            8._         -          -         -           -
Bridges
Tlading                       n.a.     -         _            AASHO              H.20-S.16
Width, curb to curb            m       -          -           -         -          7.32
L/ Where primary and secondary roads are constructed with gravel surfaced pavement as initial stage construction, the
pavement camber will be 140/o.
Source: Imperial Highway Authority
March 1975



TABIE 6
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Equipment
Eth
No. of
Units       Description of Unit              Unit Cost         Total Cost
10       Dump Truck (6x4) 10 ton               92,000           920,000
7h       Dump Truck (4x2) 9 ton                75,000         5,550,000
6       Roller 9-10 ton                      56,o00            336,000
30       Roller 2-3 ton                       25,000            750,000
12       Water Tanker (6x2) 2,000 gal.        91,000          1,092,000
8,648,o00
Spare Parts about 10%                                  865,000
Total                                                9,513,000
Taxes  26%                                          2,472,000
ll,985,000
I/ Estimated at December 197h prices.
Sourcess  Frederic R. Harris Inc., Consulting Engineers Road Maintenance
Study, June 1973, and Appraisal Mission, February 1974.
March 1975



TABLE 7
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PRDJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
TBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                          at end of Quarter
(US$ million)
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                              2 UO
December 31, 1975 ThV
March 31, 1976                                                 86.0
June 30, 1976                                                  11.50
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                             15.30
December 31, 1976                                              18.00
March 31, 1977                                                 19 70
June 30, 1977                                                  23.00
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                             25.00
December 31, 1977                                              28.20
March 31, 1978                                                 31.00
June 30, 1978                                                  32 U
1J  Includes advances to contractors.
Source: Mission's March 1975 estimates.
March 1975



TABLE8
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Ethiopian cents/km)
Paved Road         Truck/Trailer          Truck          Bus           Car
Flat                    48.92             27.85         33.62          9.81
Rolling                 83.16             41.78         50.43         10.79
Mountainous             97.84             51.52         62.20         11.77
Gravel Road
Flat                    62.55             35.42         42.89         12.73
Rolling                106.33            53.13          64.34         14.00
Mountainous            125.10             65.53         79.35         15.28
Earth Road
Flat                    84.31            47.49          57.10         15.94
Rolling                143.32             71.24         85.65         17.53
Mountainous            168.62             87.86        105.64         19.13
Source: Appraisal Mission, February 1974, based on "Road Maintenance Study." ho value
has been assigned to non-commercial driverstand passengers'time.
March 1975



TABIB 9A
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJBCT
Economic 'valuation
(Eth$ '000 - at February, 1974 prices)
Bonga-Mizan Teferi Road Construction
Increased Production
Net         Normal
Construction  Maintenance   Total             Value-     Transportation
Year       Costs          Costs      Value    Costs  Added        Cost Savings
1.975      3.,56y
1976       6,422
1977      4b,282
1978                        80         161     152        9           505
1979                        80         458     246      212           505
1980                        80         744    290       454           505
1981                       200       2,844    389    2,455            505
1982                        80       3,544     489    3,055           505
1983                        80       4,325     670    3,655           505
198h                        80      4l,718     660   4l,058           505
1985                       4oo       5,142     712    4,43o           505
1986                        80       5,511     767   4.,744           505
1987                        80       5,845     792    5,053           505
1988                        80       6,206     678    5,528           505
1989                      W.O        6,533     829    5,70o4          505
1990                        80       6,885     835    6,050           505
1991                        80       7,233     886   6,347            505
1992                        80       7,560     881   6,679            505
1993                       400       7,887     877    7,010           505
1994                        80       7,996     884    7,112           505
1995                        80       7,418     928    6,602           505
1996                        80       7,418     928    6,602            5
1997                       400       7,418     928    6,602           505
Econolnic Return:
1.  Basic                          17.7
2.  With shadow exchange rate!    17.7
3.  -10% net value added           16.6
4.  +10% construction costs        16.6
-/ Foreign exchange valued upward 33%; according to foreign exchange component,
the following shadow factors result: 1.18 for construction costs; 1.07 for
maintenance costs; 1.25 for agricultural value added and 1.17 for vehicle
operational costs.
March 1975



TABIE 9B
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Kvaluation
(Eth$ '000 - at February 197)4 prices)
DeJen-Mota Road Construction
Increased Production
Net           Normal
Construction   Maintenance   Total            Value-      Transportation
Year        Costs          Costs      Value    Costs  Added         Cost Savings
1975        4,340
1976        3,377
1977        4,340
1978                        104         279    318       161             260
1979                        104         339     127      212             260
1980                        104      1,486    158    1,328              260
1981                        260       2,867     220    2,647             260
1982                        104       3,220     308    2,912             260
1983                        104       3,673     396    3,277             z6o
1984                        104       3,792     535    3,257             260
1985                        520       3,906     538    3,368             260
1986                        104       3,943     573    3,370             260
1987                        104       3,943     682    3,261             260
1988                        104       3,970     637    3,333             260
1989                        520       4,052     669    3,383             260
1990                        104       4,212     716    3,496             260
1991                        104       4,387     755   3,632              260
1992                        104       4,579     813    3,766             260
1993                        520       4,576     878    3,698             260
1994                        104       4,568     890   3,678              260
1995                        104       4,522     895    3,627             260
1996                        104       4,520     920    3,600             260
1997                        520       4,520     920    3,600             260
Economic Return:
1. Basic                           15.6%
2. With shadow exchange rate i    15.6%
3. -10% net value added            14.4%
4. +10% construction costs         14.5%
1/ See Table 9A.
March 1975



TABLE 9C
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
(Eth$ '000 - at February 1974 prices)
Sodo-Bulki/Bako Junction Road Construction
Increased Production            Normal
Construction    Maintenance    Total             Net Value-   Transportation
Year       Costs            Costs        Value   Costs      Added        Cost Savings
1975        3L30
1976        6173
1977        411h
1978                         108           500      350      150             257
1979                         108           70L      395      309             257
1980                         108          1199      512      687             257
1981                         270          2060      731     1329             257
1982                         108          2348     793      1555             257
1983                         108          2962      830     2132             257
1984                         108          3735      934     2801             257
1985                         540          4460    1095      3365             257
1986                         108          4720    1076      3644             257
1987                         108          5368    1161      h207             257
1988                         108          5774    129L      4480             257
1989                         540          6450    1381      5069             257
1990                         108          6735    1383      5352             257
1991                         108          7414    1535      5879             257
1992                         108          7684    1557      6127             257
1993                         540          8434    1745      6689             257
1994                         108          8945    1796      7149             257
1995                         108          9369    1853      7516             257
1996                         108          9799    1907      7892             257
1997                         540         10341    2055      8286             257
Economic Return:
1.  Basic                                   ]14.9%
2. With shadow exchange rate/                1114.9%
3.  -10% net value added                     13.9%
4. +20% cultivated area (net value added) 16.6%
5.  +10% construction costs                  13.9%
1/ See Table 9A.
March 1975



TABLE 9D
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
(Eth  t'000 - at February 197L4 prices)
Nekemte-Bedele Road Construction
Increased Production           Normal
Construction   Maintenance    Total             Net Value-   Transportation
Year      Costs           Costs       Value   Costs      Added        Cost Savings
1975       3519
1976       6334
1977       4223
1978                       105          214      165       49              95
1979                       105          375      258      117              95
1980                       105          823      386       437             95
1981                       263         1694      565     1129              95
1982                       105         2091      665     1426              95
1983                       105         3121      772     2349              95
1984                       105         3453      874     2579              95
1985                       525         3793    1025      2768              95
1986                       105         4213    1083      3130              95
1987                       105         4641    1197      3444              95
1988                       105         5153    1332      3821              95
1989                       525         5722    1446      4276              95
1990                       105         5901    1533      4368              95
1991                       105         6219    1661      4588              95
1992                       105         6748    1758      4990              95
1993                       525         6937    1905      5032              95
1991                       105         7194    1999      5195              95
1995                       105         7670    2097      5573              95
1996                       105         8030    2210      5820              95
1997                       525         8717    2364      6383              95
Economic Return:
1.  B.sic                            12.1%
2.  With shadow exchange rate2/      12.1%
3.  -10% net value added             11.1%
4. +13% agricultural surplus, if
Dedessa Velley settlement
takes place                 13.3%
5.  +10% construction costs          11.2%
1/ See Table 9A.
March 1975



TABLE 9E
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
(Eth$ 000 - at February 1974 prices)
E.  Hihway Maintenance Equipment Program
Increased
Capital        Recurrent          User
FY      Cost      Maintenance Costs    Benefits
1976    23,770
1977                      800              3,746
1978                      820              7,492
1979                      365              8,069
1980                      388              8,690
1981                      410             9,359
1982                      438             10,080
1983                      466             10,856
1984                      495             11,692
Economic Return:
1.  Basic                       24.5%
2.  With shadow exchange rate   21.5%
3,  +Io% costs -15% benefits    16.5%
4. First year benefits          11.3%
1/ About 16% of the procurement program is covered by this project.
Source: Appraisal Mission, February 1974
March 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Projects Financed by the Bank Group
A.  First Highway Project, Loan 31-ET, September 1950 (US$5 million)
1.    Purchases of urgently needed equipment for reconstruction and
maintenance of the road network were financed. This project was coipleted
satisfactorily, and the loan fully disbursed.
B.  Second Highway Project, Loan 166-Er, June 1957 (US$15 million)
2.    Foreign exchange costs were financed for:
a)  construction of main roads (about 850 km); and
b) engineering by consultants of roads for future
construction (about 1,000 km).
Execution of this project was delayed mainly due to disagreement between
the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) and the Ministry of Finance over the
funds needed to complete it. Road construction was satisfactorily completed
in 1968.
C. Third Highway Project, Credit 35-ET, February 1963 (US$13.5 million)
3.    Foreign costs were financed for:
a)  completing road construction started under the Second
Highway Project;
b)  constructing new roads (about 210 km) and several bridges;
c) bituminous surfacing of roads (about 800 km); and
d) consulting services to:
i) replace staff of the United States Bureau of
Public Roads in IHA management; and
ii) carry out economic and engineering studies of a
road through the Awash Valley.



ANNEXA I
Page 2
This project was completed and claims by contractors have been settled by
arbitration.
D. Fourth Highway Project, Loan 523-ET (US$13.5 million) and
Credit 1il-ET (US$7.7 million), January 1968
4.   Foreign costs were financed for:
a)  constructing main roads (about 420 km);
b)  asphaltic paving of existing main roads (about 170 km); and
c) consulting services for feasibility studies of further
roads, advice to the IHA, technical assistance, and training.
The Swedish Government also provided a uS$5.B million credit for this project,
bringing the total foreign participation to US$27 million. Some delays in
the comwencement of the project resulted from slow progress in the preparation
of acceptable tender documents and contractor prequalification,and the small
number of responses to the first tender necessitated a second tender with
some changed conditions. Road contracts were finally signed in July and
August 1969 and work is now complete. The two road paving contracts were
recently completed ahead of schedule, one road construction was completed
well ahead of schedule and the other on schedule. In addition the IHA was
reorganized, with consultants' assistance, and managerial and operational
procedures implemented.
E. Fifth Highway Project, Credit 332-ET (US$17.0 million), September 1972
5.   Seventy-five percent of total costs were financed for:
a)  construction of feeder roads (initially 434 1m and subsequently
reduced to 258 km); and
b) supervision of (a).
Foreign costs were financed for:
a) technical assistance for the PC0 on rural road development
and to the IRA and training of Ethiopian contractors;
b) materials research and training equipment; and
c) contractor equipment loans (through the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank).
The project was delayed initially due to delay in parliamentary ratification
of the Credit Agreement and later due to an amendment to the IRA charter
which necessitated changes in civil works cantract documents. Four of the
six feeder road contracts are underway. The remaining two are now included
under the Sixth Highway Project, and one contract has already been awarded.
March 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of the Project Roads and Area of Influence
(i) Bonga-Mizan Teferi Road (60km)
The proposed road will replace a pack animal track passing through
partly forested, hilly terrain and will link the coffee-rich Mizan Teferi
area with the all-weather road sy-stem at Bonga, in the southwestern province
of Kefa. The present population in the road's area of influence is estimated
at 135,000 persons and growing at a rate of about 4% p.a. due largely to
settlement in the area; with the road improvement the rate is predicted to
increase to about 5% p.a. Each family has slightly above four persons and
cultivates an average of about 1 ha.
The area of influence of the road is fertile, well watered, and
potentially rich for cultivating tea, coffee and grain.  Presently, about
15% of the area is cultivated, mainly with maize, sorghum, teff and coffee;
10% is devoted to grazing and 70% is open grassland or forested, but the
timber is not being commercially used. With the project, this 70% is
expected to be gradually developed so that 40% of the total area will be
cultivated with yields almost double present yields and a change in crop
composition towards higher priced ones; 45% will be for permanent grazing.
(ii) Dejen-Mota Road (104 km)
The proposed road crosses old established settlement areas with
little opportunity for expansion of the cultivated area; the first 40 km
from Dejen traverse rolling terrain with black soil in the valleys, while
the remaining section to Mta is on more hilly country with red soil. Total
population of the area of influence is about 300,000 persons, with a growth
rate of 1% p.a.  They cultivate about 35% of the land in small farms of I ha
per family of five members on average and produce teff, grains, pulses and
oilseeds, in amounts slightly above subsistence needs; 5u% of the area is
permanent grazing and each family has an average of four animals. The land
use and cropping pattern is expected to continue as at present, but with the
establishment of an MPP in the area, the yields should double.
(iii)  Sodo-Bulki/Bako Junction Road (108 km)
The existing link between Sodo and Bulki is a badly eroded earth
track over rolling-to- mountainous terrain which is passable only during dry
weather and then only with difficulty. The proposed Sodo-Bulki/Bako Junction
road will be an extension of the present Addis Abeba-Sodo all-weather road
and will in time become part of the country's main road network. The direct
area of influence of the road comprises about 10 km on each side and has an
estimated rural population of 50,000 persons. The growth rate of the popula-
tion has been estimated at about e.5% p.a. The economic activity is agriculture
mostly at subsistence levels. About 20% of the area near Sodo and only 3% of
the remaining area of influence is presently under cultivation; maize, teff,
wheat and pulses are the main crops at present. Livestock is important. The



ANNEX 2
Page z
marked difference in cultivation between the two areas is due to the existence
of the Wolamo Agricultural Development Units (WADU) near Sodo and of a dry-
weather road between Sodo and Gusuba, a small village about 25 km south.
Traffic counts on this road average about four buses and four lorries per day;
the fare for the trip is Eth$l per person or per 100 kg. Beyond Gusuba, trans-
port is largely by pack animals at about Eth$l per day,though human porters
are also used; the only vehicles using the road are four-wheel drive vehicles
and even these have difficulty in travelling. Partly because of lack of
adequate surface transportation, two weekly EAL flights connect Bulki with
Sodo, at a cost of about Eth$26 per person or 0.18 cts per kg freight.
It is expected that once the project road is built, the estimated
6u% of additional land in the area which is suited for cultivation will
gradually be exploited to increase present output and in addition produce
oiiseeds and pepper; this will be facilitated by WADU's second phase
(Credit 486-ET) extension along the road.  The higher income level of the
farmers is,furthermore,expected to attract immigration to the area, leading
to an increased population growth.
The project road will also facilitate travel to areas south of Bulki,
especially Bako, now connected by a 92 km trail with settlements and cultiva-
tion along its route. Bako is also served by EAL flights. An MPP is expected
to start in 1975 in the Bako area, which is suited to crop production and grows
a very high quality coffee; production is presently limited because of inade-
quate transportation. Most of this area is unpopulated but about 1,600 ha are
being distributed to settlers under the supervision of the Ministry of National
Community Development and a further 200,000 ha of suitable land are available.
The Provision of an all-weather road from the junction to Bako is not econom-
ically feasible at present, but should certainly follow the completion of the
project road.
(iv) Nekemte-Bedele Road (105 km)
The proposed Nekemte-Bedele road will run in a north-south direction
in the west part of the country, in the provinces of Wellega and Illubabor.
The existing 47 km track from Nekemte to Arjo is passable in the dry season
only and the 60 km track from Arjo to Bedele has deteriorated to the extent
that it is now virtually impassable during all seasons. The population of the
road's area of influence is about 130,000 persons who are densely settled between
Nekente and arjo where three small rural villages are established. Between
Arjo and Bedele the population is sparse,mainly because of difficult communi-
cations and malaria which is endemic in some places;at Bedele some population
concentration occurs again. An MPP is in operation at Nekemte and another
started in 1973 at Bedele. Agriculture is the main activity with about 25%
and 4% of the land in each section under cultivation, producing enough maize,
sorghum, millet, pulses and coffee to satisfy the local consumption and to
generate a small surplus which is sent to markets by the all-weather gravel
road from Nekente to Addis Abeba. The existing livestock production is non-
commercial. Only four-wheel drive vehicles can use the track from Nekemte
to Arjo and charge Eth$30 for one ton or Eth$4 for one passenger for the
trip; consequently, pack animals are widely used on this section. Pack
animals and human porters are the only means of transportation on the section
between Arjo and Bedele.
March 1975



AVDIEX 3
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Reouirements
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate,
no later than one calendar month after the end of the auarter. The first
Report should cover the auarter ending September 30, 1975.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
I. General Information
(a) the physical progress accomplished to date of report
and during the reporting period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project
implementation schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their
effect on implementation schedule and the actual steps
taken or planned1 to overcome the difficulties and
avoid delays;
(d) expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
(e)  key personnel clanges in the staffs of the ERA, con-
sultants, and contractors;
(f)  matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of the project components.
II.  A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component and
including a planned and actual expenditure graph.
III.  A financial statement set out in tabular form which shows for
each of the project cDmponents:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b)  revised cost,if appropriate;
(e) actual expenditure;
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from the
Credit Account.
TV. Brief confirmation of the status of action on each of the
co;enarts of the Cred-t Agreement.
K!arch 197,



A
APPRAISAL OF
A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
ORGANIZATION OF THE ETHIOPIAN HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
COM.ISSIONE.S
F          E IMANAGER
| EXECUTIVE ASSISTAN
I-ntotool A.d,t
Methods
Compute, Services
SNNEL  S|C                         PLANNING                                                               FISCAL |EGASERVICES SlA S S  EI IVII|I|I6PPLtE&
DIVISION                    RAMMSION                                                               DIISO                          e IIIN ll DVSON
"Islo.~~~~~~~~~~~~
Employ-en & Pay_lnigoPrlcs_Cam                                                                                   G.-Itl --qutngPrcree
E,mplovee R.1--on &           _pProgram &I B-dge1ts  ~        _C-nt.-t                                              C.., A--unm                        Wareho-I.
OffIc7 Services-_Rlqhtof Way                                                                                                                           EquipmenE -
Safely & Hedl1h
| ~      CIEFF (ENGINEER
CONTRACT CONSTRUCTION                            OPEfRATIONS                                DESIGN_
DIVISION                                .lV'SilON                                .'VISION_
Contract ConstruGtion                                                    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R..d Degn
Ph-g-9-me'Y    R-HOd L-:to 
E-oh D-,vE,o Coo,"or.,
MAdoo,ttnt,c           '0            El                                                                                                                                                               z         j 
WAr,housO              I
Soo- Mub.o C-CS
World B0- 667764R)






ETHIOPIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1975                        1976                         1977                         1978
Component
1. Feeder Road Construction
Final engineering
Bid documents
Prequalification of contractors
Selection of consultants
Advertisement for bids                             _
and bidding period
Bid review by EHA/I DA
and contract award
Construction period                                         _
Establishment of MPP                                                                                                               -      -             -
2. EHA Maintenance Equipment
Advertisement for bids
and bidding period
Bid review
and contract award
Delivery period
3. Assistance to RTA
Weighbridges:
Delivery and
construction of structure                                             -             -
Staff allocation
Start of operations
Technical assistance (of economist)                                                            -      -             -      -                            -
Selection period
Service period                                                         _
4. Training to EHA (11 trainees)
Selection of candidates and courses
Training period                                                          -
5. Rural Roads Organization
Technical assistance 14 superintendents)
Selection period
Service period                                                                      -       _      _                    - _
Equipment, tools, workshops:
Submit list of needs to IDA
Procurement                                                                                        _
6. Contractor Loans for Imported Equipment
March 1975
World Bank-9738






V  E~~~~~THIO~~~~~IRD1174R
. CA                                                                                               tr2;: . - 0: \: < - 0 2 SIXTH
K     ~~~~~~   ~~~~                                            ..          ~~~~~~~~ c~~~~~~AiecTsROD&tstucr
<   .7                   \    Q  E X                 :EXi4'0,z,,',:t                                     | ~~~~~PR  IMX%V1
A                                    -                                       4kMl-  ---- QMRTI-GMJNEAAN ~RWCe lS#T ODR
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WI   BOUNigtut(   0 
Tsi                                                    4                 R KERS/  g  MEKE_
Ye~ ~ ~ -
$_H U,  AN                         *A, Z
" As U S | W F t t tE<df Aiea                                                       L A:
$ S                                          -     NIERNAONAL S0RD GVfR i R_
05~~~~ ~~~~            ~~~ T- I0                     0   P   Es *r  CAPITAL~>  ;               2 S -            t\L
; ,'                          1                       ME  ,JtXK ELQt#f f tmf fSoE; 
. -                                                                          ;
k.GE     EIP
~~~S'/                        G J    AF     IN           DA    AM
M.                        LIANDE                  S MAI
    B S  B 0  P~ ~ ~~~~~~,::    7                   i



