CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 552 ET
Project Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ETHIOPIAN HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
ETHIOPIAN HIGHWAY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called EHA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the EHA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the EHA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional term has the following meaning: "Previous
Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the Imperial
Highway Authority, (Fifth Highway Project) dated October 19, 1972.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EHA shall carry out Parts A and B, inclusive, of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, highway and
engineering practices, and to that end, EHA shall inter alia ensure that the general
design standards to be used in carrying out Part A of the Project shall be as set


﻿4
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from
time to time.
Section 2.02. In carrying out supervision of construction of the roads
included in Part A of the Project, EHA shall employ competent and experienced
consultants and personnel acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) EHA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the EHA to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the EHA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) EHA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   EHA shall (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of Parts
A and B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A and
B of the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A and
B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
(c)   EHA   shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the EHA
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) EHA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A and B of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of EHA and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b)   EHA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A and B of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by EHA of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EHA
Section 3.01. EHA shall at all times manage its affairs and carry out its
operations in accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic and
engineering practices, Linder the supervision of qualified and experienced and
competent management, assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. EHA shall cause the primary, secondary and feeder roads
included in the Borrower's highway system to be maintained in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices, and shall assign the highest priority in
allocation of resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing road
network of the Borrower.
Section 3.03. In order to provide a basis for future road planning, EHA
shall continue to collect statistics on traffic and take such steps as may be agreed
upon from time to time between EHA and the Association for improving such
traffic data .collection.
Section 3.04. EHA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EHA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. EHA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the EHA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. EHA shall furnish to the Association on a quarterly basis a
report indicating for each subhead of the EHA ordinary and capital budget (i)
amounts requested, (ii) amounts received from the Borrower, and (iii) amounts
actually expended by EHA.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the EHA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿7
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the EHA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions;
Amendment of Previous Project Agreement
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For EHA:
Ethiopian Highway Authority
P. 0. Box 1770
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
HIGHWAYS
Addis Ababa


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the EHA may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person
or persons as EHA shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. EHA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the EHA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the EHA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 6.05. Schedule 2 of the Previous Project Agreement is amended as
follows: Paragraphs 3, 4, and 5 are deleted in their entirety and a new paragraph
to read as follows is added to said Schedule: "a computer programmer to
computerize the management information system."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
ETHIOPIAN HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
By /s / Ato Legesse Tickeher
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
(Section 2.03)
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Parts A.7 and 8 hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    All civil works contracts shall be based on a unit price basis.
3.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, bidders for civil works
included in the Project will be required to prequalify. A period of at least 60
days shall be allowed for submission of bids from prequalified bidders. Bids shall
be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to no less than 1%
of the bid amount.
4.    The bidding documents for civil works shall contain, inter alia, the following
requirements:
(a)   the successful bidder shall be required to furnish, at his option, either
a 100% performance bond or a bank guarantee by an acceptable financial institution
in an amount of 10% of the contract price, which bond or guarantee shall remain
in effect until the provisional acceptance certificate has been issued under the terms
of the contract; and
(b)   the contract with the successful bidder shall contain the following
provisions:
(i)         retention by EHA of 10% of the cost of works on each monthly
invoice up to a limit of 5% of the contract sum. One-half of
the retention monies shall be released when the provisional
acceptance certificate has been issued, and the other half after
termination of the contractor's responsibility in respect of
defects. In lieu of such retention the contractor may, at his
option, substitute a bank guarantee;
(ii)        the warranty period during which the contractor remains
responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and


﻿10
tear excepted) shall extend for one year after acceptance of the
work; and
(iii)       a provision  for settlement of disputes acceptable to the
Borrower, EHA and the Association.
5.    EHA   shall, before the award of any civil works contract, submit to the
Association for its approval the proposed staffing plan for the supervision of
construction under such contract, and no such contract shall be awarded until
the relevant staffing plan has been agreed.
6.    Identical or similar items of equipment will be grouped together wherever
practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement.
7.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be
awarded pursuant to such competitive procedures as are reasonable under the
circumstances, provided the aggregate amount financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in respect of such contracts shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
8.    Construction of the Bonga Mizan Teferi road may be constructed through
force account under the supervision of competent management acceptable to the
Association to be engaged by EHA.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions between the Borrower and the
Association connected therewith and the terms of any additional agreement:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to     prequalify and  applicants for
qualification applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the information for qualification, such information, including details of
ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification
established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:


﻿11
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ethiopia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of


﻿12
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower or EHA, as the case may be, shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by
the Borrower or EHA as the case may be to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower or the EHA, as the case may
be, shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿13
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower or the EHA,
as the case may be, shall inform the Association of the names of the bidders and
the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower or the EHA,
as the case may be, shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award of such consultants and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or the EHA, as the
case may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower or the EHA,
as the case may be, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or the EHA,
as the case may be, and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Feeder Road Design Standards
(Section 2.01)
----- Terrain-------------
Geometric Design Standards         Unit       Flat    Rolling      Mountainous
Speed                        km/h        80         60             30
Minimum Horizontal          m           230        130             38
Radius
Maximum Gradient            %            -           9              10
Minimum Gradient            %              0.4      -               -
Pavement Camber:
Bituminous             %             3         3               3
Gravel                 %             4         4               4
Roadway Features
Roadway Width               m             6          6              6
Pavement Surface:
Gravel Pavement        m             5         5               5*
Structural Design Features
Maximum Axle Loading         mt          -------- 8 - - - - - - - - - - -
Bridges
Loading                             ----- AASHO H. 20-S.16 - --
Width, curb            m            -------7.32------------
to curb
*     Under the Project, road pavements will be constructed with 15 cm of selected subbase
material as a first stage.


