CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 552 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 552 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1975, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the Ethiopian
Highway Authority (hereinafter the "EHA") with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the EHA a portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower;
(D)   Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank S.C. of the Borrower (hereinafter the "AIDB") and
for this purpose the Borrower will make available to the AIDB two million dollars
equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the EHA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "EHA" means the Ethiopian Highway Authority (formerly the Imperial
Highway Authority), an agency of the Borrower created by the Highway Authority
Proclamation of 1950 (Proclamation No. 115 of 1951) of the Borrower, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "Previous Credit Agreement"   means the Development Credit
Agreement, dated September 29, 1972, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   "Project", and references to "Parts" thereof, means the project, or
parts thereof, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the EHA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.,
a share company established and operating pursuant to the Commercial Code
Proclamation of 1960 (Proclamation No. 1960) and to Decree No. 55 of 1970,
and shall include any successor or successors thereto; and
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time pursuant to its terms.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1985 and ending April 1, 2025, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the EHA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the EHA to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with     sound   administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall use the services of consultants acceptable
to the Association to provide technical assistance under Part E of the Project and
to prepare plans for establishing an organization to plan, construct and maintain
local, lower grade rural roads, including its: (i) terms of reference and
responsibilities, (ii) organizational structure, (iii) proposed staffing, (iv) budget, (v)
training programs, and (vi) a list of the tools and equipment and materials for
such organization proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
their estimated cost. The Borrower shall furnish the said plans to the Association
promptly upon their completion.
(b)   The Borrower shall consult with the Association in respect of said
plans, and shall promptly thereafter establish and maintain such an organization
with terms of reference, responsibilities, structure, staffing and budget acceptable
to the Association.
(c)   A list of tools, equipment or materials for such organization to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be agreed to by the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part C of the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part C of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for purposes
of Part C of the Project, and to disclose the use thereof in Part C of the Project;
and (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure at
all times that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its highways do not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such highways.
Section 3.06. Upon completion of construction of each road under the
Project or sooner, the Borrower shall initiate or cause to be initiated in the vicinity


﻿7
of such roads a program of agricultural extension services and credit for improved
agricultural inputs satisfactory to thq Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained facilities
adequate to collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods
and procedures, such information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning
of its highway system.
Section 3.08. The Borrower hereby agrees that a dispute settlement clause
with a provision for arbitration acceptable to the Association shall be included
in all contracts for road construction entered into by EHA in the implementation
of the Project pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall make two million dollars equivalent
or such other sum as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Association from
time to time out of the proceeds of the Credit to AIDB for the purpose of carrying
out Part D of the Project pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement the terms
and conditions of which shall be acceptable to the Association, including mnutatis
mutandis the terms and conditions contained in Schedule 3 to the Previous Credit
Agreement except that the interest rate specified in paragraph (1) of such Schedule
3 shall be "8-1/2% per annum" and the maximum interest rate under paragraph
(7) of such Schedule 3 shall be "10% per annum".
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan' Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   EHA shall have failed to perform any of its covenants, agreements
or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EHA or for the suspension


﻿8
of its operations, or the Highway Authority Proclamation of 1950 (Proclamation
No. 115 of 1951) establishing EHA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
modified or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely EHA's ability to carry
out Parts A and B of the Project;
(c)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of AIDB
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any material provision thereof, shall
have been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated or waived without the prior
approval of the Association; and
(e)   before the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have terminated in
accordance with its terms, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB or
for the suspension of its operations without the prior concurrence of the
Association.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   an event specified in paragraph (a), (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   an event specified in paragraph (b) or (e) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Amendment of Previous Credit Agreement
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of EHA
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on
behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿9
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, EHA, and is legally binding upon EHA
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, and
is legally binding on the Borrower and AIDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date June 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.06 and 3.08
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.05. Schedules 1 and 2 of the Previous Credit Agreement are hereby
amended as follows: Schedule 1: by (i) decreasing the amount allocated under
Category II from "1,100,000" to "670,000"; (ii) deleting Category 111(a) and the
amount allocated in respect thereof; and (iii) increasing the allocation under
Category VI from "2,775,000" to "3,350,000" respectively. Schedule 2: by deleting
the Bonga-Mizan Teferi and the Dejen-Mota roads from Part A(1) of the description
of the project.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.0 1. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia


﻿10
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s / Ato Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below, sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Contractor                    12,750,000          55%
construction
(2)  Force Account                  3,925,000          47%
Construction and
Equipment
(3)  Supervision                    1,250,000          55%
(4)  Highway mainten-               4,500,000          100% of foreign
ance equipment                                   expenditures
for EHA
(5)  Weighbridges
(a)   purchase                   100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  installation                25,000          50%
(6)  Workshops and work-              250,000          100% of foreign
shop tools and equip-                            expenditures
ment for the rural
roads organization
(7)  Technical Assistance
for:
(a)   RTA                        50,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   Rural roads               200,000          100% of foreign
organization                                expenditures
(8)  Training of EHA                   80,000          100% of foreign
Staff                                            expenditures


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(9)   Contractor Loans               2,000,000           100% of foreign
for imported equip-                                expenditures
ment
(10) Unallocated                     6,870,000
TOTAL         32,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category I on account of expenditures
incurred after March 15, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $950,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in any such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to any such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and


﻿13
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an expansion of the Borrower's road network, improvement
of road maintenance operations and establishment of an organization to plan,
construct and maintain local, lower grade rural roads. The Project consists of the
following parts:
Part A:    Construction of feeder roads connecting the following locations
(including supervision of such construction):
Sodo to Bulki-Bako Junction (108 km)
Nekemte to Bedele (105 km)
Bonga to Mizan Teferi (81 km)
Dejen to Mota (104 km)
Part 3:     Strengthening of the EHA   through (i) the provision of highway
maintenance equipment, and (ii) training of staff.
Part C:    Establishing an organization to plan, construct and maintain local,
lower grade rural roads through provision of (i) technical assistance,
and (ii) workshops, tools and other equipment.
Part D:    Provision of financial assistance through AIDB to Ethiopian contractors
who are successful bidders for road construction contracts for the
purchase of equipment required for the execution of such contracts.
Part E:     Strengthening the Road Transport Administration through provision
of weighbridges and technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


