Do_uet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Rcwt No. P-4087-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERAATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$160 MILLION
TO TEE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FIFTH TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
May 20, 1985
This dxlmo   b  a r""eskcd _ihfd  an noy be u    Y eiPs  Od Inoes t6he Pm ommue Of
: ~~tldr OMWdu&     s    m  ma adS otulus ble dbdn  wif    WorM B"lc morbW_



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita I    -  First Five-year Plan, 1969-74
RepeLita II   -  Second Five-year Plan, 1974-79
Repelita III  -  Third Five-year Plan, 1979-84
Repelita IV   -  Fourth Five-year Plan, 1984-89
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAROSURTANAL - Badan Koordinasi Survey dan Pemetaan Nasional; National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping
BAPPENAS     - Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional; National Development
Planning Agency
DGSP         - Directorate General for Settlement Preparation (MOT)
GOI          - Government of Indonesia
MOT          - Ministry of Transmigration
PLP          - Penyiapan Lahan Pemukiman; Directorate of Land Preparation
within DGSP
SFSE         - Site Feasibility Studies and Engineering
SOE          - Statement of Expenditure
TAG          - Technical Advisory Group within Directorate of Planning (DGSP)
GLOSSARY
Bina Program (Pankim)        -   Directorate of Planning and Programming within
the Directorate General of Settlement
Preparation (MOT)
Other Islands                -   The islands of Indonesia excluding Java,
Madura, Bali and, occasionally, Lombok.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTH TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           US$160 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, incLuding a five-year grace period,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The project would be a continuation of the Bank's assistance
to the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in base mapping and
transmigration settlement planning. Its-main objectives
would be to (a) support the planning of transmigration and
other development programs in the Other Islands by
accelerating the national mapping program; (b) promote the
welfare of transmigrants and local people through better
physical planning of settlemEnts; (c) improve tbe qualitqy
and economic viability of the transmigration program by
providing program support to the Ministry of Transmigration;
and (d) strengthen the skills of GOI staff and domestic
consultants.
The project would finance: (a) a four-year time slice of
the national mapping program consisting of aerial photo-
graphy, and the preparation of base maps and altimetric
levelling networks in the Other Islands; (b) physical plan-
ning for 300,000 sponsored and spontaneous transmigrant fam-
ilies to be settled in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya;
and (c) a transmigration program review, technical assis-
tance, and training for the project executing agencies and
domestic consultants. The project would strengthen the
social and environmental monitoring and evaluation of the
transmigration program by coordinating efforts to solve
problems that may arise during implementation and providing
detailed guidance to central and provincial government teams
to safeguard the interest of local peoples and protect the
environment.
The project executing agencies would be the National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping (Bakosurtanal)
and. three offices of the Ministry of Transmigration: the
Directorate of Planning and Programming, the Directorate of
Land Preparation and the Staff Training Center.
IThis document has a esicted distibution and may be used by recpients only in the perfonrmae
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 3.
- ii -
The major project risk wouLd be that GOI may be unable to
use the information provided under the project in a timely
manner due to financial and managerial constraints. There
is also some concern about the potential impact of the
project on local populations. These subjects have been
considered in the project design through program support,
training, revised terms of reference for consultants and
improved monitoring procedures.
Estimated Costs                                       Local     Foreign    Total
-(US$ million)
Aerial Photography and Base Happing    9.0         13.9      22.9
Settlement Planning                    65.0        67.9     132.9
Program Support                        27.9        29.0      56.9
Total Base Costs /a                 101.9       110.8     212.7
Physical contingencies                 10.1        11.1      21.2
Price contingencies                    21.5        19.9      41.4
Total Project Costs /a              133.5       141.8     275.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                   18.2       141.8     160.0
GOI                                   115.3         -       115.3
Total                               1'3.5       141.8     275.3
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
==-  (US$ million) 
Annual                13.0    13.0    35.0    57.0    32.0    10.0
Cumulative           13.0    26.0    61.0   118.0   150.0   160.0
Rate of Return:           Not applicable for this project.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5529-IND, dated May 16, 1985.
Maps:  IBRD No. A18787, A18791, A18792, A18794
/a Including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.3 million. Total project
costs excluding taxes and duties are estimated at US$267.0 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A FIFTH TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$160 million to help
finance a Fifth Transmigration Project (National Mapping and Settlement
Planning). The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous na_ion.  The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP Y7r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
1/  On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net ezports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth.  Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and Led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14Z
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments Led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/canceLlation) of Large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy.
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNC and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984. The balance of payments situation is



-3-
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5Z of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4%
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovr.-y in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983
and 9Z in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroLeum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty aLleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/poLicy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations oh the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/seLection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not ccnstrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready



-4-
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 19B5, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production - have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit aLlocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7X of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are -ssociated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
rtducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population



- 5 -
living in poverty declined from 57Z to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of che 1980s.  Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3X p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there ;.s a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-far'- activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emrhasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contrinute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finaLly, the transmigration program can make a substartial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schoois is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as wll as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvemenc in
quality will be necessary to iacrease effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be



-6-
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40Z of the urban popuLation
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 752,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credit* and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       TotaL public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
meents. Of the total debt eisbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24Z; there is no skort-'term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 252 in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, -..e
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 21
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
2/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Health
(Manpower Development) Project (No. P-4040-IND), circulated under cover
of R85-117, dated April 25, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1985.



-7-
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments _s of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and
the share of debt service, 10.3% compared with 13.3Z and 7.9Z, respectively,
in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural deveLopment,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty aLleviation. This focus, which
was fully in Line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services.  While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promot-ing structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate
poverty.  This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic



-8-
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the
financial system, and public resource management. In the lending program,
agriculture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is
broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on industrial development and
education. Less emphasis is being given to power and energy, where the Bank
is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation the Bank is focussing
on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improving the
national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development, water
supply and population, lending is being directed more and more to developing
innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening
local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and
decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the
Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20Z of Indonesia's
capital requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an
important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking
also to widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well
as complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other
donors. This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban
development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There hal/been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio-  from a low of 13% in FY80 to 19Z in FY84.  The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA conmitments to Indonesia
increased by 122Z compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83Z. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures. The severe shortage of managerial
and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps
have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint
review procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work
out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some
of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implemen-
tation.  The Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. In order to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. In addition, in order to ease the Government's
resource constraints ind maintain the pace of project implementation in
3/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
priority areas, steps were taken under the Special Assistance Program to
accelerate disbursements in 17 ongoing projects in the treecrops and irri-
gation sectors and one project each in the energy and transport sectors. The
combined effects of all of these activities are reflected in the increase in
disbursements from US$206 miLlion in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is
nevertheless important that the Bank and the Government maintain their
efforts.
PART III - THE TRANSHIGRATION PROGRAM
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to:
(a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor;
(b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand;
(c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of tree crops; and
(d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water
and other natural resources.
22.       Role and Performance.  Despite a 4Z average annual growth in pro-
duction, agriculture's share of GDP declined from 40Z in 1968 to 30X in 1983,
due mainly to the increased value of oil production. Nevertheless, the agri-
cultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great
majority of Indonesians. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas,
and agriculture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural
households and one-tenth of urban househoLds. Some 16 million smallholder
families produce subsistence and cash crops on 14 million ha, while 1,800
estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil,
aad tobacco.
23.       Food Crops.  GOI has traditionally concentrated on increasing the
production of rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of
Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly (4.5Z p.a.) between 1970 and
1983, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation and the increased use of
fertilizer and high-yielding seed. Estimated 1984 production is 25.5 million
tons and it is expected that a large measure of self-sufficiency can be sus-
tained. However, over the past decade, the output of secondary food crops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a. Yield improvement through intensified research and
support services, and expansion of the harvested area, would serve many of the
poorest areas of Java and especially the Other Islands where transmigration is
opening up more land. A food policy which emphasizes secondary crop produc-
tion as well as rice would serve the twin goals of growth and equity, as many
of the poorest parts of Java and the Other Islands are best suited to
secondary crops.



- 10 -
24.       Tree Crops.  Tree crops occupy about one-third of total cropped land
(coconuts and rubber account for 80X of this), and generate about 43X of totaL
non-oil ezport revenues. Smallholders cultivate 80X of the rubber area and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper. Tea and oil palm are grown
primarily on estates. Expansion of smaLlholder tree crops is of high
priority, given the vast area of over-aged and low-yieLding smallholder rubber
and coconuts, the good market prospects and employment potential, for these
crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative
advantage in them.
25.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet basic
needs and to generate employment and production have been deveLoped for cer-
tain critically poor areas of Java and the Other Islands. Projects in Java
are particularly important as cultivable land there is almost fully utilized,
and in some higher watersheds cultivation already exceeds environmentally safe
limits, contributing to increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation
of ports, dams and irrigation canals. GOI is implementing area development,
watershed development and upland farming development projects to address this
problem.
26.       Bank Group Lending for Agriculture.  Since the first of 20
irrigation and swamp reclamation projects for Indonesia was approved in 1968,
the Bank Group's agricultural lending to the country has rapidly expanded to
include 10 projects in estate and smallhoLder tree crops, plus projects in
fertilizer production and distribution, sugar, livestock, fish0ries, research,
extension, training, seeds, upland farming, area development, resource sur-
veying and mapping, and transmigration. Within the context of GOI's agricul-
tural objectives and priorities, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to expand
water resources infrastructure on the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs emphasiz-
ing increased rubber and edible oil production and industrial forest
estates; and
(c) area development projects, including watershed management and
transmigration.
Transmigration
27.       The Need for a Transmigration Program.  Of Indonesia's population of
over 155 million, more than 95 million reside in Java, an island with about 7Z
of the nation's land. Seventy percent of Java's total area is cultivated and
the population density in irrigated areas can reach 2,000 people/sq km. Mean-
while, vast tracts of forest and coastal land lie uncultivated in the Other
Islands. The low population densities in some areas (e.g., 12 people/sq km in
Kalimantan, 3 people/sq km in Irian Jaya) impede regional development and
economic growth. These facts have been so striking for so long that programs
to associate the underutilized labor of Java with the underutilized land of
the Other Islands have been carried out since the beginning of this century.



- 11 -
28.       ObjectLves.  The major objectives of Indonesia's transmigration
program are to:(a) improve empLoyment opportunities and incomes for
impoverished and landless laborers from Java, Madura, Bali and Lombok; (b)
alleviate population pressures on these islands, especially in environmentally
vulnerable areas; (c) promote baLanced regional development; as' (d) increase
food and tree crop production.
29.       The Government Program.  Since Independence in 1949, the Government
has assigned high priority to the transmigration program; however, its
achievements remained relatively modest until the First Five-Year Plan
(Repelita I) in 1969-74, when 63,000 families moved. This number almost
doubled (to 118,000) in 1974-79 and increased even more dramatically (to
535,000) in 1979-84. During 1984-89, the Government hopes to move 750,000
families, or about 3.7 million people.
30.       While transmigration has strong Government support, the program is
voluntary and applicants are placed on waiting lists. (The current list
includes over 445,000 heads of households, well in excess of the absorptive
capacity of settlement sites currently available). Most settlers are young,
recently married and with some farming experience to ensure that they adapt to
their new surroundings. The overwhelming majority are drawn from the over-
populated upland rural areas of Java. The transmigrants are provided, at
Covernment expense, with transport to their new homes, 2.0-3.5 ha of land, a
house, food for 12-18 months, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides for about
three years, and necessary implements. Social services, including water
supply, health dispensaries and schools, are also provided in the new
settlements.
31.       The costs of the program have been rising as standards of planning
and implementation have improved, but they are still in the range of US$5,000-
1,000 per family. They are expected to increase further, as sites are
developed in remote parts of Kalimantan and Irian Jaya where transport is
difficult and infrastructure is rudimentary. Altogether, the Government
expects to spend about US$3 billion, or 5% of the total development budget, on
transmigration during the current Plan period.
32.       Impact of Transmigration.  The transmigration program has benefited
the national economy in several ways. First, in the agricultural sector, it
has made a substantial contribution to the increase in food production,
estimated at about 202 of annual incremental rice production during Repelita
III. This increase was achieved through the expansion of cropped areas by at
least 500,000 ha. Transmigration has also allowed previously landless farmers
to become self-sufficient in food. Second, the transmigration program has had
a positive impact on population and employment in both the donor and recipient
regions. In Java, it is currently estimated that the transmigration program
reduces annual population growth by about one-third. If the target of 750,000
families is achieved, under Repelita IV the population growth of Java will
decrease from 1.72 p.a. to 1.1% p.a. The impact on the labor force is even
more significant. During Repelita III, transmigration resulted in the
creation of about 700,000 new jobs at a unit cost of about US$4,200. During
Repelita IV, if settlement targets are met, the program will create an average
of about 200,000 new jobs per year, equivalent to about 30% of the annual
incremental labor force in Java, at an estimated cost of US$5,200 per job.



- 12 -
33.       The program has also had a substantial impact on the country's
social welfare. It has provided improved education and health services to
transmigrant families and generated a flow of "spontaneous" settlers in and
around the new transmigration villages to take advantage of their infrastruc-
ture, services and markets. It is estimated that about 169,000 families (or
about 30X of all settlers) during Repelita III moved with little or no
Government assistance. Less than 5% of those settled are estimated to have
returned to their original homes.
34.       Finally, the program has had important unquantifiable benefits.  It
has aided regional development and provided an economic justification for
introducing infrastructure such as roads and bridges in sparsely populated
areas. While the total number of settlers seems limited, when compared with
the 95 million people still living on Java and Bali, transmigration has had
important effects at the margin in containing soil exhaustion and erosion in
the most densely populated areas of Java and reducing requirements for costly
public investments in soil conservation or urban services.
Bank Group Involvement in Transmigration
35.       Project Lending.  The Bank has financed four transmigration and two
swamp reclamation projects since 1976, involving total lending of US$438.5
million. While contributing only about 10Z of total financing for the program
since 1974, Bank projects have led to substantial improvements, including
improved site screening and evaluation, new mapping techniques,-better program
fanagement and farming systems, procedures for avoiding waste of valuable
forest resources, higher construction standards, more comprehensive support
services for the settlers and a higher level of economic and social
analysis. Bank projects are directly supporting the settlement of 45,000
families, or about 5% of the Repelita III and IV targets. The main thrust of
Bank assistance has been to finance planning studies to ensure the selection
of suitabLe sites and appropriate designs for the eventual settlements. These
studies, which emphasize economic and environmental considerations, are under-
taken by internationally recruited consultants. They are carried out in three
phases: (1) Phase I - regional studies based on existing aerial photography
and topographic maps; (2) Phase II - preliminary field evaluation of sites
identified under-Phase I; and (3) Phase III - detailed engineering and final
planning for actual settlement.
36.       Only one Bank project (Transmigration I, Ln. 1318-IND) has been
completed to date. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 5157, dated
June 25, 1984) contained very positive findings. After initial delays, the
project met most of its targets without additional costs. Targets for road
construction, water supply and agricultural production were actually
excec'ed. The project was successful in demonstrating that good agricultural
results can be achieved on moderately difficult soils, provided farmers apply
an adequate package of inputs and soil management techniques. Marketable food
surpluses were produced in the areas settLed, and the resulting incomes,
together with future revenues to be generated by rubber production, are
expected to greatly exceed the transmigrants' real incomes at their places of
origin. The economic rate of return on the project exceeded appraisal



- 13 -
estimates by 29Z, and 27% more "spontaneous" settler families were attracted
to the main projected settLement than had been expected.
37.       Other Bank projects are being implemented satisfactorily, although
one of them (Transmigration II, Ln. 1707/Cr. 919-IND) has had to be re-formu-
lated to achieve its original objectives, and the first Bank project devoted
entirely to planning assistance (Transmigration III, Ln. 2248-IND) experienced
start-up delays as a result of problems in supplying aerial photographs and
the slow production of Phase II studies. Steps have been taken to address
these proAems and to prevent their recurrence in other projects.
38.       Transmigration Sector Review.  In 1981, the Bank reviewed the COI
upland and swamp transmigration programs (Transmigration Program Review,
Report No. 3170-IND). A major conclusion was that income prospects from
rainfed food crops were limited and a greater role should be given to mixed
farming systems including tree crops in upland schemes. The report also
recommended that increased attention be given to site selection and evalua-
tion, institution-building, and staff training, and that a major effort be
made to promote better resource utilization through the development of
grasslands and the utilization of timber from cleared forest areas. In FY85 a
study is being undertaken to find means to accelerate spontaneous migration in
orde-z to lower overaLL transmigration program costs per family, and in FY86
the: Transmigration Sector Review of 1981 will be revised. In March 1985, GOI
organized a meeting in Jakarta to discuss the transmigration program, which
was attended by most members of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia
(IGGI).
International Assistance for Transmigration
39.       Other multilateral and bilateral agencies have contributed substan-
tially to the transmigration program. Among the major contributors are the
Asian Development Bank (US$34 million), the Federal Republic of Germany (US$30
million), the Netherlands (US$10 million), USAID (US$21 million) and the World
Food Program (US$66 million). FAO, France, the United Kingdom and the UNDP
have also provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Transmigration.
Other countries, such as Australia and Canada, have contributed indirectly by
providing substantial assistance to Bakosurtanal for the aerial surveying and
mapping of the Other Islands. The Ministry of Transmigration's current
"pipeline" of projects, to be financed by the Bank, ADB, WFP, UNDP, Japan,
USAID and other countries, amounts to about US$750 million.
Institutional Arrangements
40.       Until 1983, when the Ministry of Transmigration was established, the
transmigration program was administered by several Ministries, particularly
Manpower &nd Transmigration, Public Works, Agriculture and Home Affairs. The
new Ministry has made considerable progress in improving the management and
implementation of the program, but needs to do more to increase its effective-
ness. The various steps associated with settlement of transmigrant families
(mobilization, transport, planning and construction) have been streamlined,
but follow-up development activities, such as input supply, extension, credit
and land titling - which are still the responsibility of other Ministries -



- 14 -
have been less smooth, and require further coordination. Financial monitoring
and staff training within che Ministry also need to be strengthened.
41.       The Ministry has a total staff of about 11,100 people, most of whom
work within two large branches of the Ministry - the Directorate Ceneral for
Settlement Preparation (DGSP), which is responsible for planning and con-
structing transmigration settlements, and the Directorate General for
Mobilization and Development (DGMD), which supervises selection of, and pro-
vision of necessary inputs and services to, the transmigrants. Assistance to
DGSP would be the main thrust of the proposed project, as it has been under
Transmigration III. DGSP consists of five Directorates, two of which - the
Directorate of Planning and Programming (Bina Program) and the Directorate of
Land Preparation (PLP) - would be responsible for the major components of the
project (paragraphs 44-45 below).
42.       An agency which has become increasingly important for the prepara-
tion of overall settlement plans is the National Coordinating Agency for
Surveying and Mapping (Bakosurtanal). This agency was established in 1969 to
coordinate land resource inventories and evaluation surveys and to produce all
base topographic and thematic maps for public use. It has made significant
strides during the last fifteen years in developing its staff and technical
capabilities, with assistance from the Bank (National Resource Surveying and
Mapping Project, Ln. 1197-IND), the Asian Development Bank and bilateral
assistance agencies (especially Australia and Canada). To improve the time-_
liness and-quality of its contribution to the transmigration program,
Bakosurtanal has recently agreed to enter into a formal arrangement with MOT
to produce necessary mapping information for settlement planning.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed project was prepared by the Directorate General for
Settlement Preparation (DGSP) within the Ministry of Transmigration and by the
National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping (BakosurtanaL). The
preparation work was partly finaiced under the Third Transmigration Project-
(Ln. 2248-IND). The project wes appraised in November/December 1984. Neg3ti-
ations were held in Washington from May 3 to May 8, 1985 and the Indonesian-
delegation was led by Mr. Sayuti Hasibuan, Deputy Chairman for Manpower and
Population Affairs, National Development Planning Agency. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5529-IND) is being distributed separately. A Loan and Project
Summary is at the front of this Report. Supplementary project data are
contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The project's main objective would be to improve the quality of site
selection so as to promote the welfare of transmigrants and local people
living in the vicinity of the transmigration areas and support sound regional
development. This objective would be accomplished by:



- 15 -
(a) accelerating and expanding the surveying and mapping capabilities of
Bakosurtanal to support transmigration and other development
programs in the Other Islands;
(b)  assisting the Directorate General for Settlement Prep.-ation (DGSP)
within MOT in carrying out a third round of site feasibility studies
and physical plans for 300,000 sponsored and spontaneous transmi-
grant families;
(c) providing program support and training to Bakosurtanal and DGSP to
improve their overall operations and, in particular, their capacity
to supervise theJimplementation of physical plans and settLement
construction works; and
(d)  improving the ability of DGSP to undertake economic, social and
environmental monitoring and evaLuation of proposed sites and
farming systems for both transmigrants and local populations living
in the settlement areas.
45.       The project would finance the following components:
(a) AeriaL Photography and Base Mapping:
a four-year time-slice of the national-mapping program consisting of
aerial photography at scale 1/50,000 covering about 520,000 sq km in
West Kalimantan, Sumatra and East Timor; base topographic maps at
scale 1/50,000 of Kalimantan, Sulawesi and part of Irian Jaya (about
1,100 sheets), and at scale 1/100,000 of Irian Jaya (about 120
sheets); and leveling networks of Sumatra, Sulawesi and par:s of
Kalimantan for a total length of about 9,000 km;
(b) Transmigration Settlement Planning:
(i)  Phase I studies  (regional development maps at scale
L/250,000), comprising the review of existing settlement unit
maps, and land resource and Land use maps, so as to identify
potential settlement areas for Repelita IV and the early years
of Repelita V;
(ii) Phase II studies (site screening and evaluation at scale
1/50,000) for about 330 potential settlement sites in Sumatra,
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya, involving aerial photo interpreta-
tion and field reconnaissance surveys of a gross area of about
20,000 ha per site (these studies would (a) screen potential
settlement sites; (b) assess the suitability of the area for a
particular type of development; (c) determine the local
people's views regarding development of the area for transmi-
gration; and (d) draw up a master plan at scale 1/50,000 for
each settlement); and



- 16 -
(iii)Phase III studies (feasibility at scale 1/20,000) for about 225
settlement sites, of which 130 would be in Kalimantan, 35 in
Sumatra and 60 in trian Jaya. Theme studies would emphasize
non-standard farm models such as livestock, tree crops and low-
land development in addition to the standard upland food crop
model. Each Phase III study would survey in detail a gross
area of about 10,000 ha; determine the technical, economic and
social feasibility of the proposed development activities (in-
cluding determination of Land rights, method of participation
and compensation arrangements for local people); draw up a set-
tLement structure plan showing the locations of roads, village
-boundaries, house Lots, agricultural fieLds and lands to be
cleared; and prepare detailed development plans for the first
five years of settlement and indicative plans for the following
five years.
(c) Program Support and Institution Building: This component would
consist of:
(i)  special studies to support the national transmigration program
including: a detailed review of the Repelita IV transmigration
program, a socio-economic survey of selected settlements in
Central Kalimantan and Irian Jaya, and a limited number of
unspecified studies to resolve unforeseen problems during project
i'mplementation or as a resuLt of the program review;
(ii) continued support for a Central Advisory Group and six Regional
Advisory Groups to assist DGSP's Directorate of Planning (Bina
Program) and the provincial transmigration offices in project
management, accounting, economic and social evaluations, super-
vision of consultants engaged in settlement planning and training
of Bina Program and provincial staff;
(iii) establishment of a Central Technical Support Team and seven
Regional Technical Support Teams to assist the Directorate for
Land Preparation (PLP) by (a- providing liaison with Bina Program
and the provincial heads of HOT; (b) preparing standard and
special bidding and contract documents; (c) organizing main-
tenance of transmigration roads and facilities; (d) supervising
the final designs and construction works; and (e) training PLP
and provincial staff;
(iv) establishment of a Technical Assistance Team to assist Bakosur-
tanal in project management, the development of software and the
resolution of scientific and technological problems in automated
cartography, digital mapping and advanced geodesy; and
(v) staff training for Bakosurtanal, Bina Program, PLP and other MOT
directorates, including refresher courses, workshops, overseas
fellowships, the production of two films and audio-visual aids;
consultant services to MOT's Staff Traini-g Center (Pusdiklat) to
identify manpower development requirements and prepare a major



- 17 -
training program for MOT staff; and on-the-job training for
national consuLtants through training components included in each
Phase II and Phase III study contract.
Project Implem-ntation
46.       The project would be coordinated and supervised by the existing MOT
Coordinator for Bank-assisted projects, who is MOT's Secretary General. A
Project Working Group would be maintained within the existing Settlement
Planning Technical Team with representatives at the Director level from the
following Ministries: Transmigration, Agriculture, Forestry, Home Affairs,
Population and Environment, and Social Affairs, as well as from the relevant
provincial authorities. The Project Working Group would meet regularly to
make recommendations to the Minister of Transmigration on: (a) settlement
planning and construction; (b) regional planning and special studies; (c)
Phase II studies, including the development options proposed; and (d) Phase
III studies, including the choice of the executing agencies for the con-
struction and development of the proposed settlements.
47.       In addition, a two-level consultative mechanism would provide
guidance to the Minister of Transmigration and DGSP on sociaL and environmen-
tal issues, among other matters. Two Technical Teams, chaired by the Director
General for Settlement Preparation and the Director General for Mobilization
and Developmenc, and including representatives of the Ministries of Home
Affairs, Population and Environment, Social Affairs, Porestry and AgricuLture,
would make policy recommendations on the planning of the transmigration
program, including its social and environmental aspects and any proposals
affecting local people. These teams would meet regularly to discuss matters
raised by the Government and the Bank. Provincial and district land
allocation committees, chaired by the local heads of the land registration
branch of the Ministry of Home Affairs (Agraria), would discuss existing land
use requirements and possible compensation arrangements with local people
affected by the transmigration program. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Project Working Group, the two Technical Teams and the
provincial and district land allocation committees would be maintained
throughout the project (Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Bakosurtanal would be responsible for implementing the aerial photo-
graphy and base mapping component of the project. Bina Program would be
responsible for the settlement planning studies and the special studies.
Training of MOT staff would be managed by the Ministry's Staff .-:aining Center
(Pusdiklat).
49.       It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that Bina Program had
selected about one half (165) of potential settlement sites for Phase II
studies and that Bakosurtanal had completed about one-third of the aerial sur-
vey data and base maps required for the mobilization of the first group of six
Phase II and III consultants (Sections 5.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Government would also approve and sign the consultant con-
tracts for the Central Technical Support Team (PLP) and the Technical Advisory
Team (Bakosurtanal) by loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement.) It would be a condition of disbursement for the second group of



- 18 -
eight Phase II and III consultants that Bakosurtanal had completed the second
third of aerial survey data and base maps required for the mobilization of
chese consuLtants and that the consultants' contract for the Central Advisory
Group in Bina Program had been signed (Schedule 1, paragraph 3 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
50.       Social and Environmental Evaluations.  Because the transmigration
program is expanding into more remote areas of Indonesia, the proposed project
would include several other features to strengthen social and environmental
evaluations and improve the design of project components, especially to take
into account the presence of Local populations in the settlement areas and
safeguard their interests. First, Phase II and III studies would be streng-
chened in the field of social evaluations. Consultant terms of reference and
staffing would reflect this point. Second, consultants would be required to
study development options incLuding the participation of up to 20% local
people for a given site (and up to 50% in the case of Irian Jaya). Third, the
Central Advisory Group within Bina Program would assist in supervising and
monitoring the social and envirornmental aspects of the studies by employing
two anthropologists/sociologists and one environmentalist on a full-time
basis. Fourth, Phase II and Phase III studies would be reviewed by the
Project Working Group to ensure that the social and environmental aspects are
adequately covered before proceeding to settlement. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would take all necessary measures to
ensure the settlement of families only in areas already determined to be
technically, economically, en'Vironmentally and socially viable in accordhnce
with criteria satisfactory to the Government and the Bank (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$275.3 million including
US$8.3 million in taxes and duties and US$141.8 million (52%) in foreign
exchange. Base costs are expressed in mid-1985 values.
52.       Quantities and costs are based on the experience and estimates of
consultants working with MOT under the Transmigration III project. Total
physical contingencies are estimated at US$21.2 million, or about 10% of total
base costs. Price contingencies assume domestic price increases of 9% in
1984, 8.0% in 1985-90 and 5% in 1991 and thereafter, and foreign price changes
of -2.8% in 1984, 5.0% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8.0% in 1987-90 and 5.0% in 1991
and thereafter. Total price contingencies are estimated at 18% of base costs
plus physical contingencies. As there are technical limitations to conven-
tional surveying methods over tropical forests, the Government is experimen-
ting with the use of airborne radar and laser mapping systems under the
Transmigration III project. It has been assumed that such systems would not
be used on the areas to be studied during the proposed project. Should these
systems prove to be workable during project implementation, the cost of the
Phase II and III studies may decrease. The applicable amount of resulting
cost savings would be cancelled from the Bank loan.
53.       The proposed Bank loan of US$160.0 million would cover 60% of total
project costs (less taxes and duties). The Bank would finance 100% of the



- 19 -
project's foreign costs and 14% of local costs (US$18.2 million).  The
Government of Indonesia would finance the remaining project costs (US$115.3
million) from its own resources.
Procurement
54.       Detailed procurement procedures are summarized in the table below.
Aerial photography and maps (US$23.2 million) would be procured in eight con-
tracts through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines. Equipment and supplies for the mapping to be
carried out directly by Bakosurtanal, and for the training component (US$3.7
million) would be bulked as far as possible in lots of at least US$200,000 and
procured through ICB; smaller quantities, up to an aggregate ceiling of
US$1.1 million, would be procured through prudent shopping, subject to Bank
review. Consultant services (US$223.7 million) would be recruited interna-
tionaLly in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, foreign firms would be
requested to associate themselves with local firms in order to carry out the
technical assistance and training components which would be built into each
contract. Foreign and national firms would be free to choose their asso-
ciates. For Phase II and Phase III consultants, price considerations would be
taken into account in the evaluation of proposals. For othar consulting ser-
vices, there would be a short-listing of at least five firms by GOI with tech-
nical and financial proposals submitted according to the two envelope system.
Technical proposals_would be evaluated first according to a point system
acceptable to the Bank. After negotiat ions with the highest evaluated firm,
the remaining financial proposals would be sent back unopened to the unsuc-
cessful firms (Schedule 4, Section II, of the draft Loan Agreement). Training
seminars, workshops, courses, study tours, and fellowships (US$4.2 million)
would be arranged in accordance with GOI practices acceptable to the Bank.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT /a
(US$ millionF
Procurement method                 Total
Project element                   ICB/b        Other/c        N.A./d       cost
Air photos and maps               23.2           -              1.0         24.2
(13.9)                        t-)         (13.9)
Equipment and supplies             2.6          1.1              -            3.7
(1.5)       (0.7)                         (2.2)
Consultants                      209.7         14.0              -         223.7
(131.4)       (8.8)                       (140.2)
Training                                        4.2              -            4.2
(3.7)                        (3.7)
Administration and overheads        -            -             19.5          19.5
(-)          (-)
Total Cost                   235.5         19.3           20.5         275.3
(Bank-financedd            (146.8)  ,  (13.2)                        (160.0)
/a IncLuding physical and price contingencies.
7b Including the international recruitment of consultants.
Th Other means of procurement include prudent shopping for equipment and
supplies, training expenses and direct hire of some consultants.
/d Not applicable. Includes Bakosurtanal staff required for map making and
GOI administration and overheads.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by tie Bank.
These figures are approximate and depend on the use of unallocated funds.
Disbursement
55.       The propo:sd loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 60Z of total ex-
penditures for aerial photographs, maps, and levelling networks carried out by
contract; (b) 60% of total expenditures for equipment, materials and supplies;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60Z of local expenditures for training;
and (d) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services, up to US$14 mil-
lion, and 60% for applications thereafter.
56.       Disbursements for most components would be made on the basis of
standard documentation. Statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be accepted
for materials, spare parts, maintenance services and replacement of equipment
purchased directly by Bakosurtanal, in lots up to US$200,000, and for training
materials and expenses. Detailed documentation for SOEs would be retained in
Indonesia and available to Bank supervision missions.



- 21 -
57.       Project works would be completed by December 31, 1989 and disburse-
ments would be finished 12 months thereafter. Because the project is Limited
to a four-and-a-half-year time-slice of the transmigration program and because
the similar Transmigration III project has been generalLy carried out in a
timely manner. project disbursements are expected to be completed in five-and-
a-half years, faster than the average for all Indonesian projects which
disburse an average of 77Z of total disbursements by the end of        five-and-
a-half years. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1990.
Monitoring and Evaluation
58.       Bina Program, in conjunction with PLP and Bakosurtanal and their re-
spective technical suppoit teams would be responsible for monitoring physical
progress and, in particular, for ensuring adherence to the standards set out
in the consultants' terms of reference. Special attention would be given to
the usefulness of the radar/laser mapping technology when the information is
available in 1986, and to the potential impact of the site selection scudies
on local people and the environment.
59.       One of the special studies to be financed under the project would be
a detailed review of the transmigration program in 1987. It would cover the
major aspects of the transmigracion program including targets, the rate of
implementation, budgetary allocations and expenditures, land availability,
physical planning, land cLearing, construction, farm models, agricultural
production and coordinatraon with other agencies.- In addition it would carry
out a socio-economic survey of five selected settlements (1 in Sumatra, 2 in
Kalimantan, and 2 in Irian Jaya) and make a special assessment of social and
environmental aspects. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
review would be carried out by September 30, 1987; that the Government would
discuss the outcome of the review with the Bank by November 30, 1987; and
that, based on such discussions, the Government wouLd carry out modifications
and additional studies, if necessary, to resoLve problems in the project
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
60-.      Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. It is expected that audits would be carried out by the Inspector
General of MOT and by the Director General for State Financial Control (BPKP).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all implementing agencies invol-
ved in the project would maintain separate accounts for the project, and alL
contracts, orders and receipts would be kept for at least one year after the
closing of the loan. The audited accounts would be consolidated and trans-
mitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscaL year
(Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
61.       Quarterly and annual progress reports as well as the Project Comple-
tion Report would be prepared by MOT and Bakosurtanal with the assistance of
their respective technical support teAms. Special attention would be given in
the reports to the impact of settlement planning on local populations and envi-
ronmental aspects. A consolidated Project Completion Report would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the loan.
Project Benefits
62.       The project is expected to lead to the eventual settlement of about
300,000 transmigrant families through its physical planning component. These
people, who are largely landless with little prospect of obtaining land in
their overcrowded places of origin, qualify as "the poorest of the poor" in
Indonesia. Given the worsening problems of erosion and other environmental
hazards caused by intense pressure on rural land in Java and Bali, transmigra-
tion represents a major means of increasing the number of people directly
employed in agricultural production. Rural irrigation works and other basic
government agricultural programs primarily affect those with land who are
underemployed during an off-season. Unlike transmigration, they create few
new landholders. In the long term, even suitable land for re-settlement will
run out and further employment gains wilI have to come from the off-farm rural
or urban sectors. In the short to medium term, however, job creation caused
by industrialization and supporting services are expected to lag far behind
the need for jobs. While the relative costs per job among the alternatives of
"urban indus'trial," "urban service," "transmigration," etc. continue to be
researched through the Bank's on-going economic and sector work, it is clear
that the high and rapidly increasing demand for jobs in rural Java and Bali
will exceed the supply from all of these potential sources, and at the margin
the transmigration program has no lower-cost "competitors" for absorbing this
surplus rural labor. Given this stark fact, GOI has little alternative but to
proceed with a large-scale transmigration and land distribution program.
Based on the experience gained over the past 20 years, land resource evalua-
tion and planning are considered essential to ensure a sound basis for the
transmigration program.
63.       As it is difficult to quantify the many benefits of improved mapping
and site selection and to relate tfiese to the costs of this specific project,-
no meaningful economic rate of return can be calculated for this investment.
However, it is important for GOI and the Bank to be assured that there is
sufficient economic and social justification for the proposed project,
especially since it will identify sites in more remote, and thus more costly,
areas of the country than in the past. In addition to the job creation bene-
fits described above and the containment of erosion and other damage to the
environment of rural Java and Bali, an analysis has been made of the likely
economic returns (based only on quantified costs and benefits) when the sites
identified and planned under this project are actually settled.
64.       The first stage development of the upland food crop model consisting
of clearing 0.25 ha for the house lot and 1.0 ha for the first food crop lot
is likely to result in subsistence levels of income. Economic rates of return
(ERRs) would be low and, in remote areas such as Irian Jaya and parts of Kali-
mantan, might approach zero, due largely to higher investments in infrastruc-



- 23 -
ture. In addition, some families (assuming a normal distribution of "poor",
"average" and "good" farmers) may sometimes be unable to reach the target in-
come of 2.4 tons of rice equivalent, particularly in years with below-average
rainfall. GOI recognizes this possibility and therefore regards these basic
facilities as an initial investment to be followed by second s_.ge develop-
ment. The addition of second stage development, especially when cattle are
supplied for draft power, can result in food surpluses in excess of the target
income and satisfactory ERRs. A second stage development involving tree crops
also points to a satisfactory ERR although it may be subject to the same
potential year-to-year fluctuations in achieving food self-sufficiency in the
early years of development. Because of the greater finan:ial and managerial
requirements of establishing sites based on models with second stage
development, GOI's Repelita IV settlement targets may prove to be ambitious.
The pace of implementation of transmigration is a subject which will continue
to be analyzed through the Bank's economic and sector work.
65.       The likely ERRs for a series of possible models with second stage
development in remote areas such as Irian Jaya and Kalimantan (7Z-12Z) are
lower than in traditional transmigration areas such as Sumatra (lOX-15Z).
These lower returns result from the lack of existing infrastructure and the
higher transport costs involved. Some of the E'Rs, based on quantifiable
costs and benefits only, would also be lower than the opportunity cost of cap-
ital in Indonesia which is currently estimated at lOZ. However, unquantifi-
able economic and social benefits which must be taken into account include the
social value of providing land to the landless, increased 'rood security, and
improved regional development. In more concrete terms, all of the Bank's
economic and sector work to date, as well as the experience of previous and
current projects, suggest that family incomes on well-planned transmigration
sites can reach US$1,000 to US$2,000 per year or higher (3.5 to 7.0 tons of
rice equivalent), which is several times the average level of incomes in the
transmigrants' places of origin. These-are issues of prime social and
political importance in Indonesia which the Government is addressing with the
support of the Bank. Weighing the tradeoffs of competing claims on scarce
development resources continues to form a major part of the Bank's economic
and sector work and policy dialogue with GOI. When the quantified and
nonquantified benefits of transmigration in these more remote areas are
considered together, one may conclude that the transmigration program for
these areas is consistent with the national development priorities held by
Government and supported by the Bank. The proposed Fifth Transmigration
project would support and seek to improve the overall transmigration program
in the most economic and efficient way yet identified.
Social and Environmental Impact
66.       Local Populations.  Although locaL attitudes toward transmigration
have varied from province to province, locaL populations have been generally
receptive to transmigration with its associated infrastructure, employment and
social benefits, such as improved schools and health facilities and lower cost
labor supply, from which they benefit. With some notable exceptions, such as
Lampung Province in South Sumatra, transmigrants are a minority in the
provinces where they have settled and they have not seriously compromised the
interests of local groups in their own provinces.



- 24 -
67.       As the scale of the program expands, however, and transmigrants are
sent to new areas or remote sites, it is inevitable that they will be Located
among people who are ethnically different or who are in sparsely settled areas
and relatively unacculturated. Such people are found in project areas in both
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. The people in these areas are of concern for at
least two reasons. First, those who are relatively unintegrated into the
larger society may be unaware of their own rights and interests or be unable
to articulate or defend them effectively. Second, those who are either
unacculturated or ethnically distinct need particularly careful consideration
to ensure that they benefit from development.
68.       In order to overcome these concerns it is GOI's poLicy:  (a) to de-
veLop transmigration settlements only when satisfied that they are technical-
Ly, socially, economically and environmentally viable according to extensive
studies carried out under the project; (b) to include, on a voluntary basis,
the local people living in and around the proposed settlement areas with a
view to raising their living standards to the same level as that of transmi-
grants; and (c) to give equal access to economic and social infrastructure and
services to all sponsored and local transmigrants.
69.       Perhaps one of the most sensitive issues in new settlement area cen-
ters on the release of customary land use rights and the estimates of equit-
abLe compensation for local users. A recent Presidential Decree (No. 59/1984)
formally delegates the coordination of the transmigration program, through the
'Minister of Transmigration, to the Governorsvand their provinciaL staff.
Under this new decree the Governors will, among other things, be responsible
for ensuring that conflicting claims on the land are resolved in order to
reduce the present high rate of settlement site rejection.
70.       GOI will continue to reject sites for which agreements can not be
reached with local users or when the number of local peoDle is such that the
creation of a transmigration settlemient would create serious conflicting land
claims. For example, in Irian Jaya, the sites proposed under the project are
located in the sparsely populated lowlands which are expected to have less
land rights problems than in the highlands where the bulk of the indigenous
population lives.
71.       The Phase II and Phase III studies would also include an assessment
of the need for other benefits including health services, roads, schools,
ext<sion, and possible resettlement, and preliminary recommendations on the
type of benefits to be provided to local people. As many traditional cultiva-
tors are poorly prepared to do labor-intensive agriculture on one or two hec-
tares, arrangements would be proposed for protecting such cultivators and for
ensuring that their settlement within transmigration sites is gradual and
voluntary. It is expected that there would be more than enough local volun-
teers wishing to settle in transmigration sites in most provinces. However,
particularly in Irian Jaya, where the majority of people have different farm-
ing practices and cultural traditions, site planning in the near future is
expected to provide for parallel development activities for local residents.
72.       The Role of Women.  The project has no component specifically
concerned with women. However, it is a resource evaluation and site planning



- 25 -
project in direct support of the transmigration program, which treats the
family as the basic economic unit. The transmigration program is concerned
with raising rural incomes, increasing local employment and improving nutri-
tional and educational levels for all family members, and each family member
is expected r^ benefit fairly.
73.       Environmental Effects.  One reason for the transmigration program in
general is to reduce the overcultivation of environmentally vulnerable areas
on overcrowded Java and Bali. This project, which supports the transmigration
program, will therefore have indirect beneficial environmental effects on the
areas supplying transmigrants. More important, the primary purpose of this
project is to improve the selection and design of transmigration sites.
Especially as the transmigration program expands to relatively unknown areas
of Indonesia, careful site selection is essential to prevent inappropriate
sites and farming systems being developed. As in the case of Transmigration
III, the planning studies will use environmental suitability as a major
criterion in deciding whether to proceed or reject a proposed site for further
consideration. For example, food crop areas are restricted to slopes under 8%
and tree crops to slopes under 25%. The methodical evaluation, screening and
selection of sites under this project thus has the potential to provide
enormous environmental benefits in both the short and long term.
74.       In addition, the participation of the Ministries of Population and
Environment and of Social Affairs in the decision-making process of the trans-
,migration program would be strengthened under the project by incorporating
them in (a) the HOT Technical Teams reviewing sociaL and environmental aspects
of the program; and (b) the Project Working Group in charge of reviewing and
recommending the acceptance of the Phase II and III studies to the Minister of
Transmigration.
Project Risks
75.       Managerial.  The effectiveness of this type of project depends heav-
ily upon the strength and timely mobilization of the Technical Advisory Groups
(TAGs). In the past, the time requirea to mobilize such assistance caused
deLays in program administration. Under this project the contract with the
current TAG (financed under Transmigration III) would be extended at least one
year to provide an overlap of several months between the two projects.
76.       Another managerial risk has to do with the implementation capacity
of MOT to use the information provided under the project to carry out the
transmigration program successfully. If, because of the pressures to acceler-
ate the transmigration program in order to accommodate the large number or
families who wish to transmigrate, MOT fails to implement the recommendations
of the studies financed under the project, then some of the benefits of the
project would be reduced. The risk of this happening is minimal given the
experience of Transmigration III and the continuing monitoring and evaluation
of the transmigration planning process provided by this project.
77.       Social.  If, contrary to GOI's stated policies, transmigration were
to become identified with forced participation or result in major disadvan-
tages to local people, then the program may be unable to go forward at the



- 26 -
planned rate and the benefits of this project would be reduced. However, the
primary objective of this project is to improve the quality of site selection
in order to promote the welfare, not only of the transmigrants, but also of
the local people. The components built into the project to ensure this
(paragraphs 66-71) would minimize the social risks considerably.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) the selection of
about half of the potential settlement sites to be studied; (b) the completion
of aerial survey data and base maps for about one-third of these sites by Bako-
surtanal; and (c) signature of consultant contracts for PLP and Bakosurtanal. It
would be a condition of disbursement for the second group of studies that the
second third of aerial survey data and base maps had been completed and that the
consultants' contract for the Central Advisory Group in Bina Program had been
signed (paragraph 49). Other special codditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of't-he Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 20, 1985
Washington, D. C.



AIMN I
27-                                     Page I of 5 pges
IimouuEn              - r001*2. UDAoCAL  Ts   20A R
INUOUSIA                           RzvRm     mpn  c   u(WzIou AVUA&os 
HSrT                    (MM RECN RSTEATS) tb
mmIn   i        mintncs INON            acm  acmu
uaotb      1970e  jETDAAd         AIA A PASCIFrC         [AT. A ICA A CAR
aU c-cu ur. NE)
TOTAL                             1919.3      lS19.3   1919.3
ACRICULTURAL                       296.5      307.1    317.3
URS   urm  (15$)                       90.0      150.0    500.0             1091.2                  2108.6
mow  coiwmnam  a cansu
(RILANS OF OIL uQUIVALUr)           83.0       93.0    191.0              567.3                    Ms.,
eOAT    AMVL SZ M
POPULATXOU*NID-TZA  (TIOSAD)    9U80.0   116201.0  152598.0
URN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         14.0       17.1      22.3              34.7                    66.5
POPULAOTION PROnCONS
PoPMAusTX  IN TR 2000 (HILL)                          212.0
STATONA  POPULATION (HILL)                            37D.I
POPUATION                                               1.9
POPULATON DENSITY
PER SQ. sm.                       49.3        60.5     77.9             241.9                    33.7
PM  SQ. Dl. AGRI. LAND           319.3       273.4    471.0            1735.1                    92.4
POPUYATrON AE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 uS                          40.7        44.0     39.5              39.0                    39.9
15-64 iRS                         56.2       53.4      5T.3              57.6                    56.0
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5      3.1               3.3                     4.1
POPULATES GRaloR RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.0      2.3               2.3                     2.4
Amm                                3.7        3.6    .  5.3               4.3                     3.6
CRUDE BmIRTH RATE (PER TWiO)        44.2       41.0      33.6              30.1                    31.3
MC   DEATH RATE (PER TIOIIS)        22.9       17.0      13.0     -         9.5                     8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTOU RATE               2.7        2.7       2.2               2.0                     2.0
FANLY TPLANNINC
ACC* TORS, AUAL (CTUOS)             ..       181.1   3Q51.0
USES (Z F HAUIWODUIIRC)             ..         ..      53.0 /c           52.7                    40.3
INDEX OF E10D PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0      102.0    117.0              123.0                   114.3
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREIRNTS)      86.0        96.0    110.0             114.4                   110.6
P30m11s (GRAS PER DAT)            3S.0       44.0      49.0              57.0                    67.3
OF WSIC! AMIAL AND PULSE         6.0         6.0      7.0 /d           14.1                    34.1
CHID (AG5 1-4) DEATH WEl            22.9        16.9     13.0               7.2                     5.7
LI" EIPECr. AT BIRt  (SA)           1.2        47.0     53.3              60.4                    64.7
INSLT IRT. RATE (PER I130n3)       149.9      120.9    102.0               66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (SOP)
TOAL                                ..         3.0     23.0              37.0                    65.4
URBAN                _              ..        z0.0     41.0              54.8                    76.1
RURL                                ..         1.0     18.O              26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EREI A DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPUIATIOfl
TOTAL                               ..        15.0     23.0              41.3                    52.9
62mB                                ..        19.0     20.0              47.4                    57.0
RURAL                               ..        14.0     24.0              33.3                    24.5
POPULATION PE PYSICIA            46780.0    26510-0  11530.0 /a          7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER iUltSING PISON           4510.0 /f  7680.0   2300.0 W           2460.4                   8U5.8
POP. PER HOSPITL BED
TOTAL                            1360.0     1650.0   1720.0 I.         1044.2                   367.2
URBA                             250.0         ..     700.0 jj          651.2                   411.5
RURL                                ..         ..   3160.0.            2594.6                  2636.3
AIuISIO  ESR OOSPITAL I               ..          ..     22.4 /h           27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF WSEOD
TOMTL                              4.4         4.F
URBAN                              4.9         5.3
RURAL                              4.3         4.7
AVERAGE 10. OF PERSONS/ROW
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
UORAN                               ..         1.6
RUAL                                ..         1.5
ACeSs TO ELECr. (Z OF  IICLUCS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                .          ..



-28-                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
I IE7SRA               - SOCiL IoxOSo D    1
u uONSI        -MRIC uriic                            (920n1  4113) jg
865(SsM  3                                RZ AI IA) A|R
196A1     l1tOt! gsi Si!!         "zk & PmCS=             LAT. MSU^C
ADJUSTED INRLU T RATIOS
PR2OUYI  TOTAL                     71.0        77.0    100.0              102.0                     105.4
MAIL                     36.0       53.0    106.0               105.1                    10643
YUAALS                   N6.0       71.0      94.0               16.2                    104.2
coNDUYI TOTAL                       6.0        15.0      30.0              46.0                     45.2
MALl                     10.0       20.0      5.0                48.7                     4243
VENLU                     3.0       10.0      24.0               43.1                     44.5
VOCATUIA (C Of SZCON  I)             20.4        22.1      13.4              17.5                     35.6
IIJPIL-TEACIRR RATIO
PRDILMY                            35..0       29.0      32.0              31.5                      30.1
SCONDArY                            1*.0       13.0      16.0              23.5                     16.3
ADULT LIEA    ATZ (2)                39.0        56.6      62.0              72.9                     71-5
PASBENER CARS/THOUEAND POp            1.1         2.1       4.4              10.1                      WU.
RADIO RECEIVER/ITOOUmD POP            7.2        21.1      42.4             113.6                    225.6
TV RECEIVEUITNOUSAND POP               '.1        0.8       9.6              50.1                    107.2
NEUSPAPER ("AILT GENEA
NTEUST-) CIRCU.ATIO
PER TRWUBAID POPULALTION            Ur           ..      17.7 JA           53.1                      63.5
CINIA AMBUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        2.8          ..       0.8 T             3.4                      2.5
TOTAL LABOR FORC  (TSO)           34791.0    41090.0  54489.0
FELE (PRCENT)                      27.8        30.9      29.1              33.5                     23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCE)                75.0        66.0      58.0              52.2                     31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.0        10.0      12.0              17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PZRCENT)
TOTAL                              36;7        35.4      35.6              38.7                     32.2
MAIz                              -54.2        49.5      51.1       ,      50.9                     49.3
iEMALE                             20.0        21.6      20.7              26.6                      15.2
ECOUMC DEPENDENCr RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.2               1.1                      1.4
UIWGMS D9RBTR
PRE   OF PRIVATE INME
RECEIVED bY
ZIHZSTSZ OF HorUSEOLDS               ...                 23.5 2s 2.2                                   .
REI 20z OP  EODS                                         49.4              U.0
IWET 20Z oF IOUSEZOLDS               .                     6                6.4
SI 40t or IIWSDEDS   ..       ..      14.47i            ~~~       ~~15.5           .
LOST 402 OF SOUSEOL1DS
ESTIMATD ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (US$ PE CAPITA)
U                                    ..       124.0     1 14.0 ft         188.6                    266.2
RMAL                                 ..       106.      106.0 if          152.0                    164O
ESIMUATED ULATIVE POVET ICOME 
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..    119.0 /I           177.9                    522.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      98.0 7r          164.6                    372.4
znwm  PoP. BELM ABSOLUT
POVERTY INm   LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                ..        51.0 / 2 26.0 /5            ;3.4
RURAL                                ..        59.0           -.o 7        37.7
NOIIT ^AVALAL
NOT APPLICABLE
N OTE S
/a  The grop averaPs for each indicator are populattor-eughted artb_tic mane. Courage of countriem ang the
Indicators depend. a availablity of data ad I. not unifors.
Zb  Unlear otherwise noted. Data for 1960" refer to any year betweo  195$ an  1961; 'ta for 1977r betwee  1969 end
1971; and data for "Meet Recent Eatiutet between 1980 and 1982.
7c  1953; Id 1977; re 1979; If 1962; /i 1976; /h 1975;  i 1980 prima.
JU.l* 1984



M_=     ~~~Iad -lid am   M             -131)3131 4133,
1*4-4    ~ * - P Aid"  (3343           .1U-31          K 3-    .a -K
a.1*4.p.11434.    p.34..  .3.q- P.-  p)-        - 341 a. 333
;MMdg -.4 K-  w"T_ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       3       331243   3)3434434   3   05~        2)3*41-
- )v- p. -va 33432  j313     -33133  33 13.1.3-15 4.13 -.3)3   33 *33
IftWT1 a-  -Vlelpa --4333p.3  3 4131  33-   ( 1143"   3341)31333-53
lim. -p 334 P-3448 p. T-" 3 -%al 1334   . M        .3-        1333  p               331334  41 3-333  53 .3--P3Dist     ....l --q   (3431 -  4-153  31  '3-MAKIUN
p.3 - 043331 04-              .10  33-3-   3333   I33)33                              ft33--1131                   .313143-.1-1  -Odf
tUN   -      at-M 43!1 wm3                                                                                 I-w 13(F-R-1AM 3-3333R. w323N 13333
13133 3  M2 333   3 S-121134 3U;-U-  -141. 342l         31ft   3l33r330                    *.1.P123-ot*3  :14   a,-z-23   3p3
- 13831 3- 33433- 43133- 1 M3-0) 1-3  .0 234   311232-3                            3 13-4 MA4 A.43  233'- 'P33 -             -    13  234(-3 33-,) 311
*314314.3C153                                                                           13PKaNam-.   C  a-"     .    -
p.3   32  4333  335333131333331  123 33339. 133-1313313  p.313   14343  34p 44 343  1 3313 3UK            1332j- A      3*.
p. 3333.31 415.3.4 24   ~~~~~~~~~~~a '33                 new                23    433333.433  a.  -4  (4 G 333341332  31 t-     3*33
.-    -a1.3  3    33  p. 23e Onn-   233433  a.F-33a 310
v 01 -P-   3-133 2-  (P1    .43   )-14             333j5jK-j3132443  323  3114      13                                           -3   3334a:)33313 
31 4    3- (4 3- ~~~   p-03 0)1              i       1                             334133 134  3223.34-3 332301-3  43233133  44133  p. 5,-   -"
Ift-SUMU    m1 IT.S.   33)33343   a. 31t133      - 3333                          AM        43  3  31333 A.-U  23333)54 M4MK-  4 331 14 3343t)3. Al.
-8 -q"            =33313333334  ~.33                 3aJ-                  -.2333**3-.21   10                                     J_4333   p.   1333311.33 -
33334-13341111334 3.@33    p33-  3' 33344.  3333 3333 p.,  [    1- 343       *1-   3120   *3113 333    4310   334-   )4.  34133*3
33344  3-  33-   3-A13. 23    - .10  -.  335  23A23                            -4 P14334- 33133amad-413 .333311 431t     3314311. 53. 2        21-$A-
41 33134313.134- 3135 3-  3233   3233 - (33433) 313433133-A3341144P- P
-UNUB  Usag imm A. m.-m333  333 .-24M  p.id   J"3,-.1:w1-  a    3333  0331 3    33
3-V. be 4313- "L233  *331333  311343-    432-l          T~)     W-                                AN33 313343   33)0)44  P.O.0)  3tt-5 31   . 3321j3,334 r21
3..-         UK33 .1113333  3323-All-MM P3"1' - 0 )1        5)35311W                                  ,4343    1.3p0                1333  3303133-14
33    3333 31-33343 33           333-qp .4  1 433  P33  3231*                        -6 lw                                                        333 -
53 320)34133 30) - 1331e  31  P)33331    33332                                     33341-". -333 -13- 3543343-3233 1433-2I4
M   eU -q   31 3-1113 Ad    33   13W11 .2*.33 3A3344213 3 43.3  1                                      -3333  23431133  -33.1413
333113w31 I   3333333333343  3133.34I 3333331 33113144                                                                                              4
132a4               -153 ,335334NM3  3-31-33   )1333  53p l.~ 33331342S.  P--. 333 am 4313- -II                                   3-25   3         314 311
"P. 34 J  4 31-3Aq 53wo. 4 33-33343. 0p- 3333 31-                                                                  go403  343413  3314-ft 33  F-4-44333 t-M   N-
21 1  ea34  133  333231 5 A.  33131343P3Am      .3    33333334M3I I33                       K. 13  5  - 3- -3 . 41-2-0. - C.333343   34433   33
Mpied ME-1-   J.   "3           -43133-3111 3-114133314 .."v233
333  3103433433  4   . 33  433  333143  331  11)5                          -P" 13   3333 53 N i333413   R441 3131233.I4pWi4334i
31134533313433*4 333 3434 313- 33430  1 353)334  33332323                                           J(*33    .*103    34.43    =1333 41314
3 s-- 3334  *10 3M-213333333n3- 343-3333) -3133   -13lp31111 233 -  33333 -Ml3 13 11333
43333 3311   33-403334 - (3333)33- 1333-l~                                              ml,433331434333 03233  343   .  43 (   LP323   .(334
3-   13231 Small 43143                    SI43433431  33-               313344 331331343  43."3D
3- 3  033   53301 ~ 3p151  31231*313333 33 *3314                                                       133J.  333333
31  32133- 033  13243 - 243333323 3-  123~~                                    P-"43  3433-3333333u3333
Kam -1331=3315333   333-3                    33133                             *335 333  23331 103334d.3  AM 33244  -231.3  331313              4
3334Aw    A." .3343-Id44413           -34        .331433      13                      "33   K3344       31 3333 -434413    --11133 R.33331133 31331313
2132SU-1,3333133     333*33  333313333 N3331224-5                                      343 333)P  333dvlied.  A.3333321433  3413   33 133)434 -P333
.W. "A.   I.,.0  .".A. _11  33313342 513343344-34    433   -v33   3- 333A.%..3313344 333 34 43153 3333
-    3." at      343..l305  334 t312  5  31                 3330                    3-3               -el. "  -MM3-     -ft253  1 33143N  3-3 3-34 US 3I3d-P34
Ms  -3333433314234   333113*344  33112"'44                                               333P2 m2P.-3P.3 3311313434 4314 %213- 343  .41-SUS333321
5I313333 243n33   meas-e Al- 3        1333333331fe af- )343443313                          34  3 31  313334434  P314343-34$-              21444   33
0 "_A_332                    K30330333333 ,                13                      34333l 3    13)3333d-f   g 3333330*3313131333314433
234333p03 133333343  43103  3332333413  3333-       33 93  331   333 1 431143  031   33. 42233413  333  3
1353333-33 1-24  5333333  ~   33  -33(33p.  334           33233 4 *3~          -S3 34   33330 A .1I,r  AMI-  K3(.35  -,33-34.
313134 32314330)33  33333  3-221334  43.3323  43_4.3-  34341  13.33343  33 3                                 P"3 53333  SA33M 0)  3231
333331-3   13354 3  1331*433.4 31 30*213331331)333                 32)3-5 331341   434  .313  2331_   33.                   11.
323-5 3- 3233  33131 333   -  35  333   ~~~~~~~~~a                          -I_153113334 t43      3-30-34  31 333  3331)23..-Iji
m:W-Km                                         lw !!!M~~3343  343143            I'll434 223(        "-43  3334   "111- 3-  `21333 'I-   33113'I'd-
3333m  4  533-            _ P0.33 413  K43343   333213441.1
P- abdel"'U"   "Ut-  di-lit-M          -dbs"_;    ~         ~     *1-3i4 P11       343      2 =AI1  p43233  432142  An 33)15eU t1333
4)313333  3333-t16133314   132  3P2.31334                                                                        .-433343153333   13  31213-23   4  3
401M""  04.. 1413-    A-333- .          3  .4   v *33-3.  a.1 43-2413-                      ..Fl11PS13223
M-91.1          43334233*334J.33d-33331131 -    33333p31 0 
33 0)1331 343- 3343 533 23*33 433143343  333333 33 PR =4  V-                    333P 33t 33 S43.1  3-3.   33333343   3333.13332
3431433k 4324g~34~343~3 343 3~33113133 53 433133333333334 333433334         33333104 33333 3333443 33 33134 - 33133 5P.-343434)3333313334Apr4.4
3-33313   3134.3   33   3333533331  33332   -133-                                        331-M  3334  F-0 = 33 IN          1334  33             31   33
.0)  33341             33     _33  M4333~                                              It4  .                                                   3331 3- 335431 -
331))331314 3  . y d33  P. 1-    114   3   3.Mp   tUi.                                 UIJ             a.         Ua.       I-   -A -      M       N
Mail 1M1;r~*3413334333                                                      43  533333313313  333   33143   321 
3-    .Z.333-  383   -1)3 "523 33pU *m-a  I3233438  333.3333Al                                                      1432324  3   3-33    311333
433305 so41111-133                          333      33.3 33333                                                                              3333 33"13  44*13l
'23334  .333233- 13 33333 3323- 3335 33333333 333313433                3333; 33-133 11. 3333  3-334  3-2 .33143-34   333   3
3-  j3333-3 A43       32  3  33_13333333                                                -o43n31;33312333.33. 23344. le4- 31 P. 1333321  - 333343431 =333331333
343     S-3  335333   3-  33p53  13) 3333  421  V334   4.333   4   33330    .0                               03341           3233313    --. 323 -_ 4 43323.,
4343-3.0dia  44-AP.3  M4  3-  303    33  313p 15   23                             313   .33  34    3333   3 ..43                 P 43 M 452.36... P413 b33(43
.131SURI  :-  dIU- M111% 3333 40)3M    AV 333333333591 13(3  3332-   333142333-P 3-O A1334  33-33  *. 413233 -     3 31d- 42 --I424
I xzma



ANND I
Populatlon    *  155.8 million (mid-1913)                          _ 30 -                                      age * of 5 Poges
GNP per Capitat 1U8560 (1983 mutmate)
IDDONXSIA - ICONSIIC TNDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                            Annual sroith rate CZ) /b
current prices)                 rctuel                                 F Wrojiect
lndicator                           1982          inw   ivui   19UZ   1903  IYoM/& lY983   IV5    19Y   1   L 1Y      i   1VlU
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
grosws uoammtlc product /c        78,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.3    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,631         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Conreuptlon                       62,731        12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Grom. investmnt ld                18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Zxports of CNFS                   19.50W        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Importe of GNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gross national mavings            12,273        33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9-   8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
=COdeflator (1981 - 100)                           91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
kxehanga  rate (Rp per USS)                      627    632    661    909  1,026
Sare of CDP at mrket prices (t)
(at current ;ric2 u)_   Ar    annual increase  t                           b
lS o O TYY                                     1         1YJ5   19/5-50 :S          5   1I85-90
Gross doueatic product          100    100    100    100    300    lt0          J.9       8.4        7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47      32     25     A.      2!        2.7        4.1       3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                       14     18     34      43     38     ?8         5.2      12.0        9.8       3.4        4.2
Services                       32     35     35      32     36    '17         4.8       9.7        9.5       5.6        5.5
Con oattlon                    91     89      79     71     78      76        4.1       8.4        9.2       6.0        4.0
G-ros lvestment /d              8     14      20     21     18      19        4.8       18.3      12.2       2.6        5.4
Exports of GCNS                13     13     23      31     25     24         3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.1        *.0
Iuports of GNPS              *.J3    -16    -22    -22    -21  - -19          3.2      22.1   .  14.0        2.6        2.5
Gross national  avinga          8      9      17     26     19      21        6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3        6.8
Am Z of CDP
19bU              19/0 11lS                                      19          8
PUBLIC  InTACe
=urrent re                                   11.7               10.1               17.4              22.5               21.5
Carrent expenditures                          14.0               8.4                9.9               12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit t-)                   -2.3               +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capital expenditure                           n.a.               5.0               11.3               13.0               10.0
Foreign financing                              0.2               3.5                3.7                3.3                L.1
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHE MNDICA!ORS
annuai CNP grwth rate (Z)                            4.5        -    7.6              7.1             4.1              4.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (2)                2.4              5.1             4.7             2.0              2.5
Annual energr consumption growth rate (2)            2.2             11.2            11.0             1.4              4.6
ICOR                                                 2.2              2.2             3.3             4.8              4.0
Marginal savinga rate                                0.30             0.48            0.28           -0.01             0.29
Irport elamticlty                                    1.2              2.8             0.84            0.57             0.53
/a ZEti_ates.
7W  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81. and 1981 price. fox 1982-90.
7Ec At _ rket prices.
7T Fixed invetment; stock changee are included in consumption.
7e Central Government only, on an April-to-larch fiscal year basim.
Cait Asia and Pacific Region
May 3. 1985



Population    s  155.8 million (mld-1983)                           - 31 -                                       ANNEX I
CUP per Cmitat 'JS$560 (1983 estimte)                                                                            age 8   5of 5 pages
INDONCSIA - BALANCE OF PAThENTS AND MXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEET
(fllIons US  at current prices)
Actual                                 Prolected
lSoU     lYol      195Z      lYo3     198aIa  1b5-       iIYH      lYo7     lSYO
BALANCE OF PA2NEETS/b
r.--W-or-En                                      22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNC (groas)                     17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoil                                   5,588    4,170    3,928    5,368    5,902   6.516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  Imports (including net NFS)                 -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sector                              -4,050   -5,407   -4.802   -3,839   -3.135  -3.801   -4.113   -3,619   -6,540
(b)  Nonoil Imports                        -11,837  -14,561  -15.824  -14,246  -12.805 -13,616  -14,899  -16,462  -22,438
(c)  NFS (net)                               -1,702   -2,602   -1.713   -1,570   -1,611  -1 649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3.  Resource balance                              5,296       424   -3,667        162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                              -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708   -7,287
*        (a)  Interest public debt                       -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                             -2,342   -2,216   -2.428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                   76        67       105       95       100      112      119       125       150
6.  Balance on current Account                    2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7.  Direct foreign inveutment                       140       142       311       193      250      250      275       300       375
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbarsement                             2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortization                              -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1.628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
(c)  Met disbursements                        1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2.289
9.  other capital (net)                          -1,488       -31       455    1,975       287    -143      -104      -418       133
10.  Change in reserves (- Increase)              -2,736       988    3,350   -1,619       -873    -400      -672      -966      -309
11.  Net officLal reserves                         7,342    6,354    3.004    4,623    5.496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,384
Reservw   in months of nonoll import.
+ MrS                                         6.5       4.4      2.1       3.5       4.6     4.6       4.7       4.9       4.5
Memorandum Item
Met toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                      10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                    9.6       7.4      4.3       6.4       8.2     8.1       7.9       7.8       6.6
EXrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d                       -
Gross Dlsbursements                              1 551    2 673    4 192    4,965    3,828
TGonceesiOnsi Loans            658W                                            'O9 5     3
Bllateral                                                         To17 10  'ST w      7
IDA                                             42       69        78        60        54
Other                                            6        7         8         8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                            1 892    1,880    3 503    4,357    3.277
Bilateral                                       117 48       8 404
IBiD                                             331       314      505       489       772
Other multilateral                                52        85      126       160       163
Private-source                                 1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /c             14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Official-source                             T-3O5   IUG7-R   m j1T7   12>U37   TT12T
Private-source                               5,465    5.812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                               9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
Total serr-ce payments                         1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                       823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                       7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9      16.0
Average Interest Rate On New Loans (Z)             8.1       8.7       9.2      8.8       9.1
Wtit  ai-_ource                                  5.4       7.8      8.8       8.7       8.6
Private-source                                  12.4       9.4      9.5       8.8       9.8
Average Maturity of Mme  Loans (Years)            18.8      15.5      15.2     15.1      15.9
LtticiaL-source                                 24.4      20.5     20.6      22.3      20.9
Private-source                                   9.8      11.1     11.1      10.3       9.2
As Z of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity struccure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                 34
Maturities dae within 10 years                                                                               65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due withLi  first year                                                                             7.0
/a  Estimates.
71  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
759 Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7f Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7e  Ar end of pericd.                                                                              East Asia and Pacific Region
7F  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                     May 3, 1985



- 32 -            ~~~ANNEX II
32 -Page Iof4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   P' pose                                      Bank     !DA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,584.59   642.71         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00      -         68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00      -         29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                     -      49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00      -         23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       54.00      -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                  42.00      -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                                123.20      -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                               -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                     .       90.00      -         86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.50      -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           99.00      -         34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00       -         53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            42.00      -         29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00      -         37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                           -      250.00      -         21.68
1958    1981   Swamp ReclAmation                             22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00      -         24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects iY execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate an-d Smallholders V           161.00      -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development          106.00      -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00      -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00      -         84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00      -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00       -        85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00       -        63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00       -        76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00       -        24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00       -        21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00       -        48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00      -         41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and SmalLholders VI            68.10      -         59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00      -         19.69
21.99    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50      -          4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00      -        256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60      -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00      -         25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40      -         21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00      -         66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00      -         28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60      -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90      -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50      -         61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40      -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00      -        241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30      -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20      -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00      -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00      -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00      -        235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65      -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70      -        204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00      -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00      -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00      -         50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -        77.81
/a Not yet effective.



-    -                     ANNEX II
34                       Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30       -        11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II /a         131.00       -       131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party - -28.24          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA lb         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/2   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
-35-                         Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type oi            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles               2.0      0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. DaraLon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hctel       Tourism             9.8       1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles        '   0.4        -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0       5.0      53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -        25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6      19.6     163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             107.6       7.4     115.0
Total held by IFC                                36.0      12.2      48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                     9.5



ANNEX III
-36-                             Page lof 2
rNDONsI;A
FIFTH TRANSMIGLATION PROJECT
(National Happing and 11ettLarAnt Planning)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           1 year
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:         Ministry of Tr!usmigration
and Bakosurtanal.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:              July 1983
(d)  First mission to consider project:       October 1983
{e)  Departure of appraisal missicn:          November 1984
Cf)  Completion of negotiations:              May 1985
--          (g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           November 1985 -
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) maintain a Project Working Group in MOT to make recommendations for
settlement planning and construction; implementativo of regional and
special-studies; and study proposals, including estimates of the
economic and agricultural viability of proposed settlements
(paragraph 46);
(b) effectively utilize (i) the multisectoral Technical Teams to make
recommendations on the planning of transmigration, including its
social and environmental aspects and proposals affecting local
people, and (ii) provincial and district land allocation committees
to propose appropriate compensation for local people and ensure that
such proposals are discussed with the people affected (paragraph 47);
(c) take all necessary measures to ensure that settlement occurs only in
areas where the technical, economic, social and environmental suita-
bility for development has been established in accordance with
satisfactory criteria (paragraph 50); and



ANNEX III
37 -                            Page 2 of 2
(d)  carrj out a detailed review of the transmigration program by Septem-
ber 30, 1987 and discuss the outcome with the Bank by November 30,
1987 (para. 59).



,i .S.:.i:li * ;tl: d;. : : S ::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111 AI
'r:s~~~~~~~~~~~~~l&                                    1;2 ^21 v1                                                                   IANS
i.i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF ClN :I
,!~~~~4 T.NMOMN   RJ
..~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RN ....ALMPIG N  ETEETPLNIG
., .~~~~~~~~~MIYI
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O '
::~~~~~~~~1
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1- A-                                                                        T.
1~~~~~~M            7t>'--n KAIMA tAN    - i ---- 
: Wf I R;  laDl,Aa C{Aa., '                                 _                                     ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
g~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~                                        Is _N  JAr_A1'                  ^                                                  -" 



IBRD A18791
940                          97                           io                THAILAND                               10t                           109'
- 6                     Banda Aceh                                                ,e
South  China SeW
,,/%,<~Mdan                                    MALAYSIA j- 
Kuala Lumpur
APORE~~~~~~~~SNAPR
-0     INDIAIV  OCkAN \i_
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
-(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)                          '}                                   /                                                  ?
Existing Maps at Scala 1 :50000                                Bengkulu"        ' /
Project Aerial Photography at Scale 1:50000                                                                                      0 P /o '7z"
Photogramrnrtric Manuscript Only at Scale 1:50,000                                  / ,f//'                                     w_      _
Project Precision Leveling                                                                                                        S _
Project Phase 11 and III Studv Sites                                                                         tung
6      94e                          970                         loov                          103                                                            6JI
MARCH 1985



112"                                                                                                    2'
l0Og12                                              t              /         l                       121I      INDONESIA         2
.6                                                               f           )TRANSMIGRATION  V PROJECT
.45  SQ'.  .                             /                              I(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
KALIMANTAN AND SULAWESI
BRUNEI                                                         Existing Maps at Scale 1:50.000
[Z]   J   oProjact ase Mapping at Scale 1 :50,000
I|roject Aerial Photography at Scale 1:30,000
F71  aild1:50,000
30                                                                       U    Tarakan             -         Project Precision Leveling
- j (( t Project Phase II and Ill Study Sites
j '-lit- -'J t jjiX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANADS 
-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
MARINDA                                                  - d NA  SSWI~
I       ~~0  50    100    150                                                                  J                                                      w)3    -_~" 
UJUNG PANPANG
109             112                       115                                                121                       12N
(TI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~aa



14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -
VI   '?h A   *.  %'.~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~*ni,~~~~    ~~rW,~~~~'  v't                                                  -*     00A     -!
I'V!C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1                                                                                                                                                                    9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlp   h        w.Il






