Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,( Al. 2 i')-3k^
Report No. 5529-In])
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJFCT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
May 16, 1985
Agr1.culture 4 Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CLURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (May 1985)
US$1.O00         Rupiah (Rp) 1,100
Rtp 1 million  =US$909
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 pounds
1 ton             =  2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita I    -  First Five-year Plan, 1969-74
Repelita II   -  Second Five-year Plan, 1974-79
Repelita III - Third Five-year Plan, 1979-84
Repelita IV   -  Fourth Five-year Plan, 1984-89
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARMS         -  Airborne Radar Mapping System
BAKOSURTANAL - Badan Koordinasi Survey dan PemetaanyNasional; National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Happing
BAPPENAS     -  Badan Perencanaan PemibanLgunan Nasiorial; NatiLonal
Development Planning Agency
DG           -  Directorate General
DGSP         -  Directorate General for Settlement Preparation
GOI          -  Covernment of Indonesia
LRDC         -  Land Resource Development Corporation of the Overseas
Development Administration (United Kingdom)
M4OF         -  Ministry of Finance
HOT          -  Ministry of TransUigration
PANKCIM      -  Penyiapan Pemukiman; Settlement Preparation Office
PLP          -  PenyiLapan Lahan Pemukiman - Directorate of Land
Preparation within DGSP
SEKNEG       -  Sekretariat Negara; State Secretariat
SFSE         -  Site Feasibility Studies and Engineering
SKP          -  Satuan Kawasan Pengembang; Transmigration Development Unit
of 1,500 to 2,000 families consisting of 4-5 SPs
SLAR         -  Side Looking Airborne Radar
SOE          -  Statement of Expenditure
SP           -  Satuan Pe=ukiman - Village units of 300 to 400 families
each
TAG          -  Technical Advisory Group within Bina Program Pankim
TAT          -  Technical Advisory Team within Bakosurtanal
TST          -  Technical Support Team within PLP
..PP         -  Wilayah Partial Pengembangan   Regional Development Unit
consisting of several StPs



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
-2-
GLOSSARY
Bina Program (Pankim) - Directorate of Planning within the Directorate
General of Settlement Preparation
Other Islands           - The islands of Indonesia excluding Java, Madura, Bali
and, occasionally, Lombok.
Kakanwil                - Provincial Head of Ministry of Transmigration
Primpro                 - Project Officer
Pusdiklat               - Staff Training Center within HOT
Sisipan                 - Small scale transmigration settlements designed to
fill gaps between large scale settlements.
This do_men e as a    cd d_u n and mybe sdby rinP I o* in 8h pewfance of
t Wir oiduuts 1  o   m y ot odhewie  diclonsed wid_ut Wod danautria



INDONESIA
TRANSMICRATION V PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .. ............... ....................   iii
I.  BACKGROUND ..................      .................................   1
Introduction ..............      ...................................  1
The Agricultural Sector .........................   ...............  1
Transmigration ..............................................        3
Bank Group Involvement in Transmigration ...................         7
International Assistance for Transmigration ....       ............   10
II. PROJECT FORMULATION                 ............... .10
Objectives ............... 10
Project Rationale ..........................................    11
The Role of the Bank ...... . ...... .    13
Project Scope and Areas ..................     i................    14
Alternatives Considered During Project Preparation    .........   16
Main Issues .................... ............................... ............    16
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................    18
Components ......................................... ..    18
Special Project Features .  * ..     ............................ .    21
Cost Estimates ........              .....................................    25
Financing Plan ............................................ .    27
Procurement ........................................................    27
Disbursement ................................................    29
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .      . ...      ... .......... ...    30
Executing Agencies ..     .......................... ... .............    30
Organization and Management ............ ....................    31
Implementation Schedule ..        ................................. .    33
Monitoring and Evaluation . ............. ... . ............... .....    34
Accounts, Audits and Reporting ......................  ........    34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
November - December 1984. The mission consisted of Messrs. J.- P. Baudelaire
(Mission Leader), M. Cackler, R. Calderisi and M. Zenick (Bank), and G. Cazaux
and J. Bolton (Consultants). Ms. Gloria Davis (Bank) assisted in the review
of the social aspects of the project.



Page No.
V.  PROJECT ANALYSIS .............*      ......    .........             35
Cost Effectiveness......................... ............ ....    35
Economic Impact ............................................ 36
Social and Environmental Impact          ............................    38
Project Risks   ............ :                                    39
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................   40
Assurances ......... .,, ,, 40
Conditions of Effectiveness ..............0 ...............    41
Conditions of Disbursement ..........o.......o...........  ....    41'
Recommendation ......... *..............                          41
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
1.1  Transmigration Programs (1969 to 1989).. ........  ...........0         5
2.1  Repelita IV National Planning Targets .....      .....................    14
2.2  Repelita IV Transmigration Planning Targets by
Covernment Agency .............. ....o........... .                 15
2.3  Location of Potential Transmigration Sites ......................      15
3.1  Consultant Services ...... ..         -o . ...-o-6 ...                 22
3.2  Project Cost Summary ......o.........*...00*.0..*...... ..***    26
3.3  Expected Price Increases ...o    ..................................    26
3.4  Procurement ... o                  .............    ....               29
5.1  Repelita IIr Average Cost per Transmigrant Family ...............      35
ANNEXES TO THE MAIN REPORT
1.   Selected Project Tables and Charts
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Project Component by Year
Table 3 - Summary Account by Year
Table 4 - Financing Plan and Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
Table 5 - Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
Chart 1 - Phasing of Activities
Chart 2 - Recruitment of First Group of Consultants
Chart 3 - Project Start-Up Activities (Bakosurtanal)
2.   Project Agencies (Organization Charts)
3.   Statements of Expenditure
4.   Summary Terms of Reference for Phase II and III Studies
5.   Transmigration Policies Start-Up Activities (Bakosurtanal)
6.   Costs and Benefits of Alternative Settlement Models
7.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
A18787 Location of Regional Offices and Consultant Contracts
A18791 National Mapping and Settlement Planning - Sumatra
A18792 National Mapping and Settlement Planning - Kalimantan and Sulawesi
A18794 National Mapping and Settlement Planning - Irian Jaya



- iii -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
Loan and Project Sumuary
Borrrower:            Republic of Indonesia
Amount:               US$160.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The project would be a continuation of the Bank's assis-
tance to the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in base map-
ping and transmigration settlement planning. Its main
objectives would be to (a) support the planning of
transmigration and other development programs in the
Other Islands by accelerating the national mapping
program; (b) promote the welfare of transmigrants and
local people through better physical planning of settle-
ments; (c) improve the quality and economic viability of
the transmigration program by providing program support
and institution building; and (d) strengthen the skills
of GOI staff and domestic consultants.
The project would include:  (a) a four-year time slice
of the national mapping program consisting of aerial
photography, the preparation of base maps and altimetric
levelling in the Other Islands; (b) physical planning
for 300,000 sponsored and spontaneous transmigrant
families to be settled in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian
Jaya; and (c) a 1987 transmigration program review,
technical assistance and training for the project
executing agencies and domestic consultants. In
addition, the project would strengthen the social and
environmental monitoring and evaluation of the transmi-
gration program by coordinating efforts to solve prob-
lems that may arise during implementation and providing
detailed guidance to the central and the provincial
government teams to safeguard the interest of local
people and protect the environment.
The project ezecuting agencies will be the National
Coordinating Agency for Mapping and Surveying
(Bakosurtanal) and three offices of the Ministry of
Transmigration: the Directorate of Planning and
Programming, the Directorate of Land Preparation and the
Staff Training Center.



- iv -
The major project risk would be that GOI may be unable
to use the information provided under the project in a
timely manner due to financial and managerial
constraints. There is also concern about the potential
impact of the project on local populations. These
subjects have been considered in project design by
including program support, training, revised terms of
reference for consultants, and improved monitoring
procedures.
Estimated Costs                                        LocaL     Foreign    Total
-------(US$ million)----…-
Aerial Photography and Base Mapping    9.0          13.9      22.9
Settlement Planning                     65.0       67.9      132.9
Program Support                         27.9       29.0       56.9
Total Base Costs /a                  101.9      110.8      212.7
Physical contingencies                  10.1        11.1      21.2
Price contingencies                     21.5        19.9      41.4
Total Project Costs /a               133.5      141.8      275.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                    18.2      141.8      160.0
cOI                                    115.3          -      115.3
Total                                133.5       141.8     275.3
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
-----------…  US$ million) --------------
Annual                13.0    13.0    35.0    57.0    32.0    10.0
Cumulative            13.0    26.0    61.0   118.0   150.0   160.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable for this project.
/a Including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.3 million. Total project
costs excluding taxes and duties are estimated at US$267.0 million.



INDONESIA
TRANSMICRATION V PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Covernment of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for
the physical pLanning of the transmigration program under the Fourth Five Year
Plan (Repelita IV; 1984-89). The proposed project, which would include base
mapping, settlement planning and program support, has been prepared by the
Directorate of Planning and Programming (Bina Program Pankim), the Directorate
of Land Preparation and Physical Infrastructure (PLP) and the NationaL Coordi-
nating Agency for Surveys and Mapping (Bakosurtanal). The preparation work
was partly financed under the Bank-financed Transmigration III project. This
report is based on project preparation reports submitted to the appraisal
mission in November/December 1984. In order to avoid an interruption of
current activities, and a hiatus in external funding for the preparation of
settLement plans, the proposed project would need to become effective around
October/November 1985, i.e., when the second round of settlement planning
studies (SFSE 1982), financed under the Transmigration III project, would be
nearing completion.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to:
(a)  Create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor.
(b)  Increase domestic food supply to kecp pace with rising demand.
(c)  Expand agricultural exports, particularly of tree crops.
(d)  Ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water
and other natural resources.
1.03      Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth in pro-
duction, agriculture's share of GDP declined from 40X in 1968 to 30% in 1983,
due mainly to the increased value of oil production. Nevertheless, the agri-
cultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great
majority of Indonesians. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas,
and agriculture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural
households and one-tenth of urban households. Some 16 million smallholder
families produce subsistence and cash crops on 14 million ha, while 1,800
estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil,
and tobacco.



-2-
1.04      Food Crops.  COX has traditionally concentrated on increasing the
production of rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of
Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly (4.5 p.a.) between 1970 and
1983, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation, the increased use of
fertilizer and high-yielding seed and also to the large expansion of cropped
areas under the transmigration program. Estimated 1984 production is 25.5
million tons and it is expected that a large measure of self-sufficiency can
now be sustained. Over the past decade, the output of secondary food crops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6Z p.a. Yield improvement through intensified research and
support services, and expansion of the harvested area, would serve many of the
poorest parts of Java and especially the Other Islands where transmigration is
opening up more land.
1.05      Tree Crops.  Tree crops occupy about one-third of total cropped land
(coconuts and rubber account for 802 of this), and generate about 432 of total
non-oil export revenues. Smallholders cultivate 80X of the rubber area and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper. Tea and oil palm are grown
primarily on estates. Expansion of smallholder tree crops is of high prior-
ity, given the vast area of over-aged and low yielding smallholder rubber and
coconuts, the good market prospects and employment potential for these crops,
and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage in
them. Bank staff prepared a Tree Crop Sector Review in 1984 which is
currently being discussed with GOI to determine the direction of future
investments in this sector.
1.06      Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet basic
needs and to generate employment and production have been developed for cer-
tain critically poor areas of Java and the Other Islands. Projects in Java
are particularly important as cultivable land there is almost fully utilized,
and in some higher watersheds cultivation already exceeds environmentally safe
limits, contributing to increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation
of ports, dams and irrigation canals. GOI is implementing area development,
watershed development and upland farming development projects to address this
problem.
1.07      Bank Lending for Agriculture.  Since the first of 20 irrigation and
swamp reclamation projects for Indonesia was approved in 1968, the Bank
Group's agricultural lending to the country expanded to include 10 projects in
estate and smallholder tree crops, plus projects in fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training,
seeds, upland farming, area development, resource surveying and mapping, and
transmigration. Within the context of GOI's agricultural objectives and
priorities, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a)  A diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to expand
water resources infrastructure in the Other Islands.
(b)  Smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs
emphasizing increased rubber and edible oil production, and
industrial forest estates.



- 3 -
(c) Area development projects aimed at:
(i)  Watershed management to conserve soil and ensure Long-term
productivity in the densely populated areas of Java.
(ii) Multisectoral development targeted at the least developed areas
of the Other Islands.
(iii) Rural works programs to improve basic infrastructure.
(iv) Transmigration, including project. to improve settlement
planning and the welfare of existing transmigrants through
second stage development.
Transmigration
1.08      The Need for a Transmigration Program.  Of Indonesia's population of
about 155 million, over 95 million reside in Java, an island with about 7Z of
the nation's land. Seventy percent of Java's total area is cultivated and the
average population density of about 700 peopLe/sq km can reach 2,000 people/sq
km in irrigated areas. Meanwhile, vast tracts of forest and coastal land lie
uncultivated in the Other Islands. The low population densities in some areas
(e.g., 12 people/sq km in Kalimantan, three people/sq km in Irian Jaya) impede
regional development and economic growth. These facts have been so striking
for so long that programs to wed the underutilized labor of Java with the
underutilized land of the Other Islands have been carried out since the
beginning of this century.
1.09      Objectives.  The major objectives of Indonesia's transmigration
program are to:
(a) Improve living standards and employment opportunities of
impoverished and landless laborers from Java, Madura, Bali and
Lombok.
(b) Alleviate population pressures on these islands, especially in
environmentally vulnerable areas.
(c) Promote balanced population distribution and regional development
throughout Indonesia.
(d)  Increase food and tree crop production.
1.10      The Government Transmigration Program.  The policies of the trans-
migration program for the Fourth Five-Y^ar Plan (Repelita IV) are given in
"Guidelines of State Policy" Chapter IV of 1983 by the National Planning Board
(Bappenas) and in "Transmigration Policies in Repelita IV" of March 1985 by
the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT). The Indonesian transmigration program
is the largest voluntary resettlement scheme in the world. The four
categories of transmigrants are:



-4-
(a)  The sponsored transmigrants vho are Landless agricultural laborers
or smallhoLders living at near mubsistence level. These trans-
migrants receive extensive support from the Covernmnt during the
initial five years of settlement in the form of transport, land,
housing, sociaL services and a subsistence and agricultu'al package
for the firnt few years after settlemnt.
(b) The local transmiiRrants who live in the settlemeait areas to be
developed and their murroundings and who receive the same benefits
as the sponsored transmigrants. The number of local transmigrants
can amount to 20Z, or more, of the total capacity of the settlements
to be developed (par&. 2.22).
Cc) The registered spjntaneous transmiarants who move at their own
expense and settle in a settlement site of their choice. These
transmigrants receive the same amount of land as the sponsored
transmigrants and berefit from the same social-economic services.
But direct government support is Lower and is mostly provided in
form of credit rather than subsidy.
(d) Unregistered spontaneous transmigrants who move on their own to a
site of their choice and who are not entitled to Government support.
1.11      To become a sponsored, LocaL or registered spontaneous transmigrant
the applicants must meet a number of selection criteria relating to Indonesian
citizenship, voluntary registration, Low income near subsistence, knowledge of
farming or of a special skill, being married and below 40 years of age, being
in good health and absence of :riwinal record.  In March 1985 the MOT had
registered 445,222 applications from potential sponsored tranasmigrant fami-
lies; this is much in excess of the absorptive capacity of the settlement
sites currently available. Many sponsored transmigrant families will have to
wait more than four years before being resettled.
1.12      Criteria for Site Selection.  The criteria for site selection have
evolved over the years. In colonial times they were directed towards the
development of plantations through the supply of labor force. Today the
policy is to establish economically viable new communities by allocating land
to transmigrants and providing basic infrastructure for regional development
(para. 3.11). Site selection is not limited to areas easily accessib'le. For
the sake of equity, the policy is also to initiate development in remote areas
including lands along uiational borders so that local people can also beneiit
from the social and economic development resulting transmigration. The
Provincial governments and their planning offices, the Bappedas, propose land
to the MOT in consultation with district officers and village heads. The
final selection of sites depends on the outcome of detailed technical and
economic studies carried out by KOT in three phases. Sites which cannot
ensure sustained agriculture because of poor soils and topography or involve a
high social or environmental risk are systematically rejected.



1.13      SettLement Models.  The MOT has a policy to develop seven sectlement
models to ensure a target income of at least twice the subsistance level,
i.e., about 2.4 tons of rice equivalent per year and per family, by the end of
the five- year period following settlement. The models are upland food crops,
wetland food crops, tree crops, aquaculture, animal husbandry, industry and
mining, and agro-forestry. Of thcse seven settlement models only the first
three have been impLemented on a large scale, with emphasis on the food crop
and tree crop models during Repelita IV. The other models are being studied
and will be tested on a pilot basis during the same period.
1.14      Program Implementation.  Before the mid-1970. both the size and
quality of the transmigration program were limited by shortages of funds. In
addition, pre-settlement preparation through the Plan As You Proceed (PAYP)
system was poor, and agricultural services were frcquently unavailable.
Consequently tranimigrant communities dependent on rainfed agriculture often
remained at subsistence levels. During the first two five-year plans,
Repelits I (1969-74) and JI (1974-79), Government moved 46,000 and 83,000
families, rtspectiveLy.
1.15      In preparing the Repelita III (1979-84) transmigration program, COI,
prompted by its improved resource position from increased oil revenues and
concern about shortfalls in rice production, decided to increase its target
for settlement to 500,000 families over these five years. To achieve this
ambitious target, COI reorganized the transmigration program, giving imple-
menting responsibilities to the specialized line Ministries (Agriculture,
Public Works). Despite a slow start, under these new arrangements Covernment
was able to settle about 366,000 families under the fully sponsored program
and identify another 169,000 families who moved spontaneously. In all about
2.0 million people moved during Repelita III. The tranimigration target for
Repelita IV (1984-89) is 750,000 families, a 50% increase over Repelita III.
Table 1.1:  TRANSMICRATION PROCRAMS (1969-89)
No. of         Repelita I   Repelita II   Repelita III   Repelita IV    Total
Families        (1969/74)      (1974/19)      (1979/84)       (1984/89)/a
Sponsored          46,000         83,000        366,000         450,000      929,000
Spontaneous /b    17,000          35,000        169,000         300,000      529,000
Total          63,000        118,000        535,000         750,000   1,458,000
/a Targets
7i Families with limited or no Government assistance.
1.16      The Impact of Transmigration.  The transmigration program has had
several beneficial effects on the country's economy. First, in the agricul-
tural sector it has substantially contributed to the increase in food pro-
duction which can be estimated at about 20% of the annual incremental rice



- 6 -
production during Repelita III. The increase was achieved through the expan-
sion of areas cropped by over 500,000 ha rather than through improved
productivity in settlement areas. It is believed that during Repelita IV the
impact on food production will further increase due to the continued expansion
of the program and to the improied productivity in existing settlements. The
contribution of transmigration to the tree crop sector has not been
significant under Repelita III, but should increase under Repelita IV because
of a new emphasis now being put on tree crops in transmigration. Second, the
transmigration program has had a positive impact on population and employment
in both the donor and recipient regions. In Java it is currently estimated
that the transmigration program reduces the annual population growth by about
one-third. Under Repelita III it has moved about 2.0 million people and it is
forecasted that, if the target of 750,000 families is achieved, under Repelita
IV the population growth of Java will decrease from 1.7Z p.a. to 1.1% p.a.
The impact on the labor force is even more significant. It is estimated that
during Repelita III about 700,000 new jobs were created at a unit cost of
about US$4,200. During Repelita IV, if the targets are met, the transmig-
ration program will have created on average about 200,000 new jobs per year at
an estimated cost of US$5,200 per job, equivalent to about 30% of the annual
incremental labor force in Java.
1.17      The transmigration program has also had a substantial impact on the
country's social welfare. It has provided improved education and health
services to transmigrant families and local people and has succeeded in
raising the social status of landless farmers to that of full farmers who own
land (2 to 5 ha). It has also generated a flow of spontaneous transmigrants
who usually settle in the vicinity of the new transmigration villages to take
advantage of the infrastructure and services created by the Government. The
MOT has estimated the number of spontaneous transmigrants during Repelita III
at around 169,000 families or about 30% of the total number of
transmigrants. They generally derive their earnings partly from cropping
small plots of land cleared by themselves and partly from working as agri-
cultural laborers. Of the 366,000 sponsored transmigrant families settled
during Repelita III, the MOT has officially recorded that only about 2,000
families have left their new settlements to return to their original homes.
Although this figure may underestimate the actual situation, most authorities
agree that return migration to date is less than 5Z of the families moved.
1.18      The transmigration program has other unquantifiable benefits.  It
has aided regional development and has increased the economic justification of
infrastructure such as roads and bridges in sparsely populated areas. In
sending regions it has reduced soil erosion and migration to urban centers.
The savings on soil protection works and urban development, though not
quanitifed, are substantial. In brief, the total investment for trans-
migration, estimated at about US$1.8 billion during Repelita III or 5 of the
total government development budget, has played more than its due share in
promoting employment and social welfare among the Indonesian people.



-7-
Bank Group Involvement in Transmigration
1.19       Since 1974, the Bank Group has been involved in the evolution of
Indonesia's transmigration program through four Transmigration projects, two
Swamp Reclamation projects, the Transmigration Sector Review and to a lesser
extent through Nucleus Estate and Smallholder projects. In total the Bank has
financed about 10% of the transmigration program since 1974, and contributed
substantially to improvements- in the program. Bank supported projects have
int-oduced several innovative features including improved site screening and
evaluation, new techniques for mapping, better program management and agricul-
tural support services, and procedures for avoiding waste of valuable forest
resources.
1.20      Transmigration I.  The first Bank-assisted transmigration project
(Ln. 1318-IND) was approved in 1976 and completed in 1983. It consisted of
two pilot schemes in southern Sumatra: (a) the settlement of 4,500 families
near Baturaja; and (b) the rehabilitation (second stage development) of an
existing settlement of 12,000 families in Way Abung. Baturaja farmers were
provided with 5.0 ha farms (including one ha of established rubber trees), one
head of cattle for draft power, free agricultural inputs for three years, a
house and one year of subsistence supplies.
1.21      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 5157 of June 25, 1984)
concluded chat the project was successful. The Baturaja settlement demon-
strated that good agricultural results can be achieved on red/yeLlow podzolic
soils, provided farmers apply an adequate package of inputs and soil manage-
ment techniques. Marketable food surpluses were produced and the resulting
incomes, together with future revenues to be generated by the rubber plots,
are expected to greatly exceed transmigrants' real incomes at their places of
origin. The development of cassava industries at Way Abung is a promising
sign of the effect of transmigration settlements on secondary economic activi-
ties. Besides these economic benefits, the development of the Baturaja
settlement has attracted a large number of spontaneous transmigrant families
into the area, and spontaneous transmigrants living in the settlement now
comprise some 27Z of all settlers.
1.22      Transmigration II.  In 1979 Transmigration II (Ln. 1707/Cr. 919-IND)
was approved and was expected to serve as a model for transmigration during
Repelita III (1979-84). The project was intended to settle 30,000 families
along the new Trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi Province and to rehabilitate an
existing settlement of 4,000 transmigrant families at Singkut through second
stage development. Given high program targets, the GOI and the Bank Group
were interested in rapid preparation and settlement and relatively low per
family costs. The project had a number of features to support these
objectives:
(a) To accelerate preparation, the project was appraised on the basis of
preliminary mapping, while detailed surveys and village design were
incorporated within the project.
(b) To increase the pace of development, mechanical land clearing was
planned and its cost and qualitv were to be closely monitored.



-8-
(c) To keep costs low and promote food self-sufficiency, an agricultural
support package was developed for rainfed food crops.
(d) The introduction of tree crops was also planned, but left for a
later stage of development.
1.23      The settlement component of the Transmigration II project encountered
several start-up problems mostly due to a shortage of land. Detailed mapping
revealed that flat land suitable for food crops in the original project area
in Jambi could accommodate only about 10,000 of the proposed 30,000 families.
The project was reformulated to settle about 20,000 families in Jambi and
newly identified sites in South Sumatra and the balance of funds was reallo-
cated to site screening and evaluation studies. Settlement commenced in
October 1981 and is expected to be completed by end-1986, one and a half years
behind schedule.
1.24      The site screening and evaluation component, known as the Site
Feasibility Studies and Engineering (SFSE) 1980 planning program, was carried
out in three phases: Phase I for basic land resources studies, regional
planning and general site screening, Phase II for field studies and site
evaluation and Phase III for detailed engineering and final site planning.
These studies were carried out by consultants under the supervision of the
City and Regional Planning Directorate (DITADA) of the Ministry of Public
Works with the assistance of an expatriate Technical Advisory Group (TAG).
The consultants and TAG were funded by the project. The SFSE 1980 planning
program was only partially successful due to insufficient coordination between
government agencies, poor Phase I planning and inflexible site selection
criteria based on only one farming model. The SFSE 1980 planning program was
also weak in the financial and economic evaluation of settlements. Learning
from these experiences, steps were taken to avoid such difficulties in
subsequent projects as described below.
1.25      Transmigration III.  In 1983 the Transmigration III project (Ln.
2248-IND) was approved. Under the project GOI is extending and improving its
planning for a large-scale transmigration program. The project follows up on
Transmigration II by financing a second round of feasibility studies (SFSE
1982) for the eventual settlement of 300,000 families during Repelita IV. The
SFSE 1982 program is an improvement over the SFSE 1980 program because of:
(a) An emphasis on better Phase I planning.
(b) New terms of reference involving a larger number of farming models
and the financial evaluation of typical settlements.
(c) The testing of new airborne radar and laser mapping techniques.
(d) The subdivision of Phase III studies into Phase III A (before land
clearing) and III B (after land clearing).
(e) The designation of a Project Coordinator within the Ministry of
Transmigration to coordinate the main government agencies concerned
with Bank-assisted transmigration projects.



-9-
(f) Technical support to HOT through the provision of a Technical
Advisory Group attached to Bina Program.
1.26      These improvements have reduced the rate of site rejection experi-
enced under Transmigration II. Transmigration III also includes: (a) staff
training in MOT, (b) agricultural research in support of transmigration, and
(c) technical assistance to the Ministry of Population and Environment to
monitor and improve the environmental soundness of transmigration projects.
Finally, the project includes the settlement of 2,000 families adjacent to the
first Bank-assisted project in Baturaja, South Sumatra, and additional ser-
vices and facilities in the existing settlement. Both the planning and
settlement components of Transmigration III are proceeding satisfactorily,
although the planning component is about six months behind schedule because of
delays in the supply of airphotos which were not financed under the project
and slow production of Phase II studies. These difficulties are being
addressed and steps have been taken to avoid their repetition under the
proposed project. Other components have also been delayed and have as yet had
only a limited impact on the transmigration program.
1.27      Transmigration IV.  This project (Ln. 2288-IND) in East Kalimantan
was also approved in 1983, and addresses several aspects of the transmigration
program. First, it is helping resolve the problems of clearing production
forests by introducing contracting procedures which ensure the recovery of
commercially valuable timber. Second, it should improve transmigrant incomes
by introducing tree crops in the early settlement period. Third, the project
would improve coordination of Bank-assisted projects and help to develop pro-
cedures to facilitate implementation of the GOI transmigration program. Due
to delays in contracting and mobilizing equipment, construction activities
started in November 1984, but are now progressing satisfactorily.
1.28      Swamp Reclamation I.  In 1980 the Bank approved its first project in
tidal swamp reclamation for transmigration (Ln. 1958-IND). The project would
reclaim some 9,000 ha in Sumatra for 3,200 families and demonstrate improved
methods of implementation, land reclamation, land clearing and agricultural
development. About 30X of the families have now been settled.
1.29      Swamp Reclamation II.  In May 1984 the Bank approved the Swamp
Reclamation II project (La. 2431-IND) designed to reclaim 30,000 ha of tidal
swamps and settle 11,500 transmigrant families in South Sumatra Province. The
project will also supports institution building for the Directorate of Swamp
Reclamation (P3S), lowland agricultural research and studies for future swamp
reclamation and rehabilitation projects.
1.30      Transmigration Sector Review.  In 1981 the Bank reviewed the GOI
upland and swamp transmigration programs (Transmigration Program Review,
Report No. 3170-IND). A major conclusion was that income prospects from
rainfed food crops were limited and a greater role should be given to mixed
farming systems including tree crops in upland schemes. The report also
recommended that increased attention be given to site selection and evalu-
ation, institution building, and staff training, and that a major effort be
made to promote better resource utilization through the development of
grasslands and the utilization of timber from forested areas which are clean



- 10 -
cleared. In FY8S a study is being undertaken to find means to accelerate
spontaneous migration to lower overall transmigration program costs per
family, and in FY86 the Transmigration Sector Review of 1981 will be updated.
International Assistance for Transmigration
1.31      The international and bilateral financing agencies have sub-
stantially contributed to the transmigration program. Among the major con-
tributors are the World Food Program (WFP) (US$66.3 million) in Sumatra,
Kalimantan and Sulawesi; the Asian Development Bank (ADB) (US$34.3 million) in
Sulawesi; USAID (US$20.8) mostly in the Luwo Project, Sulawesi; the Federal
Republic of Germany (DM 86.5 million) mostly in the East Kalimantan
Transmigration Development Project (TAD); and the Netherlands (DC 26 million)
mostly in Bangkulu. UNDP/FAO, UNDP/OPE, France and United Kingdom are also
providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Transmigration. In addition
to this direct assistance other countries such as Australia and Canada have
contributed indirectly by providing substantial assistance to Bakosurtanal for
the mapping of the Other Islands. The MOT plans on a pipeline of projects for
Repelita IV to be financed with the assistance of the Bank, ADB, WFP, UNDP,
Japan, USAID and other members of the IGGI countries. External financing is
expected to be US$750 million including the proposed project.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Objectives
2.01      Transmigration V is a mapping, resource evaluation and settlement
planning project to support Indonesia's transmigration and regional develop-
ment programs. It would improve and expand the surveying, mapping and plan-
ning of large, relatively unknown areas of Indonesia and improve the economic
and social analyses undertaken in site planning. The project's first objec-
tive is to improve the quality of site selection in order to promote the
welfare of transmigrants and local peopLe living within the transmigration
areas and provide a sound basis for regional development over the 10 year
period following the arrival of settlers. The second objective is to promote
institution building through coordination of training activities and technical
assistance to the implementing agencies. The third objective is the develop-
ment of the national consuLtant industry by the association of foreign and
national consultants under the large consultant component. The project would
accomplish these objectives by:
(a)  Accelerating and expanding the surveying and mapping capabilities of
the National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(Bakosurtanal) to support transmigration and regional development
programs in the Other Islands.
(b)  Assisting the Directorate General for Settlement Preparation (DGSP)
within the MOT in carrying out physical plans and development
studies for 300,000 sponsored, local and spontaneous transmigrant
families as part of the settlement target fir Repelita IV.



- 11 -
(c)  Providing program support and training to Bakosurtanal and DGSP to
improve their overall operations and in particular their capacity to
supervise the implementation of physical plans and settlement
construction works.
(d) Improving the ability of DGSP t2 undertake economic, social and
environmental monitaring and evaluation of proposed sites and
farming systems for both transmigrants and local populations living
in the settlement areas.
(e) Providing for the transfer of plans for settlements based on tree
crops to the Directorate General of Estates within the Ministry of
Agriculture for implementation under their Nucleus Estate and
SmallhoLder projects.
(f) Ensuring skill transfer and training to national consulting firms
working in joint venture with foreign consultant firms by including
a training component in each contract.
Project Rationale
2.02      Basic resource evaluation is one of the most important tasks facing
OI as it implements its agricultural and regional development strategy.
Large areas of the country remain unsurveyed and unevaluated. The continued
surveying, mapping and planning of these large, relatively unknown lands is
crucial in order to support GOI's transmigration and regional development
programs.
2.03      The planning provided under the project will have several beneficial
effects. Firs:, it is one of the best means to ensure the economic welfare of
future settlers while protecting the interests of local people living in the
settlement areas. Methodical planning in three phases over a period of three
to four years provides ample time to consider all aspects of settlement
development and adjust plans to local conditions. Second, planning under this
project will include sites for sponsored, local and spontaneous transmigrants
which were not included in previous planning programs. The planning for local
and spontaneous transmigrants should cLarify the situation of numerous illegal
squatters who move into settlement areas during the planning process. Third,
the planning will be sufficiently broad in scope so that even if GOI does not
meet its settlement targets during Repelita IV, the plans will not be lost as
they will still be useful for other regional or agricultural (e.g., tree
crops) projects or for subsequent transmigration programs.
2.04      The proposed project would build upon the work of the previous Bank-
assisted projects by financing a third round of SFSE studies, aerial photo-
graphs and base maps, and technical assistance to the main GOI agencies
involved in resource evaluation and settlement planning. As the -transmigra-
tion program has evolved, the methodical step-by-step approach to settlement
planning has proved to be the most economic and efficient means to proceed.
The specific rationales for the major project components are discussed below.



- 12 -
2.05      Base Mapping.  Indonesia's base mapping is inadequate and
incomplete. Over the past eight years an effort has been made by Bakosurtanal
and other Government agencies, with the assistance of the Bank-financed
National Resource Survey and Mapping Project (Loan 1197-IND) and bilateral
aid, to produce a new series of base maps at scales of 1/100,000, 1/50,000 and
1/25,000.
2.06      Bakosurtanal has estimated that without external assistance it would
take more than 17 years to complete the national base mapping program and that
before completion of this program many of the existing aerial photographs
would become obsolete. To avoid the loss of valuable mapping material,
Bakosurtanal has designed a seven-year program to complete the nation's base
mapping and has requested the Bank's assistance during the first four years.
2.07      The present lack of reliable base maps and of altimetric networks,
particularly in the Other Islands, has hampered the transmigration program and
regional deveLopment projects. Some settlements have been mislocated as a
result of poor Phase I studies, large-scale aerial photographs for settlement
planning have been taken over inappropdiate areas, and many sites had to be
rejected during Phase 1I studies. To overcome the lack of base maps, under
the Transmigration III project consultants have been engaged by MOT (DGSP) to
prepare maps at scaLe 1/50,000. The production of these maps under the
supervision of an agency which is not specialized in mapping has been time
consuming, inaccurate and expensive.
2.08      To improve the quality of settlement planning and realize economies
of scale, GOI has decided that under the proposed project all base maps and
aerial photography needed for the transmigration program would be carried out
by a single agencv, namely Bakosurtanal.
2.09      Settlement Planning.  The amount of work involved in settlement
planning under the proposed project is too large (about 6.5 million ha) and
too diverse to be undertaken by the staff of Bina Program Pankim alone. The
recruitment of experienced international and local consulting firms to assist
Bina Program in its technical and programming functions is essential for the
sound preparation of settLement pLans within the time constraints imposed by
the transmigration program.
2.10      The settlement planning component would be implemented in three
phases, as in the previous study programs, with added emphasis on several
innovative features concerning new mapping techniques, criteria for site
selection and feasibility studies, and the preparation of settlement and
deveLopment plans. Automated mapping with airborne radar/laser remote sensing
devices may be used depending on the results of the pilot mapping projects
presently carried out under the Transmigration III project (see para. 1.25).
The use of these advanced technologies has become desirable in view of the
large areas (2.0 million ha) to be surveyed annually in remote tropical
forests. If successful, they would increase the speed and accuracy of
topographical surveys and may also reduce costs. The project will also
include other innovative features such as the study of potential sites in
flood plain areas and will evaluate a number of new settLement models based on
small-scale irrigation and drainage works, agro-forestry activities (rattan



- 13 -
and sago), small-scale industriGs (limestone quarrying), fish farming, live-
stock, tree crops and others. The major criteria for the implementation of
these new models will be their replicability and economic viability.
2.11      Program Support and Institution Building.  MOT was created in 1983
by combining directorates from several ministries (Annex 2) and faces more
implementation problems than would an older institution. Organizational
changes since MOT's creation, including the establishment of new coordinating
bodies and the decentralization of some operations, will have beneficial
effects in the medium term (Annex 2), but in the short term direct program
support in the form of technical assistance and training is required to
improve the quality of settlements. Management support to the Ministry at a
central level is being provided through the Transmigration IV project.  Direct
program support to DGSP has also been supported by the Bank under the Transmi-
gration III project through the financing of a Technical Advisory Group
attached to Bina Program. Direct prog-am support to DGSP needs to be con-
tinued and expanded to the Directorate of Land Preparation and Physical
Infrastructure (PLP).
2.12      Training.  In addition tc direct program support, the organizational
changes described above have also increased the need for staff training within
DGSP. On-the-job training through the Technical Advisory Groups at both
centraL and regional levels, and formal training through courses, workshops
and overseas fellowships, are also required. All training activities carried
out under the project will be coordinated by the Staff Training Center
(Pusdiklat) which also needs some assistance. In addition, the local consul-
tant industry needs strengthening to cope with the large transmigration
planning program. The project will ensure that skill transfer and on-the-job
training is provided through each major consultant contract.
The Role of the Bank
2.13      The Bank continues to supporr COI's commitment to improving the
quality of the transmigration program in order to meet its national and sector
goals, including increased regional food supply, poverty alleviation, develop-
ment of lesser developed regions, employment creation, reduction of population
pressure in critical areas, training and institution building. Bank financial
assistance has been requested because of the scale and scope of the proposed
program, which is not attractive to commercial lenders, and because of the
continuing success of Bank assistance in the similar Transmigration III proj-
ect. Through Transmigration III and other Bank-assisted projects, MOT has
introduced higher construction standards for transmigration settlements, more
comprehensive support services for transmigrants and a higher level of
economic and social analysis of potential sites, which are now being adopted
for the rest of the transmigration program. As the transmigration program
proceeds, the number of settlements to be planned increases and the studies
become more detailed and complex. The demand for program support, technical
assistance, and training also increases which makes Bank assistance vital.
The Bank's assistance in transmigration (US$438.5 million committed to date)
has played and would continue to play a constructive role in improving
administrative capacity and reducing implementation constraints.



- 14 -
Project Scope and Areas
2.14      The scope of the physical planning component of the proposed project
has been derived from the planning requirements for the transmigration targets
for RepeliL. IV as shown below;
Table 2.1: REPELITA IV NATIONAL PLANNING TARGETS
No. of Families /a
Repelita IV settlement target                                        750,000
Repelita V first year pipeline                                       250,000
Subtotal                                                      1,000,000
Less existing studies from Repelita III                              100,000
Net planning requirement for Repelita IV                             900,000
/a   Sponsored, local and spontaneous transmigrants.
2.15      It is possible that despite improved planning and administrative
procedures provided under the project, the actual settlement during the
Repelita IV period may be less than GOI's target of 750,000 families, mostly
because of delays already observed in the first year of Repelita IV and
increased difficulties of access and implementation in remote areas of
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. The number of spontaneous transmigrants may also
be lower than expected, unless GOI sets up special programs to promote
inexpensive transport to those remote regions. The total planning target for
900,000 families under Repelita IV should be considered in this light.
2.16      According to GOI's plans the planning for this target of 900,000
families would be carried out by various government agencies as follows:



- 15 -
Table 2.2: REPELITA IV TRANSMIGRATION PLANNING TARGETS BY GOVERNMENT AGENCY
Agency                                               No. of Families /a
Ministry of Transmigration
DC Settlement Preparation (Bina Program):
Transmigration III project (ongoing)                       200,000
Transmigration V project (proposed)                        300,000
Local Budget (APBN)                                        150,000
Ministry of Agriculture
DG Estates:
Nucleus Estate and Smallholder projects                    130,000/b
Ministry of Public Works
DG Wlater Resources Development:
Swamp Reclamation and
Irrigation projects                                         80,000/c
Ministry of Home Affairs
Provincial Offices (in liaison with DGSP):
Small-scale projects (Sisipan)                              40,000
Total                                                      900,000
/a Sponsored, local and spontaneous.
Tb Phase II studies will be carried out by MOT.
Tc Phase III studies will be carried out by MOT.
2.17      Physical planning for the 300,000 sponsored, local and spontaneous
transmigrant families to be assisted under the proposed project requires the
identification of about 330 potential settlement sites (Phase II studies) and
feasibility studies for about 225 sites (Phase III studies) as indicatd in the
following table.
Table 2.3: LOCATION OF POTENTIAL TRANSMIGRATION SITES
Potential                                  Potential
settlement sites      Feasibility studies   number of
Regions                (Phase II studies)    (Phase III studies)   families
West Kalimantan                 75                       45              60,000
Central Kalimantan              80                      50               65,000
East Kalimantan                 75                       35              75,000
Irian Jaya                      60                      60               55,000
Sumatra                         40                       35              45,000
Total                        330                     225             300,000



- 16 -
The exact location of these potential sites is being pLotted by Bina Program
Pankim an photo maps at scale 11250,000 under the project start-up activities
financed under the on-going Transmigration III project. Half of these sites
(165) would be selected by October 1985 as a condition of loan effective-
ness. The other half should be ready six months later by April 1986. This
will allow the planning consultants to mobilize on schedule. Maps
A18791/92/94 of Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya show the approximate loca-
tions of the potential settlement sites to be studied under the project. It
is noteworthy that the location of these sites has been based on preliminary
land resource and land use maps carried out by Bina Program Pankim and that in
the case of Irian Jaya they are all placed in the sparsely populated low-land
areas (mostly along the coast), and not in the central highlands where most of
the local people live.
Alternatives Considered During Project Preparation
2.18      The main alternatives considered during project preparation were as
follows:
(a) The aerial photography and mapping component was expanded and merged
with the national mapping program carried out by Bakosurtanal to
realize economies of scale and improve the quality of maps used for
settlement planning. The alternative initially considered by COI
was to implement these components through DGSP as under the Transmi-
gration III project. Experience has shown that this alternative
would have led to higher costs, less accuracy and deLays in settle-
ment planning.
(b) The study of alternative farm models was initiated during project
preparation, including small-scale irrigation and limestone
quarrying in Sumatra, agro-forestry based on rattan in Kalimantan
and sago development in Irian Jaya. These studies showed the need
to diversify the number of farm models and to include in the Phase
II and III studies development options other than those based on dry
land food crops. Accordingly, the TORs for the studies financed
under this project have been revised to address this.
(c) Program support to PLP (Directorate for Land Preparation) was
considered to ensure the proper utilization of the physical plans
and improve the quality of construction works. The alternative of
not providing program support to PLP could have led to a waste of
resources in both settlement planning and construction, due to the
lack of experience of the provincial transmigration offices.
Main Issues
2.19      Laser and Radar Mapping.  These two "state of the art" mapping
systems are being tested in Indonesia under the Transmigration III project,
and their use will depend on their technical and economic performance. A
detailed evaluation of these systems should be undertaken by MOT before April
1986 to determine whether their utilization is warranted under the proposed
project. If the systems are successful, some cost savings could result. How-



- 17 -
ever, project cost estimates have been conservatively based on conventional
mapping and surveying methods.
2.20      Institution Building.  Previous transmigration efforts have been
hampered by organizational problemi (Annex 2). Although the situation con-
tinues to improve, not all of the Bank's recommendations have yet been adop-
ted. However, this should not hold up the proposed project, since improve-
ments have been observed and are expected to continue during the period
covered by the project. For example, in the area of spontaneous transmigra-
tion, Bank staff are currently assisting the Government through the economic
and sector work program.
2.21      Local Populations.  A significant part of Indonesia's future
transmigration program is expected to be in KAalimantan and Irian Jaya, where
local populations are ethnically and culturally different from the mostly
Javanese transmigrants. While local attitudes towards the transmigration
program have varied among provinces, there has been a remarkable receptiveness
to settlers in most parts of Indonesia. Some provinces, such as South
Sumatra, are so convinced of the regional dvelopment benefits of the program
that the locaL authorities have consistently sought higher levels of new
arrivals. One of the reasons for this receptive attitude has been that large
areas of Sumatra, Kalimantan Arid Sulawesi contained land which was plainly
available for development and was not required by local residents. However,
as the transmigration program has grown, it bas become increasingly difficult
to avoid populated areas, as suitable wilderness areas have become scarce.
Land rights are an increasingly important element in site selection decisions,
and many sites have been rejected purely on the basis of prior land claims.
The determination of existing land rights is complicated in many areas by
traditional law (or adat) and culture, expecially in remote "tribal" areas
where hunting and gathering or shifting cultivation are the predominant means
of economic subsistence. Arrangements for ensuring the availability of land
for transmigration and other purposes are the focus of considerable attention
within Indonesia and are expected to become even more systematic during
project implementation.
2.22      For several years, it has been Government policy that 10% of
transmigrant plots should be made available to local people. Recently, it has
been decided that this should be raised to 20% and, in Irian Jaya, GOI has
announced that up to 50% of the places could be allocated to local appli-
cants. While it is unlikely that such a large number of pLaces will be taken
up by local people, the policy is indicative oF Covernment's concern that con-
flicts should not arise between newcomers and the local population as a result
of unfavorable comparisons between the living conditions of the transmigrants
and the circumstances of the indigenous population.
2.23      The Bank's policy is to assist projects only when satisfied that the
Borrower supports and can implement measures that will effectively safeguard
the integrity and well-being of the local people who may be affected. Careful
consideration was given during project formulation Eo ensure that this
requirement would be fully satisfied (paras. 3.12, 5.09 and Annex 5 summarize
the GOI policies related to local populations).



- 18 -
2.24      Implementation Capability.  A recurring question has been whether
cOr will be able to meet its settlement target during Repelita IV and there-
fore make full and timely use of the Btudies prepared under the proposed pro-
ject. During Repelita III, GOI has demonstrated its abiLity to achieve set-
tlement targets. Given this experience, it is reasonable to expect that the
studios to be financed under the proposed project will be put to effective
use. Should the targete not be met the plans prepared under the project would
be used for the Repelita V transmigration program and for other regional
development projects.
III. THE PROJECT
Components
3.01      The main project components are:
(a)  Aerial Photography and Base Mapping consisting of a national mapping
program for the Other Islands and Land resource and land use base
maps for Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya.
(b)  Transmigration Settlement Planning for 300,000 sponsored and
spontaneous transmigrant families in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian
Jaya, including regional, site screening and setilement feasibility
studies.
(c)  Program Support and Institution Building for DGSP, a 1987
transmigration program review, technical advisory teams, and
training for the project implementing agencies and the national
consuLtant industry.
3.02      Details of project components are maintained in the Project File
(Annex 7) and are summarized below:
(a)  Aerial Photography and Base Mapping to be carried out by
Bakosurtanal. This component would be a follow-up of the National
Resource Survey and Mapping project (Loan 1197-IND). It would
encompass a four-year time-slice of the national mapping program
consisting of aerial photography at scale 1/50,000 covering about
520,000 sq km in West Kalimantan, Sumatra and East Timor; base
topographic maps at scale 1/50,000 of Kalimantan, Sulawesi and part
of Irian Jaya (about 1,100 sheets), aiid at scale 1/100,000 of Irian
Jaya (about 120 sheets); and leveling networks of Sumatra, Sulawesi
and parts of Kalimantan for a totaL length of about 9,000 km (Maps
No. A 18791/92/94). A detailed description of this component is
given in the Project File (Working Paper No. C5).
(b)  Transmigration Settlement Planning to be carried out by consultant
firms under the supervision of Bina Program Pankim. This component
would be a follow-up of the Transmigration lII Project
(Loan 2248-IND). It would consist of:



- 19 -
(i) Phase I studies (regional development maps at scale 1/250,000).
Existing studiefs would be reviewed taking into account (a)
existing regional devei?pment units (WPP) consisting of several
settlement units (SKP - )X (b) land resource and land use maps
carried out by LRDC at scale 1/250,000 of Sumatra, Irian Jaya
and parts of Kalimantan based on interpretation of satellite
and radar imagery and aerial photography; and (c) maps and
additional information provided by other agencies. New Phase I
studies for potential sites would also be drawn up to support
the Rapolita V settlement planning program.
tii)  Phase II studies 2/ (site scraening and evaluation at scale
1/50,000) for about 330 potential settlements sites in Sumatra,
Kilimantan and rrian Jaya based on TORs which include studies
of the social and economic impact of settlements on the local
population and alternative development options.  Each *tudy
will consist of aerial photo interpretation and field recon-
naissance surveys of about a 20,000 ha gross area. The object-
ives of Phase II studies are to (a) screen potential settlement
units; (b) assess the suitability of the area for a particular
type of development; (c) study the local people living in and
around the areas to be developed and datermine their attitudes
and needs with respect to transmigration; and (d) draw up a
master plan at scale 1/50,000 and a preliminary development
plan of each settlement unit.
(iii) Phase III studies 21 (feasibility at scale 1/20,000) for about
225 settlement sites of which 130 are in Kalimantan, 35 in
Sumatra and 60 in Irian Jaya. These studies would be based on
revised TORs to give more emphasis to non-standard farm models
such as livestock, tree cropc and wet land development in addi-
tion to the standard upland food crop model. Each Phase III
study will survey in detail a gross area of about 10,000 ha.
These studies will (a) determine the technical, economic and
social feasibility of the development activities proposed under
Phase II studies; (b) determine the land rights of local
people, the method of participation and the compensation
arrangements; (c) draw up a settlement structure plan at scale
1/20,000 showing the locations of the roads, village boundar-
ies, the areas reserved for house lots, local people and agri-
cultural fields, and lands to be cleared; and (d) prepare a
detailed development plan for each settlement unit for the
first five years of settlement and an indicative development
plan for the following five years.
1/ Satuan Kawasan Pengembang - Transmigration settlement units of 1,500 to
2,000 families subdivided into 4 to 5 villages of 300 to 400 families
each.
2/  Summary TORs for Phase II and III studies are presented in Annex 4.



- 20 -
(c) Program Support and Institution Building. This component, the
background of which is given in Annex 2, would consist of:
(i) Special studies carried out by consultants to _ pport the
nationaL transmigration program and adjust or develop new pol-
icies. These studies include a detailed review of the transmi-
gration program in 1987 consisting, inter alia, of agricultural
models, physical implementation, budgetary allocations, expen-
ditures, and social and environmental aspects. The 1987
program review will also include a socio-economic evaluation of
selected settlements in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. A
limited number of related special studies would be undertaken
to resolve unforeseen problems during project implementation or
as a result of the 1987 program review.
(ii) Continued Support for a Central T2Shnical Adviscry Group (TAG)
and six Regional Advisory Groups - to assist Bina Program
Pankim and the provincial transmigration offices in project
management, accounting, economic and social evaluations,
supervision of national and foreign consultants engaged in
settlement planning and training of Bina Program and provincial
staff.
Ciii) Establishment of a Central Technical Support Team (TST) and
Seven Regional Technical Teams - to assist the Directorate for
Land Preparation (PLP) by (a) providing liaison with Bina Pro-
gram and the provincial heads of HOT (Kakanwils); (b) preparing
standard and special bidding and contract documents; (c) organ-
izing maintenance of transmigration roads and facilities;
(d) supervising the final designs and construction works;
(e) developing a monitoring information system; and (f) train-
ing the PLP and provincial staff.
(iv) Establishment of a Technical Advisory Team (TAT) to assist
Bakosurtanal in project management, the development of software
and the resolution of scientific and technological problems in
automated cartography, digital mapping and advanced geodesy.
(v) Training for Bakosurtanal, Bina Program, PLP and other MOT
staff including refresher courses, workshops, overseas fellow-
ships, the production of two fiLms and audio-visual aids. In
addition, the project will provide consultant services to the
Staff Training Center (Pusdiklat) to carry out a skill gap
3/  The Regional TAGs are located in Palembang/Pekanbaru (Sumatra); Pontianak,
Palangkaraya/Banjarmasin and Samarinda (Kalimantan); and Jayapura and
Merauke (Irian Jaya) (Map A 18787).
4/ The Regional TSTs are located in the same places as for the Regional TAGs
plus Ujung Pandang (Sulawesi).



- 21 -
analysis and prepare a major training program for MOT staff.
The project will also provide on-the-job training and skill
transfer to national consultants through training components
incLuded in each Phase II and III study contract. Details on
the training component are described in the Project File
(Working Paper C4).
Special Project Features
3.03      Consultant Services.  This project has a large consultant component
which represents about 80Z of total project costs. It will involve the
recruitment of about 30 consultant firms with a total of about 9,800
expatriate man-months and 12,800 national man-months. Table 3.1 summarizes
the number of consultant firms and the man-month requirements per project
component. Experience gained under the Transmigration III project, which also
included a large consultant component amounting to 7,Z cf totaL project costs,
led to several improvements in the recruitment and implementation of
consultant services under the proposed project:
(a)  The recruitment of consultant services was initiated one year before
the expected loan effectiveness to avoid a gap in the production of
settlement plans.
(b)  The short listing of consultant firms was done through national and
international advertising to ensure the broadest coverage of
nationalities.
(c)  Foreign firms were requested to associate themselves with national
firms to ensure skill transfer and on-the-job training.
(d)  The recruitment of Phase II and II' consultants will be done in two
groups to avoid overburdening the administrative services of Bina
Program.
(e)  The selection procedures were discussed and agreed during loan
negotiations.
(f)  Phase II and III study contracts will be set up on a lump sum basis
per study with minimal control of the man-months to increase
consultant productivity and timely submission of studies.
3.04      Under the Transmigration III project, Bina Program, with the assis-
tance of its TAG, has demonstrated its ability to handle lar-e consultant con-
tracts though some delays occurred in the processing of invoices. The payment
of Phase II and III studies on a lump sum basis and assistance to the project
coordinator in accounting procedures provided under the project should over-
come this problem.
3.05      Settlement planning for 300,000 transmigrant families will require
the survey of about 6.5 million ha at Phase II study level and 2.5 million ha
at Phase III study level. The very size of studies, together with the limited



- 22 -
time available requires the use of about 14 large multi-disciplinary consul-
tant teams with contract values ranging from US$5 million to US$10 million
each. Currently national consultant firms are either too small or insuffi-
ciently experienced to carry out contracts of this size by themselves. The
association of foreign firms with local firms will overcome this problem and
will largely benefit the national consultant industry: first, by providing
more than half of the total number of man-months required to implement the
project, and second, by gaining managerial and technical skills through a
training component built into each contract. At the end of the project it is
expected that some national firms or consortia of national firms will be able
to compete with international firms in settlement planning in Indonesia and
abroad.
3.06      Details on the recruitment of these consulting firms and on the cost
and implementation of contracts are given in paras. 3.21 and 4.09. Because of
the importance of the Phase II and III studies and the key role in project
implementation of the Technical Support Teams to Bina Program, PLP and
Bakosurtanal, detailed TORs were agreed during loan negotiations (see Annex 4
for summary TORs of Phase II and III studies and staffing).
Table 3.1: CONSULTANT SERVICES
No. of       Foreign         NationaL
consulting   professionaL   professional
firms         staff           staff
(---  man-months) …
A. Settlement Planning
Phase I studies (Bina Program)               1              80             150
Phase II studies (Bina Program)             14          2,800           3,000
Phase III studies (Bina Program)            /a          4,200           4,500
Subtotal                                15          7,080           7,650
B. Program Support
Special studies (Bina Program)               2              80            150
Central TAG (Bina Program)                   1            495             576
Regional TAG (Bina Program)                  1             509            426
Central TST (PLP)                            1            480              .20
Regional TST (PLP)                           7             900          3,200
TAT (Bakosurtanal)                           1             220               -
Training (Pusdiklat)                         1              48              52
Subtotal                               14          2,732           5,124
Total                                  29          9,812          12,774
/a Phase II and Phase III studies will be contracted together.



- 23 -
3.07      Radar/Laser Mapping.  Topographical surveying in tropical forest is
a challenge. Aerial contour mapping for Phase II and III studies is not
suitable as airphocos show the tree canopy and not the ground level. Ground
surveying is currently the only methol possible. It is slow and expensive
because of the cutting of traverses rhrough thick forests. It can also be of
lesser quality due to the hardship of the environment (mosquitos, wild
animals, thick vegetation, swamps) and to the problems of adequate supervision
in remote areas.
3.08      These difficulties have led GOI, with the assistance of the Stanford
Research Institute under Bank financing (Transmigration III), to develop an
airborne radar mapping system (ARMS) for automatic topographic mapping at
scale 1/10,000 with 5 m contour intervals. The system is based on the prin-
ciple of using radar waves which can penetrate the thick tree cover. Though
ground profiling is now feasible after three years of testing in the United
States and in Indonesia, automatic mapping is not yet usable for large-scale
operations due to erratic measurements of the altimetric positioning system.
Human interpretation is still required and the radar sensor has some limita-
tions in rugged terrain. A final technical and financial evaluation of the
ARMS is expected before January 1986.
3.09      In view of the delays in developing the ARMS and in order to promote
competition, COI will soon carry out a pilot airborne laser mapping project
under Bank financing (Transmigration III). Laser ground profiling techniques
have been developed by private firms and have been used successfully for
several years in the United States and Canada. Though this technique does not
require further research work, the pilot project will allow its testing and
adjustment to Indonesian conditions. A complete evaluation of this system and
its comparison to ARMS are expected by January 1986.
3.10      Should either or both of these mapping techniques prove to be
applicable on a large scale at an equal or lower cost than conventional ground
surveying they would be incorporated in the second group of Phase II and III
consultant contracts because of their greater accuracy, rapidity and possibly
lower costs.
3.11      Criteria for Site Selection.  The diversity of the transmigration
program in terms of geographical areas, types of transmigrants and economic
activities require that a comprehensive set of criteria for the selection of
settlement sites be given to the planning agency and its consultants. An
assurance was received during loan negotiations that necessary measures would
be taken by MOT to ensure that settlement on sites identified by the project
would only occur in areas whose technical, economic, social and environmental
suitability for development have been established in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. Such criteia include the
following:
(a) Technical
-    Sites would be accessible through existing waterways and road-
ways, or similar facilities to be provided in the future.



- 24 -
Sites would have soils capable of sustaining crops with
economic levels of inputs.
Topographic conditions would be adequate for construction of
settler villages and implementation of the development model
foreseen.
Water resources on the sites would be adequate for drinking
purposes.
(b) Economic
-    Sites would permit the attainment of income levels by the
transmigrants equivalent to at least 2.4 tons of annual rice
production per family within five years of settlement (this is
equal to twice the current estimate of subsistence food
production).
-    The economic rates of return (ERRs) of proposed farming models
should normally be based on quantifiable costs and benefits and
be greater than or equal to the opportunity cost of capital in
Indonesia (currently estimated to be 10%). Recommendations to
base new settlements with lower ERRs on expected non-quantifi-
able economic and social benefits would require careful
justification.
:c) Social
-    Sites should permit the provision of adequate health,
education, family planning and other community services to
settlers within the first five years of settlement.
-    Local people wishing to participate in the program would be
accommodated on the sites, to an extent of 20% in most
provinces and up to 50% in Irian Jaya.
-    Local people should stand to benefit from settlement activities
in their areas, e.g., through parallel development programs or
services.
-    The cultural identity of local populations would be maintained
and the economic development of their areas would be promoted
at a pace which they considered reasonable. Settlement
arrangements would hence need to take into account the
particular requirements of local people, for example, hunters
and gatherers and shifting cultivators.
(d) Environmental
To minimize erosion and protect watersheds, no settlement would
be sited on sLopes of more than 8% for food crops and more than
25% for tree crops.



- 25 -
-    Protection forests and wildlife reserves, as well as areas of
particular ecological importance (primary rain forest and areas
judged to contain rare flora and fauna), would be avoided.
3.12      Social and Environmental Evaluations.  Because the transmigration
program is expanding into more, remote areas of Indonesia, the proposed project
would include several features to strengthen social and environmental evalua-
tions and improve the design of project components. In particular, these
features would take into account the presence of local populations in the
settlement areas and safeguard their interests.
(a) Phase II and III studies would be strengthened in the field of
social evaluations. Consultant TORs and staffing would reflect this
point.
(b) Consultants would be required to study development options including
the participation of up to 20Z local people for a given site (up to
50Z in the case of Irian Jaya) as indicated in the Repelita IV
document on transmigration. Proposed sites would be rejected as in
the past where the number of local people or land tenure issues are
likely to lead to significant difficulties.
Cc) The Technical Advisory Group within Bina Program would assist in
supervising and monitoring the social and environmental aspects of
the Phase II and III studies by employing two anthropologists/
sociologists (one national, one expatriate), and one environmen-
talist on a full-time basis.
(d) Phase II and III studies would be reviewed by the Project Working
Group (para. 4.05) to ensure, inter alia, that the social and
environmental aspects are adequately covered before proceeding to
settlement.
Ce) The functions of the Technical Settlement Planning and Development
Teams would be enlarged to provide guidance to the Minister of
Transmigration and to the DGSP and their consultants on social and
environmental issues (see para. 4.07).
Cost Estimates
3'13      Total project costs are estimated at US$275.3 million including
US$8.3 million in taxes and duties and US$141.8 million (52%) in foreign
exchange (Table 3.2). Base costs are expressed in mid-1985 values. Project
costs by year of expenditure are shown in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3. Detailed
cost tables are included in the Project File (Working Paper Cl).
3.14      Quantities and costs are based on the experience and estimates of
consultants working with MOT under the Transmigration III project. Quantities
were revised and costs were updated and adjusted to mid-1985 values.



- 26 -
3.15      Cost estimates include physical contingencies at the rate of 10% of
base costs and are estimated at US$21.2 million. Price contingencies are
based on the projected increases shown in Table 3.3 and are estimated at 18%
of base costs plus physical contingencies. The average tax rate on project
components is estimated at 3X. It has been assumed that radar/Laser mapping
systems would not be used on the areas to be studied at Phase II and III
LeveLs (paras. 3.07-3.10). Should these systems prove to be workable during
project implementation, the cost of the Phase II and III studies may decrease.
The applicable amount of any cost savings would be cancelLed Erom the Bank
loan.
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Total
Foreign Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange Costs
-- (I Rp billion) ---   ---(US$ million)-----         (2)      (Z)
Aerial photography &
base mapping                   10.0   15.2      25.2    9.0    13.9    22.9         60       11
Settlement planning              71.4   74.7    146.1   65.0    67.9   132.9          51       62
Program Support                  30.7   31.9      62.6   27.9    29.0    56.9         51       27
Total Base Costs /b             112.1  121.8    233.9  101.9   110.8   212.7          52      100
Physical contingencies/c       11.2   12.2      23.4   10.1    11.1    21.2         52       10
Price contingencies/d          23.5   22.0      45.5   21.5    19.9    41.4         48       19
Total Project Costs             146.8  156.0    302.8  133.5   141.8   275.3          52      129
/a   US$1.00 = Rp 1,100.
7,b   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.3 million.  Total project costs excluding
taxes and duties are estimated at US$267.0 million.
/c   Total physical contingencies are 10% of base costs.
7r   Local price contingencies are 19% and foreign price contingencies 16Z of the
respective base costs plus physical contingencies.
Table 3.3: EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES (Z)
Calendar Year           1984    1985    1986    1987-90    1991.
Loca:                    9.0    8.0      8.0        8.0       5.0
Foreign                 -2.8    5.0       7.5       8.0       5.0



- 27 -
Financing Plan
3.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$160.0 million would cover 60% of total
project costs (less taxes and duties). The Bank loan wouLd be equivalent to
100% of the project's foreign costs and 14% of local costs. GOI, through the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), would allocate funds for the rest of project costs
to the four project implementing agencies (Bakosurtanal, Bina Program, PLP and
Pusdiklat) (Annex 1, Table 4):
3.17      Flow of Funds.  The four project agencies would each prepare annual
budget requests in October each year for submission to MOF and BAPPENAS. MOP
would then issue the formal approval of the four budgets before the start of
the fiscal year on April 1. Funds would be released to the project agencies
the quarter before they are needed. MOF would prefinance the Bank share of
project expenditures except for those items for which it is expected that the
Bank will make direct payment.
Procurement
3.18      Detailed procurement procedures have been discussed with GOI and are
summarized below and in Table 3.4.
3.19      Aerial Photography and Maps nrepared under contract (US$23.2
million). Aerial photography, 625 base maps, and altimetric networks would be
procured in eight contracts through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.20      Equipment and Supplies (US$3.7 million).  Materials, spare parts,
maintenance services, printing and equipment for the mapping to be carried out
directly by Bakosurtanal, and audio-visual aids and other equipment and sup-
plies for the training component will be procured through ICB for items which
can be purchased economically and efficiently in bulk (US$2.6 million; esti-
mated at 70% of the total cost of these items) and international and national
prudent shopping for smaller quantities subject to Bank prior approval for
lots exceeding US$200,000 each (US$1.1 million; estimated at 30% of the total
cost of these items).
3.21      Consultant services (US$223.7 million) will be recruited inter-
nationally in accordance with Bank guidelines and will be open to both nation-
al and foreign firms. However, foreign firms will be requested to associate
themselves with local firms in order to carry out the technical assistance and
training components which will be built into each contract. Foreign and
national firms will be free to choose their associates. Except for the Phase
II and III studies and those listed below, the selection procedure will be the
short listing of at least five, firms by GOI, with technical and financial pro-
posals submitted according to the two envelope systam. Technical proposals
will be evaluated first according to a point system acceptable to the Bank,
which was agreed to during loan negotiations. After negotiations with the
highest evaluated firm, the remaining financial proposals will be sent back
unopened to the unsuccessful firms. This procedure will not be followed for
the following contracts:



- 28 -
(a) Phase II and III studies (US$153.7 million). It was agreed with GOI
that the short listing of consultant firms will be done through an
international notice of prequalification published in the Business
Edition of the Development Forum. The criteria for prequalification
were agreed during project appraisal and criteria for final selec-
tion, based on a technical evaluation with price considerations,
were agreed during negotiations. Cost considerations are appropri-
ate because of the repetitive and straight-forward nature of the
studies and also because the staff input for Phase II and III
studies is reLatively well known. However, the weight given to the
financial proposals would not exceed 40%. Phase If and III studies
wilL be divided into 14 packages with not less than .our consultant
firms invited to submit proposals for each package. The prequalifi-
cation of consultant firms for the first group of six packages was
approved during loan negotiations.
(b) Central and Regional TAGs (Bina Program) (US$21.8 million). In view
of the key role played by the existing consultants, Sir M. MacDonald
and Partners, in the implementation of the Transmigration III
project and in the preparation of the Transmigration V project, the
DG for Settlement Preparation has given a preliminary indication
that GOI may wish to negotiate directly a new contract with this
firm rather than to calL for new proposals. This is to reduce costs
and improve efficiency by maintaining continuity. Should COI in
fact recommend the renewal of the existing contract, the Bank would
have no objection to renewing the Central TAG, (estimated at
US$11.0 million) and possibly the six Regional TAGs (estimated at
US$10.8 million), depending on the circumstances at the time of
contract renewal. Should COI decide not to renew the TAG contract
there would be a phasing out period during which some key staff of
the existing TAG would overlap with the new team of advisors for a
period for 4-6 months.
Cc) Land Resource/Use Mapping (US$2.0 million) will continue to be
carried out by the LRDC team because of existing financing arrange-
ment between GOI and the United Kingdom. GO1 finances the cost of
LRDC staff except for social benefits which are financed by the
United Kingdom. A request for extending the existing Memorandum of
Understanding between the two countries for a period of 18 months
was sent by GOI in April 1985.
(d) Short Term Individual Consultants (US$1.0 million). Direct
contracting with prior GOI and Bank clearance will be applied for
contract values below US$200,000. Otherwise the general procedure
wilL apply.
3.22      Training (US$4.2 million).  Workshops, courses, study tours, and
fellowships are not applicable for normal procurement and will be arranged in
accordance with GOI practice acceptable to the Bank. Activities over
US$100,000 will be subject to prior GOI and Bank approval.



- 29 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT /a
(US$ million)
Procurement method                Totai
Project element                    ICB/b       Other/c    N.A./d            cost
Air photos and maps                23.2          -          1.0              24.2
(13.9)                  t-)               (13.9)
Equipment and supplies              2.6         1.1          -                3.7
(1.5)      (0.7)                          (2.2)
Consultants                       209.7        14.0          -              223.7
(131.4)      (8.8)                        (140.2)
Training                                        4.2          -                4.2
(3.7)                         (3.7)
Administration and overheads         -           -         19.5               19.5
Total Cost                    235.5        19.3        20.5             275.3
(Bank Financed)/e             (146.8)      (13.2)       (-)             (160.0)
la   Including physical and price contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are
the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
lb   Including the international recruitment of consultants.
7T   Other means of procurement include prudent shopping for equipment and
supplies, training expenses, direct hire of the LRDC and Central TAG
consulting firms and individuals required for short term assignments.
/d   Not appLicable.  Includes Bakosurtanal staff required for map making and
GOt administration and overheads.
/e   These figures are approximate and depend on the use of unallocated
funds. See also Annex 1, Table 4 (Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds).
Disbursement
3.23      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is shown in Annex 1,
Table 4 and summarized below.
(a) 602 of expenditures for aerial photographs, maps and leveling
networks carried out by contract.
(b) 60% of expenditures for equipment, materials and supplies for
mapping and training.



- 30 -
Cc) 60% of expenditures for Local training expenses and 100X expendi-
tures for foreign training expenses.
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services up to a maximum
disbursement of US$14 million and 60% thereafter.
3.24      For most components, disbursements would be made on the basis of
standard documentation. Stitements of expenditure (SOEs) would be used for
materials, spare parts, maintenance services and replacement of equipment
purchased directly by Bakosurtanal in lots under US$200,000 as described in
para. 3.20 and for training materials and expenses. Detailed documentation
for SOEs would be retained in Indonesia and made available to Bank supervision
missions (see Annex 3).
3.25      Project works would be completed by December 31, 1989 and disburse-
ments woul16 be finished 12 months thereafter. An estimated schedule of dis-
bursements is shown in Annex 1, Table 5. Because the project is limited to a
4 1/2 year time-slice of the transmigration program and because of the large
consultant :omponent, disbursements are expected to be completed in 5 1/2
years, faster Lhan the average for all Indonesian projects, which disburse an
average of 77% of total disbursements by the end of the 5 1/2 years. The loan
closing date would be December 31, 1990.
3.26      Conditions of disbursement for the second group of eight Phase II
and III consultants would be that:
(a) Bakosurtan;il has completed the aerial survey data and base maps of
about 110 additional potential settlement sites required for the
mobilization of these consultants.
(b)  GOI has approved and signed the consultant contract for the Central
and Regional Technical Advisory Groups (Bina Program).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Executing Agencies
4.01      The Directorate of Settlement Planning and Programming (Bina Program
Pankim) and the Directorate of Land Preparation (PLP), both of the Ministry of
Transmigration, and the National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(Bakosurtanal) will be the three major project executing agencies. These
agencies are briefly described below and further information is given in
Annex 2. The MOT Staff Training Center (Pusdiklat) will also receive some
technical assistance under the project.
4.02      Bina Program Pankim and PLP are directorates within the Directorate
General of Settlement Preparation (DGSP) of MOT (Annex 2, Chart 1). Both are
headed by a Director and assisted by several Sub-Directors (Annex 2, Charts 2
and 3). They are centralized agencies with little direct communication with
provincial authorities. Bina Program Pankim has been supported by Bank
transmigration projects since 1980 through the financing of site screening and



- 31 -
evaluation studies and of a Technical Advisory Group (TAC). Bina Program
Pankim has proved to be capable of managing large settlement planning programs
of over US$25 miLlion per year with the assistance of international and
national consulting firms. On the other hand, PLP has received littLe assis-
tance from the Bank or other agencies except for the financing of a Limited
number of construction contracts in Sumatra and Kalimantan. The decentral-
ization of construction activities in 1984 in favor of the Provincial Repre-
sentatives of MOT (KakanwiLs) has disrupted the construction program and
created a large demand for technical assistance to support PLP at the central
and regional leveLs. The construction program during Repelita IV will be in
the order of US$300 million per year.
4.03      Bakosurtanal coordinates and implements land resource inventories
and evaluation surveys and the production of base topographic and thematic
maps intended for pubLic use. It is technically attached to the Ministry of
Research and Technology and administratively to the State Secretariat. It is
headed by a Chairman assisted by two Deputies and a Head of Center (Annex 2,
Chart 4). Since 1980 Bakosurtanal has received Bank assistance through the
National Survey and Resource Mapping project for new buildings and modern
equipment and bilateral assistance (Canada and Australia) for aerial photo-
graphy and base mapping. Bakosurtanal, after a slow start, has proved to be
an agency capable of managing large programs under national and external
funding. Its expenditures over the past five years were around US$10 million
per year. The completion of the Canadian, Australian and Bank projects in
1984 has created a large demand for new funds which will be partLy provided by
the proposed project.
Organization and Management
4.04      Individual project components would be carried out by:
(a) Bakosurtanal for the aerial photography, base mapping, altimetric
levelling networks, the Technical Advisory Team and the training of
its staff.
(b) Bina Program Pankim for land resource mapping, the Phase I, II and
III settlement planning studies, the Technical Advisory Groups, the
special studies in coordination with the Planning Bureau and the
training of its staff including the organization of a national
workshop and the preparation of audio-visual aids on settlement
planning in coordination with Pusdiklat.
(c) PLP for the Technical Support Teams and the training of its staff
including the organization of a national workshop on settlement con-
struction and the preparation of audio-visual aids in coordination
with Pusdiklat.
(d) Pusdiklat for some limited technical assistance to aid MOT's overall
training program and the coordination of the training activities
carried out by Bina Program Pankim and PLP.



- 32 -
4.05      The project would be coordinated and supervised by the existing MOT
Coordirator for Bank-ausisted projects, who is the MOT's Secretary General.
In addition, a Project Working Croup would be set up within the existing
Settlement Planning Technical Team and representatives at the Director level
(Echelon 2) would be designated from the Ministries of Transmigration,
Agriculture, Forestry, Home Affairs, Population and Environment, and Social
Affairs and from relevant provinciiL authorities. Representatives of
Bappenas, Sekneg and Bakosurt4nal would aLso participate when necessary.
4.06      The chairman of the Project Working Group wouLd ba the Director of
Bina Program Pankim, reporting to the Minister of Transmigration through the
DCSP. The Project Working Group wouLd generally meet monthly and would make
recommendations to the Minister of Transmigration on:
(a)  Settlement planning and construction.
(b)  Regional planning and special studies.
(c)  Phase II studies and the development options prooosed.
(d)  Phase III studies and the executing agencies responsible for
implementing the construction and deveLopment of the proposed
settlements.
4.07       In addition, the National and Provincial teams/committees set up
under Presidential Decree No. 59/1984 and Ministry of Home Affairs Regulation
No. 15/1975 would be utilized in providing guidance to the Minister of
Transmigration and to the DGSP and their consultants on, among others, social
and environmental issues.
(a)  The Settlement Planning Technical Team chaired by the Director
General for Settlement Preparation would make policy recommendations
on the planning of the transmigration program based on Phase I, II,
III and other reLevant studies including the social and
environmentaL aspects and the proposals affecting local people.
(b)  The SettLement Development Technical Team chaired t)y the Director
Ceneral for Mobilization and Development would make policy
recommendations on the development aspects of the transmigration
program based on Phase III and other relevant studies including,
inter alia, monitoring and evaluating the social and environmental
aspects following the arrival of transmigrants.
(c)  The provincial and district Land Allocation Committees chaired by
the provincial and district heads of the DG Agraria within the
Ministry of Home Affairs would discuss and agree on existing land
use, land requirements and compensation arrangements based on Phase
I, II, III and other reLevant studies with local people affected by
the transmigration program.
4.08      An assurance was received during negotiations that the Project
Working Group would be set up and that the Technical Teams and the ProvinciaL
and District Committees would be effectively used.



- 33 -
Implementation ScheduLe
4.09      The project will be implemented in about 41 years from November
1985, the estimated date of loan effectiveness, to end-1989. The duration and
phasing of project activities are summarized in Annex 1, Chart 1. The two
critical sequences of events for the timely implementation of the project are
the completion of project start-up activities and the recruitment of key
consultants: (a) the first group of six Phase II and III consultants; (b) the
Central Technical Support Team (PLP); and (c) the Technical Advisory Team
(Bakosurtanal). Annex 1, Charts 2 and 3 give the detailed sequences of these
activities.
4.10      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) Bakosurtanal has completed, under the project start up activities,
the aerial survey data and base maps of about 110 potential settle-
ment sites required for the mobilization of the first group of six
Phase 11 and III consultants.
(b)  COI has approved and signed the consultant contracts for the Central
Technical Support Team (PLP) and the Technical Advisory Team
(Bakosurtanal).
4.11      The recruitment of the second group of eight Phase 11 and III
consultants is scheduled to aLlow the completion of the settlement planning
six months before the end of Repelita IV. The mapping, technical support and
training components will be implemented continuousLy throughout the project
period. Other project components including aerial photography, regional land
resource mapping, Phase I studies and special studies will be implemented as
required. An assurance was received during negotiations that the 1987 trans-
migration program review (para. 3.02c) would be completed by , ptember 30,
1987 and discussed with the Bank by November 30, 1987.
4.12      Status of Implementation.  Start-up activities for the project are.
being financed under the Transmigration III project (Annex 1, Charts 2 and
3). Drafting of (a) bidding documents for the procurement of erial photo-
graphy and (b) an agreement between MOT and BakosurtanaL on sub-contracting
procedures were reviewed and approved during the post-appraisa mission in
March 1985. To aid project effectiveness, Bakosurtanal will continue to
produce semi-controlled photo-mosaics at scale 1/100,000 under a previous
agreement.
4.13      The notice of prequalification for Phase II and III consultants was
advertised in the Development Forum Business Edition of January 21, 1985.
Prequalification documents were received on February 16, 1985 by Bina Program
Pankim and the short listing of five consultant firms for each of the first
six study packages was agreed upon during loan negotiations. TORs for
Phase II and III consultants and the technical advisory groups and evaluation
criteria for the selection of firms have also been agreed upon during loan
negotiations.



- 34 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      Bina Program, in conjunction with the PLP, Bakosurtanal and their
respective technical support teams, will be responsible for monitoring phy-
sical progress and in particular for ensuring adherence to the standards set
out in the consultants' TORs. Special attention would be given to the useful-
ness of the radar/laser mapping technology when the information is available
in January 1986, and to the potential impact of the site selection studies on
local people and the environment.
4.15      One of the special studies to be financed under the project will be
a detailed review of the transmigration program in 1987. It will cover the
major aspects of the transmigration program, including targets, the rate of
implementation, budgetary allocations and expenditures, land availability,
physical planning, land clearing, construction, farm models, agricultural
production and coordination with other agencies. In addition, it wiLl carry
out a socio-economic survey of five selected settlements (1 in Sumatra, 2 in
Kalimantan, and 2 in Irian Jaya) and make a special assessment of social and
environmental aspects, including land compensation procedures and the protec-
tion of local'people's interests particularly in Irian Jaya and Kalimantan.
The conclusions of the 1987 Review would be taken into account in determining
any adjustments necessary to complete the Transmigration V project.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.16      Project accounts will be subject to two audits:  (a) by the
Inspector General of MOT, and (b) by the Director General of State Financial
Control (BPKP). Assurances were received at negotiations that:
(a) A1l implementing agencies involved in the project would maintain
separate accounts for the project, and all contracts, orders and
receipts will be kept for at least one year after the closing of the
loan.
(b) Agency accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The accounts, audit reports and copies of the SOEs for each imple-
menting agency would be forwarded to and summarized by MOT's
Coordinator for Bank assisted projects in a report which would be
transmitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each GOI
fiscal year.
4.17      Quarterly and annual progress reports as well as Project Completion
Reports will be prepared by Bina Program, PLP, Pusdiklat and Bakosurtanal with
the assistance of their respective technical support teams. Among other
things:
(a) Special attention will be given during reporting to the impact of
settlement planning on local populations and environmental aspects.



- 35 -
(b) ALl reports will be consolidated in one report by the MOT
Coordinator for Bank assisted projects before submission to the
Bank.
(c) A consolidated Project Completion Report will be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after loan closing.
V. PROJECT ANALYSIS
Cost Effectiveness
5.01      During Repelita III the average cost of the transmigration program
was estimated at US$5,720 (in mid-1985 values) per transmigrant family.
Table 5.1: REPELITA III AVERAGE COST PER TRANSMIGRANT FAMILY
Cost
per family/a          Percent
(US$)
SettLement planning                                     440               8
Infrastructure and housing                             2,700            47
Transport and subsistence allowance                    1,150             20
Agricultural supplies and services                     1,150             20
Land titling and administration                          280              5
Total                                            5,720            100
/a   Based on a dryland food crop model excluding the costs of secondary
development.
5.02      The average cost during Repelita IV is expected to be somewhat
higher at about US$7,000 for the dry land food crops model because of the
remoteness of the new settlement areas (Kalimantan and Irian Jaya) which
require higher infrastructure and transport costs.
5.03      Under the project the total cost of settlement planning will be
US$500 per family or 7.1Z of total establishment costs. This percentage is
lower than during Repelita III and is in line with the planning costs required
for other major investment projects. These planning costs include the
technical support teams to Bina Program and PLP which would be equivalent to
US$38 and US$67 per family respectively. The cost of these teams represents
7.6% of the investment in settlement planning and 3.4X of the investment in
construction and is in line with similar investment projects. The improved
settlement planning and the technical support teams are expected to lead to



- 36
savings of up to two to three times their nominal cost.  Such savings could
include more efficient planning Leading to lower site rejection during the
planning process; higher crop production and therefore less need for
government support during the development period; and improved construction
methods and supervision leading to smaller investment and maintenance costs.
Economic Impact
5.04      The project is expected to lead to the settlement of about 300,000
transmigrant families through its physical planning component. These people,
who are largely landless with little prospect of obtaining land in their over-
crowded places of origin, qualify as "the poorest of the poor" in Indonesia.
Given the worsening problems of erosion and other environmental hazards caused
by the already intense pressure on rural land in Java and Bali, transmigration
represents a major means of increasing the number of people directly employed
in agricultural production. Rural irrigation works and other basic government
agricultural programs primarily affec: those with land who are underemployed
during an off-season. They create few new landholders, as opposed to trans-
migration. In the long term even suitable transmigration land will run out
and further employment gains will have to come from the off-farm rural or
urban sectors. In the short to medium term, however, job creation caused by
industrialization and attendant increases in the service sector are expected
to lag greatly behind the need for jobs. While the reLative costs per job
among the aLternatives of "urban industrial," "urban service," "transmigra-
tion," etc. continue to be researched through the Bank's on-going economic and
sector work, it is clear that the high and rapidly increasing demand for jobs
in rural Java and Bali will exceed the supply from all of these potential
sources, and at the margin the transmigration program has no lower cost
"competitors" for absorbing this surplus ruraL labor. Given this stark fact,
GOI has little alternative but to proceed with a large scale transmigration
and land distribution program. Based on the experience gained over the past
20 years, including four Bank-financed projects (paras. 1.20 to 1.27), and the
cost effectiveness of thorough planning described above, the land resource
evaluation and planning components of the proposed project represent the most
efficient and economic means to ensure a sound basis for the transmigration
program.
5.05      Transmigration V is primarily a mapping and site evaluation project
in support of a much larger regional development program. The many benefits
of improved mapping and site selection cannot be adequately quantified and
related to the costs to be incurred under this specific project and no mean-
ingful economic rate of return calculation for the project can be made. How-
ever, it is important for GOI and the Bank to be assured that there is suffi-
cient economic and social justification for the proposed project, especiaLly
since this project will identify sites in more remote and thus more costly
areas of the country than in the past. In addition to the job creation bene-
fits described above and a "without" case of continuing erosion and other
damage to the environment of rural Java and Bali, an analysis has been done to
examine the likely economic returns (based only on quantified costs and bene-
fits) which can be expected when the transmigrants are actually settled on the
sites identified and planned under this project. The results of this analysis
are presented in Annex 6 and the Project File (Working Paper C2) and can be
summarized as follows:



- 37 -
(a) The first stage development of the upland food crops model,
consisting of clearing 0.25 ha for the house lot and 1.0 ha for the
first food crop lot and the supply of a minimal agricultural package
of inputs during the first three years, is likely to result in
subsistence farming. Economic rates of return (ERRs) would be low
and in remote areas such as Irian Jaya and parts of Kalimantan might
approach zero, due largely to high investments in infrastructure.
In addition, some families (assuming a normal distribution of
"poor," "average" and "good" farmers) may sometimes be unable to
reach the target income of 2.4 tons of rice equivalent, particularly
in years with below average rainfall. COI recognizes this danger,
and regards this first stage development as an interim settlement
stage to be followed by a second stage development.
(b) The addition of a second stage development, especially when cattle
are supplied for draft power to the upland and wecland farm models,
can result in food surpluses in excess of the target income and
satisfactory ERRs. A second stage development involving tree crops
also points to a satisfactory ERR although it may be subject to the
same potential year-to-year fluctuations in self sufficiency in the
earLy years of development. Because of the greater financial and
managerial requirements of establishing sites based on models with
second stage development, COI's Repelita IV settlement targets may
prove to be ambitious. The pace of implementation of transmigration
is a subject which will continue to be analyzed through the Bank's
economic and sector work.
5.06      The likely ERRs for a series of possible models with second stage
development in remote areas such as Irian Jaya and Kalimantan are, at 72-12Z,
Lower than estimated in traditional transmigration areas such as Sumatra (10%-
152). These lower returns result from the lack of existing infrastructure and
the higher transport costs involved. Some of the ERRs, based on quantifiable
costs and benefits only, are also lover than the opportunity cost of capital
in Indonesia which is currently estimated at 10%. However, unquantifiable
economic and social benefits which must be taken into account include the
social value of providing land to the landless, increased food security and
improved regional development. On a more human level, all of the Bank's
economic and sector work to date, as well as the experience of previous and
current projects, suggest that family incomes on well-planned transmigration
sites can reach US$1,000 to US$2,000 per year or higher (3.5 to 7.0 tons of
rice equivalent), which is several times incomes in the transmigrants' places
of origin. These are issues of prime social and politicaL importance in
Indonesia which the Government is addressing with the support of the Bank.
Weighing the tradeoffs of competing claims on scarce development resources
continues to form a major part of the Bank's economic and sector work and the
policy dialogue with GOI. When the quantified and nonquantified benefits of
transmigration in these more remote areas are considered together, one may
conclude that the transmigration program for these areas is consistent with
the national development priorities held by Government and supported by the
Bank. The proposed Transmigration V project supports and seeks to improve the
overall transmigration program in the most economic and efficient means yet
identified.



- 38 -
Social and Environmental Impact
5.07      Local Populations.  Although local attitudes toward transmigration
have varied from province to province, local populations have been generally
receptive to transmigration with its associated infrastructure, employment and
social benefits such as improved schools and health facilities and lower cost
labor supply from which they benefit. With some notable exceptions, such as
Lampung province in South Sumatra, transmigrants are a minority in the
provinces where they have settled and they have not seriously compromised the
influence of local groups in their own provinces.
5.08      As the scale of the program expands, however, and transmigrants are
sent to new areas and/or remote sites, it is inevitable that they will be
located among people who are ethnically different or who are sparsely settled
and relatively unacculturated. Such people are found in project areas in both
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. The people in these areas are of concern for two
reasons. First, those who are relatively unintegrated into the larger society
may be unaware of their own rights and interests. Second, those who are
either unacculturated or ethnically distinct need particularly careful consid-
eration to ensure that they benefit from development.
5.09      In order to overcome these concerns it is GOI's policy to:
(a) Develop transmigration settlements only when satisfied that they are
technically socially, economically and environmentally viable
according to extensive studies carried out under the project.
(b) Include on a voluntary basis the local people living in and around
the proposed settlement areas to raise their living standards to the
same level as that of transmigrants.
Cc) Give equal access to economic and social infrastructure and services
to all sponsored and local transmigrants.
(d) Discuss and agree on compensation arrangements with local people in
the event that any land to be developed for transmigration involves
customary land rights.
(e) Formalize the release of land rights and compensation arrangements
through standardized procedures to be implemented by the provincial
and district Land Allocation Committees.
5.10      Perhaps one of the most sensitive issues in new settlement areas
centers on the release of customary land use rights and the estimates of
equitable compensation for local users. A recent Presidential Decree
(No. 59/1984) formally delegates the coordination of the transmigration pro-
gram, through the Minister of Transmigration to the Governors and their pro-
vincial staff. Under this new decree the Governors will, among other things,
be responsible for ensuring that conflicting claims on the land are resolved
in order to reduce the present high rate of settlement site rejection.



- 39 -
5.11      GOI has in the past, under Transmigration II and III Projects, and
will continue, under the proposed project, to reject sites for which agree-
ments cannot be reached with local users or when the number of local people is
such that the creation of a transmigration settlement would create serious
conflicting land claims. For example, in Irian Jaya, the sites proposed under
the project are located in the sparsely populated lowlands which have less
Land rights problems than in the highlands where the bulk of the indigenous
population lives.
5.12      The proposed project, which entaiLs advanced pLanning, offers the
opportunity to further develop those standards and procedures which will
benefit transmigrants and local populations. The consultant and institutional
arrangements to insure this are described in Chapters 3 and 4.
5.13      The Role of Women.  The project has no component specifically
concerned with women. However, it is a resource evaluation and site planning
project in direct support of the transmigration program, which treats the
family as the basic economic unit. The transmigration program is concerned
with raising rural incomes, increasing local employment and improving nutri-
tional and educational levels for all family members, and each family member
is expected to benefit fairly.
5.14      Environmental Effects.  One reason for the transmigration program is
to reduce the overcultivation of environmentally vulnerabLe areas on over-
crowded Java and Bali. This project wilL therefore have indirect beneficial
environmental effects on the sending areas. More important, the primary pur-
pose of this project is to improve the selection and design of transmigration
sites. Especially as the transmigration program expands to relatively unknown
areas of Indonesia, careful site selection is essential to prevent inappropri-
ate sites and farming systems being developed. As in the case of Transmigra-
tion III, the Phase I, II and III studies will use environmental suitability
as a criterion in deciding whether to proceed or reject a proposed site for
further consideration. For example, food crop areas are restricted to slopes
under 82, and tree crops to slopes under 25Z. The methodical evaluation,
screening and selection of sites under this project thus has the potential to
provide enormous environmental benefits in both the sending and receiving
areas.
5.15      In addition, the roles of the Ministries of Population and Environ-
ment and of Social Affairs in the decision process of the transmigration pro-
gram would be strengthened under the project by incorporating them in (a) the
Technical Teams reviewing social-environmental matters and (b) the Project
Working Group in charge of reviewing and recommending the acceptance of the
Phase II and III studies to the Minister of Transmigration.
Project Risks
5.16      Managerial.  The effectiveness of this type of project depends heav-
ily upon the .trength and the timely mobilization of the Technical Advisory
Groups. In the past, the time required to mobilize the Bina Program TAG
caused delays in program administration. Under this project the contract with



- 40 -
the current Bina Program TAG (which has been financed under Transmigra-
tion III) will be extended at Least one year to provide several months overlap
should another firm receive the TAG contract to complete Transmigration V.
5.17      Another managerial risk has to do with the implementation capacity
of MOT to use the information provided under the project to successfully carry
out the transmigration program. If, because of the pressures to accelerate
the transmigration program in order to accomodate the large number of families
who wish to transmigrate, MOT fails to incorporate the recommendations of the
studies financed under the project, then some of the benefits of the project
could be reduced. The risk of this happening is minimized given the expe-
rience of Transmigration III and the continuing monitoring and evaluation of
the transmigration planning process provided by this project.
5.18      SociaL.  If, contrary to GOI's stated policy, transmigration were to
become identified with the forced participation of local people or result in
major disadvantages to local people, then the program may be unable to go for-
ward at the planned rate and the benefits of this project would be reduced.
However, the primary objective of this project is to improve the quality of
site selection in order to promote the welfare not only of transmigrants but
aLso of local people. The components built into the project to insure that
the welfare of local people is taken fully into account minimize the social
risk.
5.19      With the precautions mentioned, the risks are judged to be
acceptable.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances
6.01      The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  Consultants will be recruited internationally in accordance with
Bank guidelines (para. 3.21).
(b) The Project Working Group, the Technical Teams and the Provincial
and District Land Allocation Committees will be set up or used
effectively during project implementation (para. 4.08).
(c) A detailed transmigration program review would be completed by
September 30, 1987 (para. 4.11).
(d) Quarterly and annual progress reports as well as Project Completion
Reports will be prepared by Bina Program, PLP, Pusdiklat and
Bakosurtanal. These reports will be consolidated by the MOT
Coordinator for World Bank assisted project (para. 4.17).
(e) Necessary measures will be taken by MOT to ensure that settlements
on sites identified by the project would only occur in areas whose
technical, economic, social and environmental suitability for



- 41 -
development have been established in accordance with agreed criteria
(para. 3.11).
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) Bina Program has selected 165 potential settlement sites to be
studied under this project (para. 2.17).
(b) Bakosurtanal has completed the aerial survey data and base maps of
about 110 potential settlement sites required for the mobilization
of the first group of six Phase II and III consultants
(para. 4.10(a)).
(c) COI has approved and signed the consultant contracts for the Central
Technical Support Team (PLP) and the Technical Advisory Team
(Bakosurtanal) (para. 4.10(b)).
Conditions of Disbursement
6.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement for the second
group of eight Phase II and III consultants:
(a) Bakosurtanal has completed the aerial survey data and base maps of
about 110 additional potential settlement sites required for the
mobilization of these consultants (para. 3.26(a)).
(b) GOI has approved and signed the consultant contract for the
Technical Advisory Group (Bina Program) (para. 3.26(b)).
Recommendation
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$160 million for a term of 20 years, including a
five-year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



-42-                                                     ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
TRANSHICRATION V PROJICT
National Mappin, "nu Sattlleunt Planning
Project Cost Summary
2 total
-- (Rp billion)  -    -   (US$ million) -    2 eoreLgn    basl
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  exchange           costs
Aerial Photosraphy & Base Nappins
Aerial photography                                 4.7      8.6    13.3    4.3        7.8    12.1      64            6
Base mapping                                       4.0      5.2      9.2    3.7      4.7      8.4      56            4
Altimetric networks                                 1.2     1.5      2.7    1.1       1.3      2.4     55             1
Subtotal Aerial Photography 6 Base Mapping    10.0    15.2    25.2    9.1    13.9    22.9              60           11
Settlement Plann..g
Phase I studies                                    1.6      2.0      3.6    1.4       1.8     3.2      56             2
Phase II studies                                  27.3    29.1    56.4   24.8    26.5    51.2          52           24
Phase III studies                                 42.6    43.6    86.2   38.7    39.7    78.4          51           37
Subtotal Settlement Planning                      71.4    74.7   146.1   64.9    67.9   132.9          51           62
t-rogram Support
Special studies                                    0.4      1.2      1.6    0.4      1.1      1.5      72            1
Technical support teams                           27.8    27.6    55.4   25.3    25.1    50.3          50           24
Training                                           2.4      3.2      5.6    2.2      2.9      5.1      57            2
Subtotal Program Support                          30.7    31.9    62.6   27.9    29.0    56.9          51           27
Total lase Costs                                 112.1   121.9   234.0  101.9   110.3   212.7          52          100
Physical contingencies                            11.2    12.1    23.3   10.1    11.0    21.2          52           10
Price contingencies                               23.6    21.9    45.5   21.5    19.9    41.4          48           19
Total Project Costs                              146.9   156.0   302.8  133.5   141.8   275.3          52          129
Note: Some totals may not add precisely due to rounding.



INDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION V PROJECT
National Mapping and Settlement Planning
Project Components by Year /a
Totals including contingencies              Totals Including contingencies
(Rp billion)                                 (USS millon)
85186  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  Total  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  Total
Aerial Photography & ease Mapping
Aerial photography                                  6.6    4.4    5.1       -       -    16.1    6.0    4.0    4.7       -       -    14.6
Base mapping                                        1.8    3.2    2.9    3.3    0.8   11.9    1.6    2.9    2.7    3.0    0.7   10.9
Altimetric networks                                  -      0.9    1.4    1.3      -      3.5     -      0.8    1.2    1.2       -     3.2
Subtotal Aerial Photography & Base Mapping    8.3    8.5    9.4    4.6    0.8   31.6    7.6    7.7    8.6    4.2    0.7   28.7
Settlement Planning
Phase I studies                                      -      2.2    1.6    0.8      -      4.5     -      2.0    1.4    0.7      -      4.1
Phase It studies                                   12.8   27.5   29.7       -      -    69.9   11.6   25.0   27.0        -       -    63.6
Phase III studies                                    -    41.9   45.2   24.8       -   112.0      -    38.1   41.1   22.6        -   101.8
Subtotal Settlement Planning                    12.8   71.6   76.5   25.6       -   186.S   11.6   65.1   69.5   23.3        -   169.5
Program Support
Special studies                                      -       -     1.1    0.6    0.6    2.2       -       -      1.0    0.5    0.6    2.0
Technical support teams                             2.2   14.6   22.4   23.4   12.3   74.9    2.0   13.3   20.4   21.3   11.1   68.1
Training                                            0.5    1.3    1.8    2.5    1.5    7.6    0.4    1.2    1.7    2.2    1.4    6.9
Subtotal Program Support                         2.7   15.9   25.3   26.4   14.4   84.7    2.4   14.5   23.0   24.0   13.1   77.0
Total Project Costs                             23.8   96.0  111.2   56.6   15.1  302.8   21.7   87.3  101.1   51.5   13.8  275.3
/a  Project year is April-Mareb.                                                                                                                  *
Note: Some totals may not add precisely due to rounding.



INDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION V PROJECT
Ntoal Mpin  and  Settlement Plannn
Summary Accounts by Year La
Totals including continsencies (Rp billion)              Totals including contingencies (US sillion)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  Total  1985/86  1986187  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  Total
Investment Costs
Air Photos and Hapa
Prepared under contract                      7.3       6.6       7.9       3.3       0.5    25.5       6.6       6.0       7.1       3.0       0.4    23.2
Prepared by Bakosurtanal /b                  0.5       1.3       0.9       1.0       0.2      3.8      0.4       1.1       0.8       0.9       0.2      3.5
Subtotal                                    7.7       7.9       8.7       4.3       0.7    29.3       7.0       7.1       8.0       3.9       0.6    26.7
Consultants                                   13.9      80.4      93.1      46.4       12.3   246.1     1207      73.1      84.7      42.1      11.2   223.7
Trainina E lenses 
Courses, vorkshops and scholarships          0.4       0.9       1.4       1.5       0.6      4.7      0.3       0.8       1.2       1.3       0.5      4.2
Training equipment and supplies              0.1       0.1       0.0       0.5       0.5      1.3      0.1       0.1       0.0       0.5       0.5      1.2
Subtotal                                    0.5       1.0       1.4       2.0       1.1      6.0      0.4       0.9       1.3       1.8       1.0      5.4
Administration and Overhead                     1.7      6.8        7.9      4.0        1.1    21.4      1,5       6.2       7.2       3.6       1.0    19.5
Total Investment Costs                     23.8      96.0    111.2       56.6      15.1   302.8    21.7        87.3    101.1       51.5      13.8   275.3
Total Project Costs                        23.8      96.0    111.2       56.6      15.1   302.8    21,7        87.3    101.1       51.5      13.8   275.3
/a Project year is April-March.
znb  Including costs of equipment, supplies and 8akosurtanal staff.
Note: Some totals may not add precisely due to rounding.



45g_                                      ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
National Mapping and Settlement Planning
Financing Plan and Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
(US$ mLlllon)
Source of Funds
Costs     Loan Amount       Bako-      Bina          Pusdl-
Total     X         IBRD   surtanal  program  PLP    klat
Air photos and maps                21.2    (60)       12.7      8.5        -      -        -
Equipment and supplies              3.5    (60)        2.1      1.0       0.2    0.2      -
Consultants                      204.1    (62)/a   127.1        1.2      62.5   13.3      0.4
Training                            3.8    (88)/b      3.4       -        0.2    0.2       -
Administration & overheads         17.7     (0)         -       2.2      12.7    2.8       -
Subtotal                      :50.3              145.3      12.9     75.6   16.5      0.4
Unallocated                        25.0               14.7      1.2       7.5    1.6       */c
Total                       275.3              160.0      14.1     83.1   18.1      0.4
/a 100% up to US$14.0 million and 60% thereafter.
/b 60X of expenditures within Indonesia and 100% outside Indonesia.
/c Less than US$100,000.



-46                            ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
National Mapping and Sett.lement Planning
Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements a
IBRD                                                      Indonesia
fiscal year                    Transmigration V               all loans
and semester                  US$ million    %                      X
FY86
First                            1.0         1                    1
Second                          13.0         8                    3
FY87
First                           19.0        12                    8
Second                          26.0        16                  14
FY88
First                           36.0        23                  22
Second                          61.0        38                  30
FY89
First                           90.0        56                  40
Second                         118.0        74                  50
FY9o
First                          136.0        85                  60
Second                         150.0        94                  69
FY91
First                          160.0       100                   77
Year 7 and beyond                   -                             100
/a Closing date December 31, 1990.



INDONESIA
TRANSKIGRATION V PROJECr
Phasing of Activities
Bank Fiscal Year                        |       FY86         |       FY87         |       FY          I       F89          I   F90
GOI Fiscal Year                            85/86                86187                87/88               68189               69 90
Calendar Year                I      1985          _      1986        1        1987             _  1988         1        1989       1190
Jan _Apr July Oct  Jan  Apr  July  Oct  Jan  APr July Oct IJan  Apr Jul   ct Ja          pr J     Ot IJan
I.  Aerial Photography and                      I    I              I    I    I          I    I    I    I       I        10a111
Basic Mapping                                                                                                             I I    I  I  I    I    I |  I |    |    |  I    I
Transuigration V Start Up             I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I |         |     |   J4   I    |    |
Activities /a                  IxxxxxxxxxxI                        I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I   9       I
Aerial Photography               I…-----xxxxxm                              | |  |                                  I | |
Base Mapping                              _--…xxxxxxxxx                                                                          xxx'l
Altimetric Networks                   Ixxxxx                                   -      ----                                    I    I    I
It. Settlement Planning  ..............................                   
Phase I Studies  b               I                                                                                       I    I    I    I
Phase II and III Studies              I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I                 |    |
(lst group) /c                  - ------------Ixxxxxx
Phmsee I and III Studies
(2nd group) /d                                __------
III.  Program Support to Executing
Agencies
Dina Yrmrau: Central TAG         I    I    I I------ 
Regional TAGs                      -…--- _ _______- --------
PLP            Central TST         _ __ _  ______
Regional TSTs          I    I- - _                                                                                       I
Bakosurtanal:  TAT                 _-_____     _-----                                                                                 -
Special Studies /e                                    _    _           -                                            l              I I          1
TrainingL (Bina Program, PLP     ll                             l    l     l    l    llI                                                 I      1S
and Bakosurtanal)              I    I    |
--------------  Bidding
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  Implementation
/a To be financed by the Transmigration III project. Not included in Transmigration V cost tables.
/b Including LRDC land resource and land use base maps.
7-c Firat urous of Phase 11 and III studies comorise six consultant firmsa.
71 Second group of Phase II and III studies comprise eight consultant firus.
7-e Mid-term Repelita IV tranamtgration program reviev.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
Recruitment of First Group of Consultants /a
Calendar Year                           11984                        985                               i986
IDays    O    N ID  J   F I MT               I    I A  I  I  I D         F |IM  A|
Notice of Pro-qualification         45                xxxxxx I   |  |   |  |  |  |
Pre-qualification                   45       I  I        I xxxxxx
Clearance GOI & WB                  30                   I 1  lxxxxx
TOR Drafting                        90           1 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx   |
TOR Clearance GOI & WB              30        (                   xxxxx
Invitation to Bid                 |45        I  I   I                | xxxxxx
Evaluation of Proposals           1 45        I                            i lxxxxxx          111111
Clearance MOT                     |30 11         I   I 111111                    jxxxxxl         |   |  |   |  |  |
Clearance Sekneg                  130   I   I  I   I  I   I  I  I  I           1 I xxxxxl            I  I ||I'
Clearance Bappenas                130   111           Il1                         xxxxxl   |        I  I  I  I
Clearance WB                      |30   |    |                                     xxxxx         I       I  
Contract Award                      30                                                             xxxxx
Mobilization                      |45   |   |  |                     I |         I              xxxxxx
Contract Implementation           1910           1                                                     xxxxxx
o   0                   o
tD                M~~~~~~~~td
/a  These include:                         
- 7 Phase II and III Consultants
- 1 Central Technical Support Team (PLP)
- 1 Technical Advisory Team (BakosUrtanal)



INDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION V PROJECT
Project Start-Up Activities (Bakosurtanal la
= ~ ~   ~    ~   ~  ~~~~~~                                                                       ~~~~ I  I                         -_I_  
Calendar Year             |a|         D  J 1                    1985                          1              1986 AJ
NID  IIFIMIAI    I JI JI AI S                                I   N I D I J I11IM1  A ITIJI J 1
Semi-Controlled Radar Mosaics (1/50,000)            |    I   1   I   1   I   1   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Kalimantan (165,000 sq.ka)                     1180      |   |   |   |   |           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx3           |   |   |   I   |   I   I   |
Irian Jaya (105,000 sq.km)                     1180 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx          xx|    |   |   I   I   I   |   |   I
Aerial Photopcaphy (1/50,000 & 1130,000)            1    1   1   1   1   1   1   1   I   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   I   I   I   I   I   I   1
(Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya                 I    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
102,000  sq.Ik) k                                        1    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I
Bidding Documents & Specifications             | 60 |    |     xxxxxxx|    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Clearance COI & WB                             1301    I   I 1   lxxxl   I   I   I   I   |   I   I   I   I   I   |   I   I   I                     |
Invitation to Bid                              1451    I        1      1   |xxxxxxx|    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Evaluation of Bids                             1 30 1   1   I   1   I           I   lxxxi   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Clearance GOI &  WB                            1 30 1   1   1   1   I   I           1   lxxxi    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Contract Award                                 1 i3  1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1 I   lxxx    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Mobilization                                   1 451    1   I          1   1   1   I   I          IxxxxxxI   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Contract Implementation                        11801    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I  1   I xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxII
Rectified Photo Ma2s (1/50.000)Lb                      I          |           I   I I   I   I                       |   | I   I          1   1   1   1
Kalimantan (120 sheets)                        |I   lxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxx x| |xx                                           |   |xl   I
Irian Jaya (80 sheets)                         I    I   I   I   I   I   |           I   I   I   Ixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxtnKxXlxXXXiHXxxxxx2 I
/a  These activities are not financed by the project but are essential for its timely implementation.
/b Based an existing and new air photos.



.'-~~~~~~~~~~~                         50:
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(National Rapping and Settlement Planning)
PROJECT AGENCIES
Executing Agencies
1.        Ministry of Transmigration.  During Repelita I and 11 (1969-1979),
the transmigration program was under the responsiblity of the Directorate
General of Transmigration within the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigra-
tion. However, in view of the marked increase of this program towards the end
of Repelita II, it became necessary in 1978 to involve other governmental
agencies.
2.        Presidential Decree No. 13 of 1978 promoted the Director General for
Transmigration to the rank of Junior Minister, and Presidential Decree No. 26
of 1978 created a series of bodies to develop policy and coordinate the trans-
migration program: BAKOPTRANS (composed of Ministers), SATDALTRANS
(Directors), SATBIN I (Provincial Officers) and SATBIN II (District
officers). Under this organizational structure, each Ministry concerned
(Manpower and Transmigration, Public Works, Agriculture, Home Affairs, Trade
and Cooperatives, Education, Health, etc.) was to plan its activities and
budget in consultation with the Junior Minister. In practice, however, the
authority, budget and staff of the Junior Minister were too limited for
efficient coordination.
3.        During Repelita III (1979-1984), the transmigration program con-
tinued its expansion with a target of 500,000 families and in 1983 the Junior
Minister's office was converted to a Ministry incorporating three major
executing agencies: (a) the Directorate of Settlement Planning and (b) the
Directorate of Sectlement Construction (both from the Ministry of Public
Works); and (c) the DG of Transmigration from the Ministry of Manpower and
Transmigration.
4.        Recently the coordination of the transmigration program was further
revised, under Presidential Decree No. 59 of 1984, which created: (a) a
Secretariat responsible for coordinating the transmigration program among all
agencies concerned; (b) a Suervisory Team to supervise and evaluate the
transmigration program; and (c) a Technical Team composed of Directors from
the various technical agencies concerned to provide technical advice to the
Minister and coordinate the technical aspects of the program.
5.        Thus, in the space of six years, the DG of Transmigration has
expanded to become a full Ministry with increased human and financial
resources and the authority to carry out a large program. This dynamic
approach to organizational aspects has improved the management and implemen-
tation of the transmigration program, though the Ministry is still too new to
function with optimal efficiency. The grouping of mobilization, transport,
planning and construction activities within the Ministry of Transmigration has



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
streamlined the settlement of transmigrant families, but development
activities such as input supply, extension, credit and land titling, which still
remain under the responsibility of other Ministries, namely the Ministries of
Agriculture and Home Affairs, are still lagging. As a result, the agricul-
tural and economic development of existing and future settlements remains an
area of concern for Repelita IV and will require further organizational
improvements, particularly in the relationships between the Ministry of Trans-
migration and the Ministries of Agriculture and Home Affairs. Financial
monitoring and staff training are two other aspects which continue to require
substantial assistance within MOT.
6.     1/ The Ministry of Transmigration now has a total staff of about 11,100
people.-   The Minister is assisted by six special advisors who advise him on
topics of a general nature including Legal and International Affairs.
Directly under the Minister come the Inspector General, the Secretary General,
the DC for Settlement Preparation (DGSP) and the DC for Mobilization and
Development (DCMD). At provincial and district levels, the Minister is
represented, in both the recruitment and settlement areas, by the Kanwil and
Korlap staff (see Chart No. 1).
7.        Directorate General For Settlement Preparation (DGSP).  The
Directorate General for Settlement Preparation (DCSP) will be the major bene-
ficiary of the project. It is responsible for planning and constructing
transmigration settlements and for coordinating these activities with other
agencies. It comprises a Director General, five Directors and a Secretary for
Administrative Affairs. The field staff is limited to project officers
(Primpros) (Chart No. 2). Because of its large staff and responsibilities it
should play a major role in the implementation of the transmigration
program. However, due to its recent creation in 1983, and to a period of
transition during which there was a large movement of staff between the
Ministry of Public Works and MOT, this Directorate General has not been able
to perform with maximum efficiency. This relative weakness was further
compounded, in April 1984, by the decentralization of construction activities
which resulted in considerable delays in the planning and construction
programs at the beginning of Repelita IV. The first year national settlement
program is now expected to be about 50% below the fixed target (62,000 instead
of 125,000 families). The two Directorates of DGSP involved in project
activities are: (a) the Directorate of Planning and Programming and (b) the
Directorate of Land Preparation and Physical Infrastructure.
8.        Directorate of Planning and Programming.  The Directorate of
Planning and Programming (Bina Program Pankim) is responsible for settlement
planning within DGSP. Because of the large settlement targets and the multi-
disciplinary approach to settlement planning, this Directorate has neither the
staff nor the time to carry out all studies and plans. The activities
directly carried out by Bina Program Pankim include budgeting, preparing
regional plans (Phase I studies), coordination with orher agencies, drafting
of specifications and guidelines for settlement planning and supervision of
1/   72 professionals, 67% technicians and 26% support staff.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
consultants firms. Other activities include mostly site screening studies
(Phase II) and feasibility studies (Phase III) prepared by consultants.
9.        Bina Program has a Director, five Subdirectors and one Project
Coordinator to look after administrative and contract matters (Chart No. 2).
Bina Program has six regional offices located at Pekanbaru (Riau), Pontianak
(W. Kalimantan), Banjarmasin (S. Kalimantan), Samarinda (E. Kalimantan) and
Jayapura amd Merauke (Irian Jaya) with a limited staff of one or two officers
per office.
10.       Bina Program Pankim has been largely supported by two Bank proj-
ects. In 1980 the Transmigration II project (Credit 919-IND, Loan 1707-IND)
began to progressively replace the "plan as you proceed" method of planning by
a sequence of studies in three phases. In 1983 the Transmigration III project
began to finance site screening and evaluation studies for 300,000 families.
The systematic approach to settlement planning has considerably increased the
work load of Bina Program and in 1980 a Technical Advisory Group (TAC) was
formed to assist its staff. In 1983, the TAG was expanded to provide
assistance to the six regional offices.
11.       With the assistance of the TAG, Bina Program Pankim has proved to be
capable of managing large settlement planning programs of over US$25.0 million
per year.
12.       Directorate of Land Preparation (PLP).  This directorate is
responsible for settlement construction including land clearing, roads,
bridges and public buildings (Chart No. 3).
13.       Prior to April 1984, settlement construction works were managed by
this directorate from central offices in Jakarta which had full control over
construction works with the assistance of their project managers (Primpros) in
the provinces. But in April 1984, the responsibilities for construction works
were decentrali-ed and transferred to the Provincial Heads of HOT (Kakanwils).
This decentralization had three immediate consequences:
(a) The central offices of PLP lost control over construction works
since the project managers now report to the Provincial Heads of MOT
who in turn report directly to the Minister.
(b) The tendering of new works came almost to a standstill due to the
lack of experience of the project managers and Provincial Heads of
MOT in contract administration.
(c) Construction works deteriorated due to the disruption of technical
and financial guidance from the central offices.
14.       The project components which would remedy the present situation and
meet the large demand for technical support generated by the decentralization
are:
(a) The provision of technical support to the central PLP offices.



- 53
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b)  The opening of seven PLP regional offices to reestablish the
essential links between the central and provincial offices of PLP
and MOT.
(c)  The reinforcement of technical capabilities of the MOT provincial
offices through technical support and training activities provided
by the central and regional PLP offices.
(d) The transfer of some PLP central staff to the regional offices.
15.       The cost of construction works has been estimated at US$1,500 per
family for land clearing and roads, and at US$1,000 for housing and public
facilities. Assuming a settlement rate of 125,000 families per year to meet
the Repelita IV target, the PLP will have to impLement and supervise an annual
construction budget of about US$312.5 million. This high figure justifies the
level of proposed program support estimated at only 2.8X of the construction
budget.
16.       Bakosurtanal.  Bakosurtanal, the National Coordinating Agency for
Surveys and Mapping, was established in 1969 under Presidential Decree No.
83/69. Its major responsibilities are to coordinate land resource inventories
and evaluation surveys and to produce all base topographic and thematic maps
for public use. Bakosurtanal is technically attached to the Ministry of
Research and Technology and administratively to Secretariat Negara (SEKNEC).
Its chairman reports directly to the President of Indonesia.
17.       Two deputies and a Head of Center assist the chairman.  Bakosurtanal
has a staff of 450 including 71 professionals, 174 technicians and 205 support
staff (Chart No. 4).
18.       Through the National Resource Survey and Happing project funded by
the Bank fLoan No. 1197-IND), Bakosurtanal has trained part of its staff and
received modern equipment. The Bank project provided mostly overseas non-
degree postgraduate training and a few fellowships for Master's degrees. In
addition, it provided buildings for central administration, laboratories and
storage, mapping equipment, a fully integrated and versatile computerized
mapping system and printing equipment. Under Canadian (CIDA) funding
Bakosurtanal received aerial photography for base mapping, two planes (Lear
jets) for aerial photography and assistance for setting up a national doppler
geodetic network for aerial triangulation bench marks. Australian assistance
provided aerial photography and topomaps.
19.       Currently CIDA's assistance is continuing for the completion of the
doppler geodetic network, and ADB has appraised a Land Resource and Evaluation
Project to provide assistance in land surveys and inventories. Australia is
likely to continue its assistance for the preparation of 50 topomaps per year.
20.       Bakosurtanal, after a slow start, has proved to be an able agency
capable of managing large programs under national and external funding. Its
annual expenditures over the past five years were around US$10 million. The
completion of the Canadian, Australian and Bank projects in 1984 has created a
demand for new funds which will be provided mostly through the proposed ADB
and World Bank loans and partially through the continuation of the CIDA and
Australian technical assistance.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settbemnt Planning)
Organization Chart of the Directorate Settlment
Planning & Programming
(Directorate General Settlement Preparatlon)
DIRECTOR
CENTRAL TECHNKCAL
ADVL                                                                   PROJECT
(TAG)                                                           COOROItATOR
S TUDIEG40NAL               SJBDI RECONN ANCE         |      | SUBaT FEASIBI  tY
Pha3se IActMtlw                 Phs 11 AcMte                 Phis II Actt                      SIUDE5         l   l                         1-
REGIOAL OFFICE &          REGIONALOfFICE &         REGIONAL OFFICE &         REGIONAL OFFICE &         RIK)AOFFCE&              RCIKLOFICE&
REGIONAL TAG              RGGAGOAG TAG                                                                 REGIONAL TAG             REGIONAL TAG
Pekanbaru/Paenmbang            Pontlanak          6anomsin/PoIenkarmya            Somadnda                   JOYIwa
PHASE 11 & III           PHASE 11 & 1              PItHASE 11 & 111HASE&III                    I      PHASE I & kI              PHASE N & H
CONSULTANTS              CONSULTANTS      j        CONSULTANTS               CONSUATANTS     J        CONSLTANS                 OCONSILTANM
Wodd Bu*-27272
rw



-55 -                                                        AN     2
Chart 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRAJION V PROJECT
(National Mapping and Settlement Planning)
Dlrectorate of Land Preparation (PLP)
(Directorate General ofSeMeffrent Pteparaoln)
Organization Chart
DIRECTOR
Laidnctaah (PP)
CENIRAL TECHNICAL                                            |__
StUPPORT TEAm M ()
SE-DIRECTORATE             SL.-IRECTORATE             SUB-DIRECIORATE            SJB-DIRECTORATE             SUBDIRECTORATE
Implemntation                 Sumatra                   K(olmontn                Sulawesl-Mouk                 Ino
_Colnsftmon                        III1
SECTIONS                   SECIIONS                   SECTIONS                   SECTIONS                   SECTIONS
I Preparation            1. Acoh - Sumut           I Kamantan - Barot          1. Sukt - Sultag               1. JOyapt
Implmentation          2. Rlou - Jambi           2 Kollmanton - Sekbbn       2 9     s- S                   2. MmuOke
2 Consluctin             3. Sumbor - Bengkulu      3. Kollmanton - Tengoh      a Sulair - Tengo               3. Mankwad
a Technicl               4 Sumse - Larpung         A KNrnmantan - rimtr        4. Maluku                      4. S9arn
4 Ccstuton
EQuipnenst
aOlb reagion Olfllce  Regional iTS  Regional Ofice |   eglod Office |    eginal ONIce | Regional Ofice
PmoteOcer&        ProjectOfficer &   |toject Oflcer&  Paqect Officer &  Pralect Officer &  Pro| jectOtfter&  Proectofllcer|
Sote Managers     Site Manogers     Site Managers     Site Manuoers     Site Monagers      Site Managers     Site Monoge's
4-          I      I   -           I         I                          I                I                      I       
Deatded    l l   Detrailed    l l   Dolobr    | |   DetolbO    | |   Deldleo    l l    Detoled              Detdled    |
Engineering       Engineerng|    EBneuri | g          Engneedri    |i  Engineering         Engineering       Engineering
& Supesion        & Supervision     & Supervisson     & Suprvision      & SpWervision      & Supevwson |   & Su9evdsion
ConsuNants        Conrsulants       Cansultants            jtCorulnts   Cornstants-        CorjsutntCs Conjcrts
Contractors       contractors       Contfrators        Cntrctor      |  Contractos|    Contracts             Contaor
Uold Banc-27275



ANNEX 2
-56                                                    Chart 3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(Natonal Mapping and Settlement Planning)
Organization Chait d  Bakosurtanal
Cholnawn
III
Deputy for                         Deputy for Resources
Bose Mcng                    [      Inventoav & Evduotlon
HVdFraphlc Ik          l               Resources & Envknmfentol|
Navigatotn Aapping Center |                 AaiysksCent
|            .. |           q       b~~~~~~Rpmucin  Center l
Cente for Data
Manoaement & Tialning
Dta Mongement              Tralning DWMion
DMsBon
Woxid Bank-27273



'Ii
i        i      i   !IiIi    I
HA~~~~~i i[i 
Il        I    KH
S  t'  XI         I
nE~ II    III



-58                                ANNEX 3
Page I
INWNESIA
TRANSMICRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPINC AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING
Statements of Expenditure
Ceneral
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for Bank disbursement
against the following items:
Loan amount
Item                      Loan Amount /a          as X of
(US$'000)          total costs
Happing materials lb                                 450                  60X
Training materials 7b                                200                  60%
Other training expenses                            3,700                  88%
Total                                         4,350                   82Z
/a   Including contingencies.
7i   Purchased under prudent shopping.
2.        Prior to the year of implementation the three executing agencies
concerned (Bina Program, PLP and Bakosurtanal) would submit unit costs for the
above items to BAPPENAS for approval. These costs, reviewed and agreed by
BAPPENAS, would serve as the basis for budgeting, and SOEs would be based on
actual expenditures and submitted quarterly.
Detailed Features
3.        For maps produced by Bakosurtanal, prudent shopping and SOEs will be
used for materials (films, photographic paper, chemicals, printing inks and
special mapping materials), spare parts, maintenance services and small
equipment which will be procured through prudent shopping because they cannot
be purchased economically in buLk through ICB. The amount of prudent shopping
is estimated at 30% of the total cost of these items. Prudent shopping is in
line with local and Bank procedures will be used subject to Bank prior non-
objection for lots not exceeding US$200,000 each.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        For training materials, training activities and fellowships the
responsible project agency will maintain documentation on the cost of the
materials and the cost of travel, housing, training and follow-up for each
type of staff member to be trained. This information will be used to deter-
mine the cost of training staff. Disbursements will be made against quarterly
statements indicating the number of people trained, the type of training and
the unit cost.
Implementation
5.        Technical assistance for project accounting and SOE preparation waS
provided under the technical advisory groups financed by Transmigration III
and would be continued under Transmigration V. Under the project, finance and
accounting specialists would also develop a training program which would
include bookkeeping and accounting. All SOEs would be subject to a separate
auditor's opinion. With these steps the project agencies would be capable of
maintaining the required accounts.



-60-
0NNEX 4
Pag'e1
INDONESIA
TRANSMICRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
SUMMARY TORs FOR PHASE II AND III STUDIES
Phase II Studies: Reconnaissance and Master Plan
A. General
This is a rapid reconnaissance of areas identified for transmigra-
tion and is often referred to as the screening process. One objective is to
assess the suitability of the area for a particular form of development, so
that a decision can be made as to whether it is worthwhile undertaking more
detailed surveys. A second objective is to carry out socio-anthropological
studies of the local people living in and around the settlement areas to be
developed and determine their attitudes towards transmigration. A third
objective is to prepare a master plan for developing the sites found to be
suitable including a preliminary development plan.
It is assumed that aerial photographs at scale 1/50,000 and
1/30,000, rectified semi-controled photo mosaics at scale 1/100,000 and topo-
graphic maps at scale 1/50,000 with 25 m contour intervals will be supplied to
consultant firms by Bakosurtanal through Bina Program prior to the implementa-
tion of studies.
B. Summary of Activities
The Phase II studies for one settLement unit (SKP) of about
1,500-2,000 families (KK) covering a gross area of about 20,000-25,000 ha are
summarized below. The type, density and distribution of field observations
are given in Table 1.
(a) Preliminary interpretation of aerial photographs at scales 1/50,000
and 1/30,000.
(b) Investigation of land units and preparation of a land unit map at a
scale of 1/50,000, based on air photo interpretation, field observa-
tions of slopes and soils along traverses a maximum of 2 km apart
over the whole SKP.
(c) Investigation of climate and hydrology based on analysis of existing
climate and hydrological data supplemented by additional field and
map observations of the drainage network and flooding hazard.
(d) Preparation of present land use and forest status maps at a scale of
1/50,000 based on air photo interpretation, field investigations and
local enquiry to establish land availability.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(e) Preparation of land suitability maps at scale 1/50,000.
(f) Social-economic studies to establish the activities of the existing
populations, their 4cc@ss to outside markets and/or traders and the
type and value of goods traded.
(g) Socio-anthropological studies based on direct interviews with local
people and government officials to asmess the number of inhabitants
in the area, the tribal and administrative organization, the age
structure, the literacy, the health conditions, the land occupied,
the desire to participate in the transmigration program, the method
of participation, and the willingness to release land.
(h) Preparation of agricultural development proposals taking into
account Local p-ople's attitude and participation.
{i} Preparation of an SKP master plan at a scale of 1:50,000 and
modification of the 1/100,000 regionaL structure plan if necessary.
(j) Preparation of a preliminary 10 year development plan for settlement
units.
(k) Reporting.
(1)  Formal and on-the-job training of the national associate staff in
the preparation of Phase II studies.
The composition of the study team and man-month requirements to carry out a
package of 24 Phase II studies per consultant contracts is given in Table 3.
Phase III Studies: Settlement Structure Plan and Economic Feasibility
Phase III studies will be undertaken only for those SKP which,
following the reconnaissance Phase II studies, are found to be suitable for
further development and which have been approved by the Project Working Group
and cleared by the Provincial Authorities. The planning and surveys done in
Phase III studies will follow the type of development proposed in Phase II
studies. In most sites to be developed, standard TOR will apply but in areas
with particular problems or when new development models are considered,
special TOR will be proposed by the consultant and approved by the Bank and
Bina Program.
The objectives of Phase III studies are to:
(a) Confirm that an area is technically suitable for transmigration.
(b) Prepare physical plans and cost estimates for the settlement and in
particular define the areas within which land clearing should take
place.
(c) Ensure that the proposed development and agricultural activities are
economically and financially feasible.



-62-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(d) Ensure that the proposed settlement is socially and environmentally
viable.
(e) Prepare detailed development plans for each settlement unit.
It is assumed that Phase II maps and reports have been completed and
that recent air photographs of scales 1/50,000 and 1/30,000 and topographic
maps at scale 1/50,000 are readily available through Bina Program.
The Phase III studies for one SKP covering a gross area of about
10,000-12,000 ha and consisting of 4-5 villages (SP) of 300 to 400 families
each are summarized below. The type, dens.ty and distribution of field
observations are given in Table 2.
(a) Preparation of a 1/20,000 scale topographic map with, where
necessary, surveyed control based on traverses no more than 3 km
apart. Topographic detail is derived from field data and,aerial
photographs or from any suitable available control data."
(b) Reconnaissance slope surveys: overall density of one observation
per 5 ha, data obtained by measurement every 50 m along traverses
Crentisans) not more than 1 km apart. Data to be presented and
slope map prepared at 1/20,000 scale using air photo interpretation.
(c) Soil survey at semi-detailed level: overall density of one observa-
tion per 25 ha, data obtained from observation every 250 m along
rentisan not more than 1 km apart. Soil map prepared at 1/20,000
scale.
(d) Present land use survey: overall density of one observation per
5 ha, data obtained from observations every 50 m along rentisan not
more than 1 km apart. Present land use map prepared at 1/20,000
scale using air photo interpretation.
(e) Forestry investigations to establish volumes of marketable timber
with a sampling error of 10% at 95% significance level. Minimum
sample of 0.5% by area. Proposals for utilization of timber and
forest products in the light of existing laws and regulations.
(f) Water resource investigations primarily to establish and prepare
designs for potable water supplies for village sites and for
drainage and flood protection requirements for the SKP.
(g) Preparation of land suitability map at 1/20,000 scale.
1/   This activity will not be required if radar/lasar maps at scale 1/10,000
with 5 m contour intervals are available.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
(h)  Preparation of agricultural and other development proposals for
incoming tranimigrants and local people.
(i)  Preparation of preliminary SP structure plan at 1/20,000 scale
showing blocks of land within which more detailed surveys for
houselots and arable land should take place and demarking any areas
required for the use of local people.
(j)  Survey of slopes within area of houselots and arable land:  one
observati'n per 1 ha; data ?o tained from observations every 50 m
along rentisan 250 m apart.-
(k)  Access and main village road alignment survey at 1/20,000 scale.
(1)  Preparation of final SP structure plan at scale 1/20,000 showing the
land allocations for incoming transmigrants and local people, the
viLlage boundaries subdivided into hamlets of 20-50 families, the
blocks for houselors, the first arable land, the second farm land,
the reserved lands, and the areas to be cleared. Alignments for
access and village roads will also be shown.
(m) Cost estimates for settlement development and assessment of the land
use rights given up by local people.
(n)  Study of regional and environmental setting.
(o)  Prepare an economic and financial feasibility study including farm
budgets, cost estimates and benefits to settlers. A comparative
analysis of costs and benefits of maintaining the area as productive
forest under current or proposed management systems.
(p)  Prepare detailed settlement development plans for the first five
years of settlement and indicative development plans for the
folliwing five years for each settlement unit.
(q)  Recommend, in the most satisfactory way possible, the way of parti-
cipation of indigenous people in the transmigration development
projects and the most equitable compensation arrangements.
(r)  Reporting.
(s)  Formal and on-the-job training of the national associate staff in
the preparation of Phase III studies.
The composition of a study team and the man-months requirements for
the implementation of a package of 16 Phase III studies per consultant
contract are given in Table 3.
2/   This activity will not be required if radar/laser maps at scale 1/10,000
with 5 meters contour intervals are available.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
TYPE, DENSITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF FIELD OBSERVATIONS
IN PHASE II STUDIES
Observations
Minimum
Type                                 Density                  Distribution
Slope /a     -  Clinometer             1/10 ha       1 every 50 m along traverse
measurements                        Traverse 2 km apart over
whole SKP
Soils        -  auger boring           1/200 ha      I every 1 km along traverse
or profile pit                      Traverse 2 km apart over
description                         whole SKP
Present land use
-  field observation    1/10 ha        As for slope measurements
-  Local enquiry         variable      All village heads.  Some
farmers
Socio-       -  field observation    variable        All village and districts heads
Anthropology -  local enquiry                        Some villagers.
Hydrology    -  river flow direc-    variable        All river intersects along
tion and flood                      traverse
hazard
-  potable water         variable      Existing wells
supply
-  tidal fluctuation    variable       All major tide-affected rivers
/a   These observations will not be required if radar/laser ground profiles are
available.
Note: Traverses may be along cut lines (rentisan) or along existing roads or
footpaths where these give representative sections at an appropriate spacing.



-65-                            ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
TYPE, DESNITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF FIELD OBSERVATIONS
IN PHASE III STUDIES
Observations
Minimum                  Distribution
Type                                 Density                 Maximum spacing
Slope reconnaissance /a
-  clinometer              1/5 ha        I every 50 m along traverse
measurement                           Traverses 1 km apart
Slope confirmation within
land clearing block /a
-  clinometer              1/1.25 ha     1 every 50 m along traverse
measurement                           Traverses 250 m apart
Soils     -  auger borings or        1/25 ha        1 every 250 m along traverse
pit descriptions                      Traverses 1 km apart
Present land use
-  field observation       1/5 ha        1 every 50 m along traverse.
Traverses 1 km apart
-  local enquiry           variable      All village heads.  Minimum of
50 farmers
Forest inventory                     0.5% by area  Within each major forest
type
Water resources
-  river flow              variable      All river intersects along
directions                            traverses
flood hazard           variable
-  tidal fluctuations     variable       All tide-affected rivers
-  potable water supply   variable       Existing wells
Additioaal bore holes
Surface water storage
/a   These activities will not be required if radar/laser maps at scaLe 1/10,000
with 5 m contour intervals are available.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
Settlement Planning
Man-months Requirements per Average Phase II and III Contract
(Assuming 24 Phase II studies and 16 Phase III studies
carried out over a total contract period of 30 months)
Specialists              Phase II Studies   Phase III Studies         Total
Foreign  National  Foreign  National   Foreign  National
Project manager             12       12         18       18          30       30
Team leader                 18       18         24       24          42       42
Topographers                18       20         36       42          54       62
Soils specialist            18       20         36       42          54       62
Planners                    18       18         12       12          30       30
Sociologists                12       12         12       12          24       24
Agronomists                 12       12         18       18          30       30
Tree crops                   -        -         12       12          12       12
Foresters                   12       12         12       12          24       24
Agro-economists             12        12        18       18          30       30
Aerial Photo. Int.          12       12         12       12          24       24
Cartographers               12       12         12       12          24       24
Civil engineers             12       14         18       24          30       38
Water engineers             12        12        12       12          24       24
Training specialists        12       12         18       18          30       30
Miscellaneous /a             8       16         30       33          38       49
Total                 200      214        300      321         500      535
Average per study          8.3      8.9       18.8     20.0           -        -
Total for 14 Packages   2,800    3,000       4,200    4,500       7,000    7,500
/a    Includes short-term assignments of the following specialists among
others: marketing, storage and processing, rural institutions
(cooperatives), agricultural credit, regional planning, hydrogeology,
health, nutrition, education and fisheries.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
Transmigration Policies under Repelita IV and Impact on Local People I!
Government Policies
1.        The government policies for the transmigration program under the
Fourth Five-Year Plan (Repelita IV - April 1984 to March 1989) are set forth
in the "Guidelines of State Policy" of 1983, Chapter IV. According to these
guidelines the transmigration policies focus on:
(a) the improvement in population balance;
(b) the opening up of new production areas, especially agricultural
lands, within the framework of regional development;
(c) the reordering of the use, control and ownership of land in the
region from which the transmigrants come, as well as in the new
areas; and
Cd) the improvement of living standards of the transmigrants and the
surrounding communities.
2.        The guidelines also identify other groups of people who may be
considered as transmigrants. These others include those who practice shifting
agriculture and lead nomadic lives, and those who work land which should be
reserved for conservation purpose or the local population. It is important
also to appreciate that the transmigration program is not restricted to
agricultural activities. Industrial development and trade promotion in rural
areas are part of intended transmigration activities. It is evident that, if
the standard of living of the transmigrant family is to be improved and
transmigrant activities are to contribute meaningfully to the development of
the country, the quality of activity planning in all its phases must be of a
high order and progressively improved.
3.        As the scale of the program increases in Repelita IV, more and more
problems will arise in the implementation process. These are expected, and
include the choice of proper land, and the complexities associated with
reserving land. Also, as more families in Java and Bali express their desire
to move and settle in transmigration areas, the problems and policies
/I   Most of this annex is based on abstracts of a GOI policy statement dated
March 1985.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
connected with seLection and recruitment of migrants become important and
demand attention. At the same time, the issues and policies concerned with
the further development of settlement areas as part of the overall development
of the receiving regions also will have to be faced. The institutional
capacity and the effectiveness of the administration to undertake an enlarged
program more efficiently will assume greater importance in Repelita IV, not
only because the target may become more elusive but also because of pressure
on the financial resources available for the program.
Development Efforts in Settlement Areas
4.        Each village of 300-500 families is planned to accommodate all three
main types of transmigrants (a) general transmigrants, i.e., families who
normally come from the main transmigration source of Java and Bali; (b)
transmigrant families who are originally from the local population; and
(c) spontaneous transmigrants, i.e., transmigrants who move to the location at
their own expense. With regard to the transmigrant families originating from
the local population, priority is given to those families who live near the
project site or whose land has been used as part of the site; families who
lead a nomadic life and who practice shifting agriculture, and those who live
on mountains or have very limited land and are poor are also given priority.
5.        Within the village, the three types of transmigrants may be totally
mixed. This is the ideal arrangement from the point of view of promoting
integration. If this is not feasible, concession may be given for a Limited
separation of physical dwellings within the village among the various types of
transmigrants. And if this is not practical, the three types of transmigrants
may live in different villages. With this arrangement they are mixed ac a
larger level of settlement, i.e. at the regional settlement level. The new
village is an embryo of the regular village in the civil administration.
Administratively, the village and the transmigrants are within the
jurisdiction of the local provincial government. Government activities and
development activities are conducted in the same manner as in reguLar
villages. But, since these are new settlements and the villages are not yet
fully established, special development activities are undertaken alongside the
regular activities of the local government. The special development
activities are undertaken for a period of five years after the arrival of
transmigrants. The objective of these activities is to lay a strong
foundation economically, socially and institutionally so that, at the end of
that five-year period, the transmigrants are in a position to carry on
development activities on their own.
Development Activities in Irian Jaya
6.        The province of Irian Jaya has an area of about 420,000 km2 and
accounts for 22% of the land surface of Indonesia.  Its capital (iayapura) is
about 3,500 km from Jakarta.  Eighty percent of the province is covered by
dense forest and jungle and the greater part of the territory is mountainous
with a high centraL range of mountains running from east to west across most
of the province.  The highest peak in the chain has an altitude of 5,490 m and
ten other mountains are over 4,900 m high. Soil conditions in the south are
generally poor, but better in the north. In the shallow soils of the south



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
and southwest, heavy rainfall year-round sustains a complex river system, and
poor drainage in low lying areas has produced thousands of square kilometers
of mangrove swamps and tidal forests. Transport connections throughout the
island are very poor, and access to the central highlands is virtually impos-
sible, except by air.
7.        Although the province is the size of Spain or California, it has
only about 1.2 million inhabitants. Two-thirds of these (about 800,000) are
indigenous to the province, and half of these (about 400,000) live mostly in
the highlands of the province. (The island of Java, which is about one-third
the size of Irian Jaya, has about 95 million inhabitants.) Irian Jaya and
Kalimantan together account for about half of the total land area of Indonesia
but only 52 of the population. According to the 1980 Censul, they have the
lowest population densities in the country (3 and 12 per km , respectively,
compared with 690 in Java).
8.        The main products of rrian Jaya are crude oil (US$691 million in
1982), copper (US$128 million) and tuna (US$3.4 million). Timber and coal
deposits are barely exploited, owing mainly to marketing difficulties, and
there are undetermined reserves of important minerals such as gold and
uranium. Rattan and copra are also produced on a small scale.
9.        The pace of development in some provinces has been slower than in
others. However, the Government is now making special efforts to compensate
for this "late start" of these provinces and has assigned high priority to
introduce basic infrastructure and services. Development expenditures in
Irian Jaya in 1980/81 were among the highest in Indonesia; about US$42 per
capita compared with an average of about US$20 nationwide. Only three other
provinces received more development funds on a per capita basis: DKI Jakarta,
Bengkulu, East Kalimantan and South-East Sulawesi. Routine expenditures were
more than twice as high in Irian Jaya that year as in any other province.
l.       Nevertheless, Irian Jaya remains one of the least developed
provinces of Indonesia. Only 52% of the population over 10 years of age is
literate, compared with a high of 91% in North Sulawesi, and a range of 65-80%
in most other provinces. With West Kalimantan, it has the lowest proportion
of eligible children 'n primary school (66.9%) and the eighth lowest percent
in junior high school. The estimated infant mortality rate in 1980 was 124
per thousand births, compared with a national average of 105. Only two other
provinces had worse records: West Nusa Tenggara (188) and Central Sulawesi
(129). Fertility rates were higher in Irian Jaya and Maluku (6.5 children per
woman) than in any other province, compared with a national average of 4.5 and
the national low of 3.4 in Yogyakarta.
11.       JDF.  One of the major participants in the development program in
the province is the Irian Jaya Joint Development Foundation (JDF), which is
co-financed by the Government of Indonesia and the UNDP. JDF was set up in
1970 to administer the remaining funds from the United Nations Fund for the
Development of West Irian (FUNDWI), which operated during the period
1962-69. JDF engaged in a variety of development activities ranging from
loans to small farmers and businessmen to the occasional major project such as
a cocoa estate at Ransiki in the "Bird's Head" area of the province which is



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
being co-financed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). JDF's
operations were expanded in 1980 when the Ministry of Finance offered an
additional capital contribution of US$10 million. To permit a higher level of
operations, JDF's lending portfolio consists of about 1,000 active borrowers
and (excluding the cocoa project at Ransiki) amounts to about $52 million.
12.       Bank Activities.  Three of the 9 consulting firms performing work
under the Transmigration III Project (Loan No. 2248-IND) are active in Irian
Jaya. In addition the Second Swamp Reclamation Project approved in May 1984
includes preparation of a master plan for the development of swamp areas in
the province. (Irian Jaya accounts for some 4 million of the 6 million ha of
potentially recoverable swamp Land in Indonesia.) A regionaL development plan
will be prepared for Irian Jaya under a proposed Bank project for Indonesia's
eastern islands. This component is expected to be financed by the UNDP and
executed in close association with the Bank. Engineering studies are under
way with funds from the East-Java Water Supply Project (Loan No. 2275-IND) to
prepare urban water supply investments for the province. Also imminent is
Bank support for the development of a nursing school at Manokwari under a
proposed Health Manpower Development Project. Depending on the outcome of the
regional planning study mentioned above, there may be a case for preparing a
Bank project centered on the development of the indigenous communities of the
province.
13.       Other Donors.  Other financing agencies have aLso been involved in
Irian Jaya's development. Australia has financed aerial mapping of the
province and engineering designs for water supply development in ten towns.
As mentioned above, CDC has supported a cocoa production project near
Manokwari.
14.       Government is satisfied that substantial progress has been made
during Repelita III (1979-84) in achieving food self-sufficiency within the
province, and the Government is now placing emphasis on the introduction of
export crops. Priority under Repelita IV (1984-89) is to be given to the
development of agricultural support services, transmigration, infrastructure
and mining and energy. As far as possible, the subregional focus is to be on
the North Coast as well as on the development of the Central Highlands.
Land Alienation and Compensation Arrangements
15.       The most sensitive issue in new settlement areas centers on existing
land rights. Provincial government authorities have always been involved in
the planning process for transmigration, but a recent Presidential Decree (No.
59/84) formally delegates coordination of the transmigration program to the
Provincial Governors to ensure, among other things, that conflicting land
claims and reLated site rejections are kept to a minimum. Land allocation
committees at the provincial and district level are intended to determine the
availability of prospective sites well before their physical and agricultural
suitability is established. These committees represent important potential
users of the land, e.g., the Ministries of Transmigration Forestry, Mines and
Energy, the Directorate General of Estates in the Ministry of Agriculture, and
the Directorate in the Ministry of Home Affairs responsible for assessing the
land rights of local residents (Agraria).



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
16.       Under Indonesian law (both traditional and formal), individuals have
a right of use but not of ownership, of entitled land. The national agrarian
law (1960) also provides for the right of eminent domain whereby the
Covernment can appropriate land for development purposes with suitable
compensation. This right has'been exercised slowly and unevenly throughout
the country depending on local customs and feelings. Where it has been
exercised, compensation is usually based on explicit agreements between local
community Leaders (such as clan heads in local areas) and Government
officials. Instead of cash, compensation usually takes the form of capital
goods (such as outboard motors), housing materials (such as roofing), road
improvements and even scholarships.
17.       Past evaluation studies resuLted in a high rate of rejection of
potential sites, not only because of unfavorable topographicaL or soil
conditions, but also as a result of alternative land claims by local people or
other potential users. On the basis of this experience, the Government has
decided to move "up stream" the involvement of Agraria and key agencies in the
selection and assessment of settlement sites. For example, land allocation
committees will meet and designate specific areas for transmigration as far as
possible, prior to the initiation of Phase II studies. In principle, this
should eliminate or at least reduce the number of instances where "suitable"
sites are found to be utiLized or committed to other purposes and it should
limit unnecessary expenditures on detailed studies.
18.       At the same time, the Covernment is determined that more attention
should be given to designing a development "approach" which will serve the
economic and social needs of local residents, as well as the transmigrants.
Under the proposed project the terms of reference for the Phase II and III
studies require existing farming systems to be studied and local expectations
assessed regarding the introduction of alternative farming systems. Local
attitudes about compensation or exchange of land will also be explored. Using
the preferred farming system, suitable land will be allocated to meet the
requirements of the local inhabitants. The exact manner in which this will be
achieved will depend on local circumstances, but specific guidelines will be
established to govern all sites. Once the existing farming systems and/or
needs of the local communities are established, land evaluation work under
Phase III-A studies will then be oriented to selecting an appropriate farming
system which would extend over the remaining suitable land in the area.
19.       A detailed assessment of Local practices and wishes will also be
important for correcting shortcomings in some past settlement sites. Hunting
and gathering rights in adjacent areas will need to be protected and
provisions made for the supply of livestock and the setting aside of wooded
areas for fuel. Land compensation arrangements will need to take into account
forgone hunting and gathering rights in "unpopulated" forest areas, and not
just cultivated land which may be very limited in some areas.
Programs to Benefit Transmigrants and Local Residents
20.       In cases were local residents may wish to join transmigrant
communities to benefit from schools, health services and the like, Government
is prepared to allocate up to 50% of sites to local settlers, although demand



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
is not expected to exceed 10-20Z of such places. Where locals are settled in
transmigration communities, greater attention would be paid to extension as
local settlers have much less experience than transmigrants with crops intro-
duced on transmigration schemes. In all cases, settlement in transmigration
schemes would be voluntary and where local residents do not wish to partici-
pate directly in the new settlements, the Government intends to improve their
existing community through rural or regional development projects and
consuLtant plans would make recommendations on the improvement needed.
22.       The Government intends to study ways and means to improve the living
standard of indigenous inhabitants under a Regional development study to be
prepared with UNDP and Bank assistance. The information resulting from the
transmigration planning studies would also provide guidance in the preparation
of future area development projects.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page I
INWONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPINC AND SETTLEMENT PLANNINC)
Costs and Benefits of Alternative Settlement Models
Summary
1.        Unlike most Bank-assisted projects, the Transmigration V Staff
Appraisal Report does not include an economic rate of return (ERR)
calculation. This is because Transmigration V is primarily a mapping and site
evaluation project in support of a much larger development program. The many
benefits of improved mapping and site selection cannot be adequately quanti-
fied and related to the costs to be incurred under this specific project and
no meaningful ERR calculation for the project can be made. However, it is
important for COI and the Bank to be reasonably assured that there is suffi-
cient economic and social justification for the proposed Transmigration V
project. Therefore, this annex reviews some analyses of the likely costs and
benefits which may be expected when actual settlement takes place as a result
of the studies financed under Transmigration V. If the costs and benefits of
these eventual settlements are judged acceptable, then it follows that the
Transmigration V project, which supports the effective implementation of these
settlements, may also be presumed acceptable.
2.        The analyses of the farm models tested indicate that transmigrants
in relatively remote areas such as Irian Jaya and parts of Kalimantan will be
able to become self-sufficient in basic food production and achieve signifi-
cantly higher incomes than in their places of origin. These farm models also
show that the potential ERRs in these remote regions, based only on quanti-
fiable costs and benefits, while positive, will be lower than historically
experienced in areas such as Sumatra, and may be in some cases be lower than
the opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia, which is currently assumed to be
10%. This i- not unexpected given higher mobilization and transport costs,
the remoteness from potential markets, and particularly the much higrer infra-
structure costs required in the new transmigration areas. For example, the
full costs of implementation in Irian Jaya, including infrastructure, have
been estimated at US$7,000 to US$10,000 per family depending on the location
and farm model assumed. This is significantly higher than the Repelita III
national average of US$5,700 (in 1985 values).
3.        These increased costs and lower ERRs (based on quantifiable costs
and benefits) of transmigration in more remote areas must be weighed against
the many unquantifiable economic and social benefits. These include the
social value of providing land to the landless, the reduction of soil degrada-
tion and erosion in Java, increased food production and food security,
improved regional development, and higher employment at a lower cost per job
than might be expected in Java. When the quantified and nonquantif.ed bene-
fits of transmigration in these more remote areas are considered together, one
may conclude that the transmigration program for these areas is fully consis-



- 74 "
ANNEX 6
Page 2
tent with the national development priorities hold by Covernment and supported
by the World Bank. Therefore, one may further conclude that the Transmigra-
tion V project, which supports and seeks to improve the overall tranamigration
program through site evaluation and planning in the most economic and effi-
cient means yet identified, is also justified.
ModeLs Analyzed
4.        There are two basic models for upland and lowland sites:
(a) An upland model of 2.0 ha to 3.5 ha which includes a 0.25 ha house-
plot (lhome garden), 1.0 ha food crop area and 0.75 ha to 2.25 ha for
subsequent development, e.g., of tree crops or additional food
crops. The introduction of cattle is generally assumed to be
necessary for cultivating more than 1.25 ha of dryland food crops.
(b) A lowland (swamp reclamation) model of 2.25 ha which includes a 0.25
ha housepLot and 2.0 ha of land suitable for bunded rainfed rice.
Some secondary fooa crops (palawija) may also be cropped during the
dry season.
5.        In both models, the hotaseplots and 1.0 ha of land are cleared and
prepared before the arrival of the settlers. During the first year the
farmers are supported by the provision of food, tools and seed. Fertilizer
and pesticides are provided for 3 years. In subsequent years "second stage
development" is expected to take place. The three types of second stage
development tested here are: (a) the introduction of cattle and expansion of
the dryland food crop area to 2.0 ha; (b) the planting of 2.0 ha of rubber,
one each in years 3 and 6; and (c) the expansion of the bunded wetland area to
2.0 ha.
6.        The above models have been tested for a "base case" ERR in Irian
Jaya, where transmigration costs are expected to be relatively high. Each
model assumes the 0.25 ha houseplot and an annual fertilizer application of
200 kg. One sensitivity analysis includes 20% higher establishment costs to
represent especially remote areas requiring large amounts of primary
infrastructure. Another sensitivity analysis includes 15% Lower establishment
costs, corresponding to actual Repelita III figures, to approximate particu-
larly accessible sites. This sensitivity analysis may also be considered a
proxy for inclusion of lower cost spontaneous transmigrants into the ERR
methodology. The amount of food surplus (deficit) in kg of rice equivalent
produced by each model is shown, as is the labor surplus (deficit) in man-days
in the peak month. The results are presented in Table 1 of this Annex.
Conclusions
7.        In general, it appears that the ERRs of the upland (assuming second
stage development) and wetland models may hover around the opportunity cost of
capital of 10%. The first phase cultivation of 1.0 ha of dryland foodcrops
has had mixed results in traditional transmigration areas in Sumatra, and
would be even more dubious in a remote area such as Irian Jaya, where the
higher investment costs might cause the ERR to approach zero.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        It should be noted that the tested models involving second stage
development may require more labor than is available in the "standard" five-
member transmigrant family. While the inflow of spontaneous transmigrants
(especially family members) can and do make up some of the labor deficit, the
average transmigrant family may be unable, especially in early years, to
develop the targeted amount of land, and/or the estimated per capita income
within a family could remain lower than targeted because of the outside labor
input required. In addition, field observations show that when the two basic
models are unaccompanied by sufficient levels of inves.ment and technical
assistance the results can be subsistence agriculture or possibly below in the
case of inexperienced farmers. Furthermore, the lack of cash income can block
the development process and settlements may stagnate at the poverty level.
The economic rates of return and per capita income can be improved by
supporting second stage development activities as quickly as possible. Two
ways to encourage this include:
(a) The addition of one or two head of cattle to the standard dryland
food crop to alleviate some labor constraints and produce marketable
surpluses. Of special note is the fact that the addition of cattle
is a reLatively low cost means of secondary stage development
compared to, e.g., the introduction of trec crops.
(b) Reducing the food crop area to subsistence in the case of a tree
crop model and increasing the area and the speed with which tree
crops are developed. This would be dependent upon access to
Government credit programs to provide the investment capital
required and protect the smallholders' welfare in the years before
the trees produce income.
Further Work
9.        A more detailed agronomic analysis of the models described in this
analysis may be found in Project File (Working Paper C2, Farm Models Used for
the Evaluation of Production and for Economic Analyses of Indonesian Trans-
migration Projects).



INDONESIA
TRANSM'IGRATION V PROJECT
National Mapping and Settlement Planning
Costs and Benefits of Alt.rnative Settlement Mbdels
Establish-                                    Ave. labor surplus   Ave. annual
ment costs   --------- ERR (X)           -        (deficit) in       food surplus
Summary of Models /a                        (US$) /b    Base /c  +20% /d    -15% /e        peak month (m-d)        (kg) /f
Upland Models
1.  1.0 ha dryland Li                         7,000         6         3            8               (8)               1,207
2.  2.0 ha dryland and 1 cow                  7,840        12         8           14              (38)               3,314       3
3.  1.0 ha dryland declining to 0.5 ha,    10,041           9         7           10              (14)                 463
1.0 ha rubber in year 3 & 1.0 ha
rubber in year 6
Wetland (9wamps) Model
4.  2.0 ha bunded wetland and .25 na          9,040        10         7           11              (38)               2,342
secondary food crops (palawija)
/a  Base case of all models includes 0.25 ha houseplot and 200 kg of fertilzer/ha/year.
7E  Including all social infrastructure costs.  However, 50% (US$700) of these costs are excluded from ERR calculations
on the grounds that tranemigrants would receive such goods and services even if they remain in their )riginal areas.
/c  Base case for Irian Jaya.
T7  Base case establishment costs +20%.  For especially remote areas of Irian Jaya requiring large investments in pri-
mary infrastructure.
/e  Base case establial'Ae1t costs -15X.  Based on Repelita III transmigration sites located in easily accessable areas
such as in Sumatra.                                                                                                       I.-I
/f  In kg of rice equivalent.                                                                                                  0 a
7   Not an official model.  Shown here for illustrative purposes.                                                             II!



-77-                               ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION V PROJECT
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)
(NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETTLEMENT PLANNINC)
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Material on Project Subsector
Al   Transmigration Policies in Repelita IV (MOT, March 1985)
A2   Transmigration Program Review (IBRD, April 1981, Report No. 3170-IND)
A3   Transmigration I Project Performance and Audit Report (IBRD,
June 1984, Report No. 5157-IND)
A4   Transmigration Management Development and Monitoring Services.  Findl
Report (UNDP/OPE/INS.791001, Sept. 1983)
A5   Conclusions from Evaluation cf Transmigration Implementation in
Repelita III (Junior Ministry of Tr.uzsmigration, Jan. 1983,
translation)
A6   Tribal Peoples and Economic Development (IBRD, May 1982)
A7   Transmigration:  Achievements, Problems, Prospects by H.W. Arndt
(Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies, Vol. XIX, No. 3, December
1983)
A8   Indonesia's Transmigration Program (IBRD, World Development Report,
1984, Box 505 p. 93, May 1984)
B. Background Material on the Project
B1   Transmigration Project Preparation (Bina Program, Nov. 1934)
B2   Completion of Base Mapping to Support the Transmigration Program
(Bakosurtanal, Nov. 19.,.j
B3   Proposal for a Technical Assistance Team to the Directorate of
Settlement Preparation (PLP, Dec. 1984)
B4   Physical Planning for Transmigration (Bina Program, July 1983)
B5   Advisory Manuals (2) for Phase II and III studies (Bina Program,
Oct.. 1982)
B6   Site Screening and Evaluation Studies - Mid-Term Review (Bina
Program/Technical Advisory Group, Oct. 1984)
87   Quarterly Progress Reports (Bina Program/Technical Advisory Group,
Nov. 1982 to Oct. 1984).
B8   DITADA Transmigration Advisory P!anning Group.  Final Report
(DITADA/TAG, June 1983)
C. Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff
Cl   Detailed Cost Tables
C2   Farm Models used for the Evaluation of Production and Economic
Analysis of Indonesian Transmigration Projects
C3   Detailed Project Components
C4   Training
C5   Aerial Photography and Base Mapping



I:IILANO            ICa                                                                           Is               IND ON                    : IA
SOUrH CHINA SUA                                  C <                   W                TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
INATIONAL MAPPING AND UTTIJNSNT PLANNINGI
BRUNO                                         UX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WA1*IO% OP NI6I@AL0PF08AW ;'YOLTARTCONTRACTS
X    S;    a  l   r>_PM./d Cw... d Ot= at MOT
'at ~~~~~~~~~~
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  A.  O_ie ' quP
I ~SUMA?ERA WIEo  -=                  -e                  .. -r I.                                                            .PACIIC OCEAN 0
14
Cb~~~~~~~~~RA JAVA
0,  NOKA           15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aNAM
%                                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~II
INDIAN OCEAN                       AAFLORES                                          -#
lii            ~~~        ~~is'     12e                  130                   Ise
MAow 



~ 6                    Bands Aceh                                                                                                                                  6
South  China Sea
%////wsd~~Mean                                    MALAYSIA                                                            ,
SINGAPORE
-°sJ)Xa(N2f l/A 8<\/tV ocut' N                                                                                                                                 0°-
N   /     '      t                          MKlm ffi    - l~~~~~~~0  7  15,0   225   300
Padan                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50  100    150
INDONESIA(                                                                  Z                                               o       sE
TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT                                                                                                                    F
-(NATIONAL MAPPING  AND SETTLEMENT PLANNING)                           (U t
z      Existing Maps at Scala 1:50,000                                  Bengku                                                             .   -
LIZ     Project Aerial Photography at Scale 1:50,000                                                                                     Wars. seed FTc EbWE*
Photogrammetuic Manuscript Only at Scale 1:50.000                                    a                                             -
Project Precision Leveling
*    Project Phase 11 and Ill Study Sites                                                                               tung
6 -    940                           97°                           10°                            103l
MARCH 1985



C109       -lSe 1                                                  ~                   118s                         1211       INDONESIA         124°
-60         >TRANSMIGRATION V PROJECT
oe  SO'.  "                                    rg              >                   (NATIONAL MAPPING AND SETrLEMENT PLANNING)
KALIMANTAN AND SULAWESI
I   Existing Maps at Scale 1:50.000
[I] we  j   rProject Bass Mapping at Scale 1:50,000
F7      Project Aerial Photography at Scals 1:30,000
and 1:-50.000
*                                              U     Tarakan                      *  Project Precision Leveling                    3'
30,                              i                                                            2  ^ < Project Ph;e II and IIl Study Sites
Lj4SU~~~~~~~~~~~0
la ~weh         AMARINDA
ti 'w; ' ;; PALANqpR5J > X<z\L PALA
KALINT 
3                                                                                                                                                                     3OLff3t  
|A VA81 SJEA                       NV                                                                       f ANKENDARI  1___t                              _,  |
>         Km°,0   is5  150    225  300                                                                                                      a'f}V  &W AUM&W
Km.                                                                                                                                               W w Nw.
I             0      50    100      150
_ 1090 1!2°   l!5 UJUNG PANDANG                                                                                     0                 J-
co   0og                         112'                         115                                                        12                           124
ZnI,                                                 I                            I                             I                                          I



nALAMING: AND SErTLEMUN
. ~ ~ i9tV >jt1$~J~.Az ~~'                      Yr ~~tTRAN8MIGAATION V PROJECAT
I               &               .     tb       4'fr¶#  *v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt~~~~~~~~~~ .3-  .S*  44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i
5.~~~
'.4  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  lm,-,~-
'c~~~.'rs %~~~~ ..   I .'.k' 'C.t' 7a.-scls 1-100oci
1~~~~~~~~~~~~7
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
~~~ .~~~~~~.q *  Ta    i  NB    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .i.~~~~~~S;
-   ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~* Ž. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   *~t.IR
~'  ~t~4",  ..iL%ft4ttt  .~   oFe 
*  :a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
V  "kSN WmansOnf 
naswp    y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wflm~~~~~~~~~m.S~~~u
I  .-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T+P~



