Dawsunot of
The World Bank
FoR  omcuIL USE ONLY
RPApd No. P-4012-&CI
- fl
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIKECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 6.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR THE
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 4, 1985
II  omeh     oiaanwo  .   m be mm by rdkb ad IN owpfff mo
.;~~o   k     emf esnmrs   dti be dbhw  w_w  Wa   _w  aWdS R mk



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Syli (GS)
US$1            -   Sylis 250 a/
Sylis 1.00      -   US$0.0526
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                     -    3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)         -   10.76 square feet (sq.ft)
1 cubic meter (aS)          -   35.30 cubic feet  (cu.ft)
I kilogram                  -    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                -    0.98 long tons
1 kilometer                 G    0.62 miles
1 hectare                   -    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF     -    African Development Fund
ALIMAG   -    National Enterprise for Distribution of Cereals
BNCP     -    Bureau National des Commergants Prives
(National Bureau for Private Traders)
BNDA     -    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CCCE     -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
EEC      -    European Economic Comunmity
EPCOA    -    Entreprise Prgfectorale de la Commercialisation Agricole
(Regional Agency for Produce Marketing)
FAPA     -    Ferme Agro-Pastorale d'Arrondissement
(District Collective Farm)
FRUITEX  -   National Enterprise for Fruit Exports
DPDRG    -    Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development
(Direction Prefectorale de Dgveloppement Rural de Gueckedou)
IFAD     -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     -    International institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT     -    Institut de Recherche Agricole Tropicale
(Institute for Research on Tropical Agriculture)
MDR      -    Ministry of Rural Development
ONADER   -    Operation Nationale pour le D6veloppement de la Riziculture
(Rice Development Agency)
ORG      -    Operation Riz Gueckedou
(Gueckedou Rice Operation)
PPF      -    Project Preparation Facility
PROSECO  -    National Enterprise for Export of Agricultural
Products (except Fruits)
SAC      -    Structural Adjustmeut Credit
UPC      -    Union Prefectorale des Commercants
WARDA    -    West Africa Rice Development Development Association
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/  The official exchange rate at appraisal in April 1985 was US$1 = sylis
24.4. From October 1985, the Guinean currency has been floating
according to a market-determined rate, which on November 1, 1985,
stood at US$1 = 265 sylis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
GUECREDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Guinea.
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Rural Development.
Credit Amount: SDR 6.7 million equivalent (US$6.6 million equivalent).
Terms:         Standard
Cofinauciers:  African Development Fund (AfDF) and International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD).
Project
Description:   The proposed project is a continuation of the pilot
component of the IDA and AfDF financed Rice Development
Project (Cr. 952-GUT). It aims at increasing the
productivity of smallholders in food and cash crop
production by expanding the scope and area of the first
phase and introducing technical packages for coffee,
groundnuts and cassava, and by strengthening the Gueckedou
Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development. These
objectives would be achieved through; (a) providing
extension services for 16,000 farm families involved in
cultivation of swamp and upland rice as well as other
rainfed and perennial crops; (b) providing training for
Guinean staff and supporting agricultural research to test
and introduce new technical packages; (c) strengthening the
management and administration of the prefectoral service;
(d) seed processing and distribution to farmers; (e)
development of some 2,000 ha of swamp land through low cost
irrigation works, and upgrading of 240km of rural roads
together with their maintenance as well as maintenance of
260km of existing roads; (f) providing agricultural inputs
to farmers through credit; and (g) technical assistance,
consultant services and short and medium term fellowships
for project staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:
The main direct proiect benefits would be the increased
production of rice, other food crops and coffee as well as the opening up
of the rural areas through the road construction and maintenance component.
The project would help test an institution building framework for
strengthening the regional agricultural services, now being contemplated in
the country as a whole. Additional benefits are expected from testing and
establishing simple technical packages for coffee, groundnuts and cassava.
Apart from the risk of drought which could lower production levels for the
rainfed crops, the main risk, namely that the increased prices of
fertilizer and farm inputs following the monetary adiustment might
discourage farmer use of modern inputs, would be met through the project's
credit system. The new internal management system would aid the
introduction and control of project credit and reduce the risk of credit
abuse. Close project supervision and the credit studv in the third year of
the project would monitor its effectiveness and examine the transfer of
credit tasks to the new banking institution which the Government will be
creating during 1986.
Estimated Costs -
Local     Foreign    Total
------US$ million---
1. Management and Administration         0.9       1.9       2.8
2. Extension Research and Training       0.9        1.1      2.0
3. Seed Production Unit                  0.6        1.9      2.5
4. Land Developuent, Roads and
Workshop                              0.8        1.8      2.6
5. Agricultural Inputs                   0.6       3.3       3.9
6. Technical Assistance, Consultants
Fellowshipe, Studies and Audit          -       4.1       4.1
TOTAL BASE COST                          3.8       14.1     17.9
Physical Contingencies                0.2        1.2      1.4
Price Contingencies                   2.1        3.8      5.9
Total Project Costs                      6.1       19.1     25.2
- Project would be tax exempt



- iii. -
Proposed Financing Plan
Local            Foreign            Total
US$ million
IDA                                  -                6.6               6.6
AfDF                                0.7               5.8               6.5
IFAD                                 -                5.0               5.0
Government/Farmers                  5.4                1.7              7.1
Total                               6.1               19.1             25.2
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1986      1987      1988      1989     1990     1991     1992
_______________          _uS$ million
Annual        0.3        1.2       1.4      1.2       1.1      1.2      0.2
Cumulative    0.3        1.5       2.9      4.1      5.2       6.4      6.6
Economic Rate of Return: 23Z
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5581-GUI
Naps: IBRD 189L35
IBIRD 18936



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPoRT AND RECIOMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TEHE ZNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVEOPMT CREDIT
OF SDR6.7 MLION (US$6.6 M=ILION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINE
FOR THE GUECgEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
DevelOpmert Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 6.7 million (US$6.6
milliOu e4nivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Gueckedou
Agricultural Development Project. Additional financing for the project
would be prOVided by the African Development Fund (AfDF) and the
Interi2atioual Fund for Agricultural Development (IAD) for amounts
estimated at the equivalent of US$6.5 million and US$5.0 million,
respectivelY.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1984. This section updates its contents, focusing on changes
in GwEiea's economic situation and policies in recent years.  More
specifically  thqe change in Government following the death of President
Skou Tourg in, garch 1984 has resulted in a radically different political
orientation bhich enlarges the possibilities for close collaboration
between Guinea gad the Association.
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw
declining economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about
1973_7k.  Stimulated briefly by the mining sector, the economy grew rapidly
between 1913 and 76, but subsequently slowed to a rate well below that of
popul8t1on growth. Today, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabitants live at
the 1argiu of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300 in 1984,
Guinea is among the least developed countries as classified by the United
Nations. Life e%Pectancy is only 37 years, infant mortality is about 16
percent, more than 80 percent of the population has no access to safe
water. alnd Similarly 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
1/
This Part is identical to the President's Reports of the Agricultural
Services and the Mineral Sector Manageaent Projects.



4.        In the late 1970s, Guinea began reexamining its development
policies, institutions and relations with the outside world. Important
first steps were taken towards improved economic management and
decentralization of the economy. However, only under a new Government,
which took office in April 1984, has Guinea embarked upon a far-reaching
economic reform program (para. 16). The present Government explicitly
recognizes the need for economic pricing of resources. It further
recognizes the country's need for technical assistance for planning,
investment programming, and project preparation and execution. State
retail trade has been discontinued. Price controls have been permitted to
lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector in
particular. Private investment in all forms is being encouraged, including
foreign direct investment and the return of expatriate Guinean capital.
Private enterprises are now allowed to import and export most goods, for
example, and to borrow and hold foreign exchange. Towards building up the
country's human resource base and tailoring skills to the needs of the
economy, primary education is to be revamped and strengthened, while
enrollment in higher education has been severely reduced and vocational
training expanded. Manpower planning is being introduced, and the policy
of guaranteeing state employment to school graduates has been reappraised
to curtail increases in public employment and the wage bill. These
measures represent fundamental changes from past policies and reflect a
significant and broadly based attempt to address the deep-seated problems
which underline Guinea's poor economic performance.
Recent Performance
5.        Output of the economy is estimated to have grown at an average
annual rate of 1.5 percent in real terms over the five-year period up
through 1984. Although economic growth has fluctuated modestly in that
period, it has consistently remained below the rate of population increase
of nearly 3 percent per annum. A temporary upturn in 1982-83 was moreover
narrowly based, resulting from a rise in construction activity due chiefly
to preparations for the OAU conference that was to be held in Conakry in
May 1984. Much of the economy produces at levels well below potential.
The primary sector, while the most important in the economy (more than 40
percent of GDP), produces below potential due to inadequate price policies
and other incentives. Apart from mining, secondary activity (more than 20
percent of GDP) is similarly weak. In particular, the manufacturing
sector, constituted mainly of public enterprises, produces at less than 15
percent of capacity and registers heavy losses. The tertiary sector
accounts for a relatively heavy 35 percent of GDP.
6.        Although Guinea has consistently realized a surplus on trade
account, these surpluses have been more than offset by rising net service
payments and private transfer payments, important official transfer
receipts notwithstanding. Net capital inflows have not been sufficient to
offset the resulting current account deficits. An important factor is
heavy capital flight from the countrv, the exact magnitude of which is
unrecorded. Guinea has consequently suffered continual reductions in net
foreign assets since 1979, estimated net reserves having dropped to a
negative US$205 million as of end-1984. In addition, Guinea has incurred a



- 3 -
massive accumulation of external debt arrears. At US$223 milllon ns of
end-1984, these arrears represented more than 40 percent of annual
merchandise export earnings.
7.        The Government's own financial situation has been seriously
eroded since 1980, at which time it was in approximate equilibrium. The
erosion is attributable chiefly to poor performance in the parastatal
sector. Receipts from enterprises from taxes and customs duties on food
and services in particular have declined as the private sector has grown to
dominate consumer trade. Similarly, non-tax revenue in the form of trans-
fers from the parastatals to the capital budget have dropped sharply, this
due largely to reduced profits of IMPORTEX, the State trading company, as
its de Jure monopoly has been undermined by private importers. Government
revenue has consequently stagnated in nominal terms at a level of GS 10-11
billion annually in all but one year over the period 1980-84. In 1984,
despite drastic reductions in subsidies to public enterprises and a cut in
capital outlays to half their level only two years earlier, the overall
budgetary deficit climbed steeply to GS 3.0 billion, equivalent to nearly
30 percent of receipts.
8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, most investment in Guinea
is undertaken by public and parapublic institutions. During the 1973-78
development plan period, public investment amounted to a cumulative US$478
million (55 percent of planned expenditure), equivalent to 10 percent of
GDP. The subsequent 1981-85 plan projected a more than doubled rate of
investment and favored collectivized agriculture (31 percent) and industry
(14 percent). However, actual public investment 1981-84 averaged only
US$200 million per year, about the same proportion of GDP as in the
previous plan exercise. Many of the proposed projects remain in
preliminary stages of preparation, and their financing is unlikely. The new
Government, with the help of the Association, is reassessing its project
priorities. Pending the outcome of this assessment, the Government decided
in April 1985 to limit investment to on-going, viable projects with assured
foreign financing. Under the recently approved Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI), the Government will
completely revamp its public investment plan and will introduce in 1986 a
three-year rolling program based on a thorough review of sector and macro
priorities.
9.        Recognizing the need to improve maintainance and utilization of
existing capital assets, the Government has increased the proportion of its
recurrent budget for equipment and supplies, including provision for an
important road maintenance program partly supported by the Association.  It
is also undertaking a serious examination of the viability of state
enterprises. The least successful ones (including the entire network of
retail trade enterprises outside Conakr-) are being closed down. Others
have embarked on rehabilitation programs, mostly with external assistance.
Restructuring of the public industrial sector has started with a major
divestiture and liquidation exercise. It is intended that parastatals that
remain will be financially self-sufficient, autonomous in their management,
responsive to market mechanisms and receptive to technical assistance.



-4-
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
10.       Since the mid-1970s, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized
countries and through expanded relations with Arab nations and multilateral
institutions. Although Guinea successfully negotiated a Stand-by with the
IMF in 1982, the arrangement lapsed owing to the Government's inability to
meet some of the agreed performance criteria and to reach an understanding
with the Fund on exchange rate adjustment. A new Stand-by with the IMF is
expected to be concluded shortly.
11.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investment in
infrastructure and public enterprises has resulted in a burden of foreign
obligations which is excessive in relation to Guinea's debt servicing
capacity. Outstanding public external debt reached US$1.6 billion as of
the end of 1984, of which US$1.2 billion was disbursed. Service
obligations on this debt are projected to average US$132 million per annum
in 1985-87, as against average annual payments of only US$83 million in the
1982-84 period. In 1984, the ratio of scheduled service obligations to
export earnings was 34 percent, whereas actual service payments amounted to
only 20 percent of export receipts. Moreover, scheduled debt service on
private non-guaranteed debt of an estimated US$300 million outstanding
represented an additional 11 percent of 1984 export earnings.
12.       It is evident that Guinea's already heavy payments arrears will
continue to rise substantially in the absence of a major, across-the board
debt rescheduling. In the past, the Government addressed the debt problem
through bilateral rescheduling and measures to improve debt management by
the External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Association
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. Further technical
assistance is underway at the Central Bank, and a request to the Paris Club
and other creditors for a multilateral debt rescheduling is anticipated
once an IMP Stand-by arrangement is in place, tentatively early 1986. The
Government has also undertaken strict control of public borrowing abroad to
ensure that it is contracted exclusively for priority investment projects
and on fully concessional terms. Guinea will in fact have to rely on
substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms during the
next few years. This will be needed not only for investment purposes,
including local cost and recurrent cost financing, but also to provide
foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer goods imports which are
vital to relieve supply constraints and stimulate economic activity,
particularly in the rural sector.
Prospects
13.       Guinea's long-term development possibilities based on its
agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential are substantial.
However, given modest national savings (8.5 percent of GDP in 1984) and
acute shortages of foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential
hinges on the country's ability to provide incentives to agricultural
producers and to attract foreign capital for investment in mining,
agro-industry and, possibly, petroleum development.



14.      To correct Guinea's excessive dependence on bauxite mining for
its foreign exchange, diversification of its mineral production is a key
element In the country's longer-term development strategy. A new diamond
mining operation was started up in 1984. Iron ore mining is a further
possibility nov under active investigation, as are oil exploration and
development of other minerals. In the agricultural sector, following a
major Sector Reviec (GUI-4672, April 15. 1984) organized by the Bank with
the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO),
the Government has launched an important reform of its agricultural
policies to stimulate production of cash crops for export, such as coffee
and pineapples. A long-term agricultural strategy and investment program
are now under preparation with the Association's assistance. This is
described more fully in Part III below.
15.      These initiatives notwithstanding, Guinea will continue to face
serious foreign exchange constraints through the 1980s. Prospects for
foreign exchange earnings in the mining sector will remain governed by
international bauxite markets, which confront a difficult outlook through
at least the medium term.  The downward trend in agricultural exports
experienced in recent years will not be easily reversed, even with imminent
correction of price distortions associated with the highly overvalued
exchange rate. Similarly, expanded domestic production of foodstuffs
sufficient to substitute for a significant share of Guinea's presently high
level of imports can be expected to take place only over the medium term.
16.      Towards realizing Guinea's longer term development potential, the
Association and the INF are assisting the Government in formulating and
implementing a comprehensive economic reform program. The program aims at
encouraging private sector development, notably agriculture, while at the
same time increasing the efficiency of the public sector. The program
indeed represents a dramatic reversal of the previous regime's economic
policies in greatly reducing the Government'a involvement in directly
productive activity and opening up the economy as a whole to the private
sector. Particularly crucial will be a major devaluation with accompanying
measures to correct price distortions throughout the economy. The first
steps in the devaluation have already been taken. These include the
opening of a "Second Window" for limited foreign exchange operations at a
market-determined exchange rate. The authorities have also tightened
budgetary controls and rationalized the programming of public investment.
A total overhaul of the banking system, including the liquidation of the
existing specialized Government banks and the start-up of operations of
foreign-assisted banking institutions will substantially improve support
for trade and other private sector activity. Also underway is a broadscale
public enterprise divestiture program. Finally, to alleviate its burden of
external debt, Guinea plans to seek a multilateral debt rescheduling in
early 1986, as mentioned in para. 12, and to limit its foreign borrowing to
that which can be secured on appropriately concessional terms.
17.      The Association has recently appraised a Structural Adjustment
program and is assisting the Government in mobilizing the support of other
donors. This support, together with an IMF Stand-by arrangement, will be
crucial for Guinea in easing the balance of payments situation in a
difficult transition period and in contributing to a gradual realization of
the country's considerable development potential.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GRoUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
18.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in
FY68 and FY71 for the profitable bauxite mining project at Boke. This
project was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple
production   and the rehabilitation of roads.  Encouraged by the first
results of these projects, the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its
lending program, based upon broad priorities agreed with the Governmeat:
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii)
improvement of human resources; (iii) mining development; and (iv)
development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each of these areas
have placed particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution building
and training. The PY79 First Education Project was very satisfactorily
implemented, and provided a sound basis for the Second Education Project,
which is proceeding well. The First Power Project (FY81), co-financed with
France and Germany, began the rehabilitation of the Conakry power system.
Following the conclusions of the UNDP-finanuced Water Resources Master Plan,
for which the Bank was executing agency, a Second Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project has recently started. It would strengthen the
power public utility and prepare a major hydroelectric project to meet
electricity demand in the early 1990s. A Water Supply project (FT79)
provides similar assistance, and was partially the precursor of the Conakry
Urban Development project (FY84), which assists the Government in managing
urban growth in the capital region. A Second Water Supply Project is being
proposed for Conakry and secondary centers. The Second Highway Project was
successfully completed in 1984 and Highways III (FY84), which includes the
reconstruction of the country's first priority road link, continues with a
third phase of maintenance and rehabilitation under a revamped highway
organization. Implementation of the renovation works under the Conakry
Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Public enterprise rehabilitation
programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project (FY8I) have
begun, although the uncertain climate for private investment before the
change of Government, and the absence of functioning financial
institutions, have limited efforts under the project to promote small and
medium private enterprise. Other operations to assist efforts to promote
private investment, a first IFC loan and investment for the AREDOR diamond
mining company, and the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84),
have also started well despite some technical set-backs.
19.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing development potential. Support for small
private producers, including marketing and financial incentives, and access
to modern technology and applied agricultural research, was almost
nonexistent before the change of Government. Since April 1984, however,
the Government and the Association have agreed on an expansion in IDA-
supported agricultural operations. This has led to the preparation of the
proposed project, and also to the Agricultural Services Project that is
being submitted simultaneously to the Executive Directors. A Livestock
Rehabilitation Project is also under preparation. The Association's role
in the agricultural sector is discussed In Part III. Other agricultural
projects addressing the sector's institutional and training needs are being
prepared in the context of a long-term program to revitalize smallholder
agriculture.



- 7 -
20.       Bank Group operatiors in Guinea now include sixteen IDA Credits
totalling US$202.7 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5 million.
Guinea's disbursement rate of 62 percent in FY84 (disbursements in relation
to the undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other
countries at a similar levels of per capita income and development. Its
disbursement profile matches the Regional profile.
21.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national,
project and sector levels. These aim to improve economic mechanisms by
promoting market forces, and thus would begin the structural adjustment of
the Guinean economv. Support to the directly productive sectors would
increase the rate of economic growth. Specific targets are: (a) provid-
ing, with other donors, financing for imports needed to increase produc-
tion, in support of the structural adjustment features of the overall
reform program; (b) giving priority to policy-based projects that increase
production, particularly in the agricultural sector; (c) introducing
technical assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved economic
management and resource allocation; (d) improving absorptive capacity in
those social and infrastructure sectors which support the productive
sectors, through rehabilitation, and technical and managerial training; and
(e) improving capital flows through the promotion of private direct invest-
ment and increasing the level of cofinancing. Through its support for
sectoral strategies and investment programs, the Association will help the
Government mobilize the necessary increased financial support from other
donors, and plans to organize a Consultative Group.
22.       The Association is planning to expand agricultural operations
once the monetary reform has created the needed incentive structure for
smallholder agriculture, in the context of a long-term strategy for agri-
cultural development, which is under preparation. It is equally important
for the Bank to deepen its understanding of the industrial sector through
additional sector work and policy discussions, possibly leading to a second
industrial rehabilitation operation once the Goverument has defined its
industrial policy and the role of public enterprises. The Association is
also providing technical advice to the Government for possible
diversification of mining activities, and a mineral development project,
which includes promotion of secondary minerals and further work on the
proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project, is ready for presentation to the
Executive Directors.
23.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's disbursed external debt
(public and publicly guaranteed) at the end of 1984 stood at about 11
percent, compared with 8 percent in 1981. The Bank Group's share of
service on public and publicly guaranteed debt, 6.6 percent in 1980, is
expected to decline to 3.5 percent by 1987.



- 8 -     t
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
24.       Guinea's rural sector has a diverse ecological base with the
potential for producing a large part of the country's needs in rice and
other food crops as well as producing large quantities of coffee, cotton,
copra, bananas, pineapples and other fresh fruits and livestock for local
consumption, processing and export. At Independence in 1958, agricultural
commodities accounted for about 58 percent of export receipts with food
imports making up just about 12.5 percent of agricultural export receipts.
Between 1976 and 1981, however, agriculture contributed only about 3
percent to export receipts and the value of food imports exceeded that of
agricultural exports by an average of US$ 35 million per annum or 2.3
percent of GDP. At the same time food crop production has not kept pace
with population increase and food imports now represent about 16 percent of
total imports. Agriculture still provides a livelihood for about 80
percent of Guinea's population but with the growth of the mining sector its
contribution to GDP has fallen from 46 percent in 1973 to 41 percent in
1982.
25.       Rice is the dominant crop in Guinea in all regions except in the
impoverished soils of Guinea's upland plateau, the Fouta Djalon, where it
takes second place in area terms to small millet, "fonio" (Digitaria sp.).
Rice is Guinea's main food staple and national production is estimated at
about 400,000 tons of paddy per year. Until the change in government
(April 1984) and abolition of compulsory marketing through state agencies,
most farmers preferred to produce for home consumption with only minor
quantities going into either local parallel markets or the Government's
official marketing structures.
Objectives and Strategy
26.       The main objectives in the rural sector, as they are evolving
under the new regime are to promote cereal production for food
self-sufficiency, to increase export production, and to raise the standard
of living of the rural population. These objectives reflect the
recommendations of the recent Agricultural Sector Review Report
(No.GUI-4672) prepared by IDA. Because of several years of neglect of
agriculture, a number of issues remain to be resolved to permit an
expansion of rural sector activities. The main issues affecting the sector
include: (i) inappropriate pricing and marketing systems for agricultural
products; (ii) the complete absence of effective and functional
agricultural services for farmers (such as extension, research, input
supply, credit, etc.); (iii) an overstaffed Ministry with poorly trained
personnel and ill-adapted structures; and (iv) lack of resources to permit
a properly functioning rural development Ministry.
27.      The strategy being adopted by the Government to resolve these
issues is still emerging but includes measures: (a) to improve smallholder
agriculture, through services and incentives to farmers and liberalizing
marketing of produce; (b) to reorganize and streamline agricultural
services (extension, research, credit etc.) and concentrate such services
on smallholders; (c) to improve rural infrastructure, develop the country's
irrigation potential, and make agricultural inputs available to



- 9 -
smallholders; and td) to establish a properly functioning central ministry
and develop its planning, investment review and supervision capability.
These measures are being supported by the Association through the proposed
project, an agricultural services project, a recently appraised structural
adjustment credit (SAC), and a study of the national organization and
services in the agricultural sector aimed at identifying programs for
strengthening the structure and functioning of the ministry (para 28) for
support by the donor community.
Agricultural Services
28.      Organization.  Until the change in government in April 1984,
three ministries were responsible for rural development in Guinea. These
were the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of PAPAs
(District Collective Farms or "Fermes Agro-Pastorales d'Arrondissement"),
and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. Responsibility for extension
activities before April 1984 was in theory shared by the Ministry of
Agriculture field level staff and the FAPAs. In practice however, there
was no effective extension provided to smallholders, except under the
IDA-supported Rice Develo'ment Project (Cr. 952-GUI), because of the
Government's emphasis on collective farms, the lack of resources for the
ministry, and the inability of the PAPAs to perform even their primary role
as production units. In April 1984 the Ministry of FAPAs was merged with
the Ministry of Agriculture, and in an administrative reorganization in
December 1984 a single Ministry of Rural Development (NDR) was created
merging the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock. This single ministry
is responsible for all aspects of rural development including extension.
The field level structure in all areas except the Gueckedou region,
however, has not been touched and thus responsibility and functions at this
level remain to be defined. Through a PPF advance that would be refinanced
though the pro-osed Credit, IDA is financing a reorganization and master
plan study that would propose a work program for each of the seven
provinces of the country for the next ten years and estimate the manpower
and financial needs to carry out such a program. To ensure that the work
program is efficiently carried out, the study would propose an
organizational structure for the MDR to cover field level operations as
well as to create a fully functional headquarters, and it would examine
ways of privatizing as many agricultural services as possible. Another
product from the study would be a recommendation on ways to integrate
various externally funded projects into the organizational structure of
MDR.
29.      Agricultural Research.  Except for recent research efforts
undemLtaken in externally financed projects such as the ongoing Rice
Development Project, agricultural research has been completely neglected in
Guinea since Independence. Guinea's main research stations have been short
of equipment and operating funds and all the stations have insufficient
trained staff except for the stations at Baro, Kamalo near Gueckedou, and
Koba which are managed by the Rice Development Agency, ONADER, that was set
up under the Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI). In general
agricultural research work in Guinea is not well coordinated since some of
the stations are under the Ministry of Higher Education while others are
under MDR, without any mechanism for coordina-1ng actions under the two
ministries. The Agricultural Services Project, being presented to the



- 10 -
Executive Directors together with this project, will help define a long-
term plan for the development of agricultural research at the national
level.
Sector Lending and Strategy
30.       Lending Experience in the Sector.   IDA has financed three
projects in Guinea's rural sector. Their implementation was difficult
under the former regime.  The Daboya Pineapple Project (FY76) involving the
development of an industrial estate with some outgrowers was completed to
satisfactory technical si indards. It has experienced financing and output
marketing difficulties since its completion, but with the public sector
reforms planned by the new Government, foreign firms will be invited to
join the project entity to increase production and exports. A Rice
Development Project (FY80) was designed to assist Guinea's key resource in
the rural sector, smallholder agriculture. The design of the project was a
novelty in that Government policy was generally to favor collective
farming, and hence the project did not enjoy whole-hearted support in all
quarters during its anpraisal and early implementation. The project had
two components, a national component, ONADER, to improve rice sector
planning and restart rice research, and the pilot component, Gueckedou Rice
Operation, ORG, to improve swamp and upland rice productivity on some 2,700
family farms in a small part of Gueckedou region. Despite particularly-
ularly difficult initial years the ORG component has been able to achieve a
reasonable part of the ob'ectives set at appraisal. The national component
of the FY80 project has only been partially successful, with a consultant's
study on rural incentives financed under the project serving as a key
element in subsequent agricultural policy discussions, and agricultural
research in the project representing the only ongoing and active research
activities in the country. Management inexperience and inefficiencies, a
dearth of trained national staff, and a high technical assistance staff
turnover have limited ONADER's capacity to do much planning. The ORG
component has however provided a development approach that has been
recognized as a viable alternative to collective agriculture pursued in the
past.  With the new Government's commitment to improve the performance of
the economy, and its emphasis on smallholders, this approach would be
applied to the whole sector. A Livestock Development Project (FY81)
focussed on cattle health through upgraded veterinary services. The
project was cancelled in September 1983 because of the Government's failure
to dismantle the state livestock marketing agency as had been agreed under
the Credit. The new Government has however dissolved the agency and a new
project aimed at rehabilitating the sector was appraised in April 1985.
31.      Sector Strategy.  In addition to the focus on smallholders, the
Association's strategy now recognizes the opportunity to introduce wide
ranging policy and organizational reforms. This is being done through the
proposed project, as well as through the Agricultural Services Proj ect
(para. 19) and a SAC that is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors later this fiscal year. The main objectives of this sector
strategy are to: (i) seek to increase productivity of smallholders in both
food and export crop production, with an early focus on rice, coffee and
fruit crops; (ii) develop satisfactory incentives for farmers; (iii)
enhance the Government's capabilities for policy formulation, investment
planning and project identification and preparation; (iv) improve overall



- 11 -
organization of rural development services including manpower and
structural planning of the MDR; and (v) help create effective and efficient
field level support services (extension, research, data collection,
monitoring and evaluation, credit, and input supply).
32.       Project Rationale.  The proposed project would extend the
successful pilot component of the Rice Development Project to promote
Guinea's smallholder agriculture. The Government sees it as an
organizational model for development in other regions, especially with the
proposed merger of the pilot project unit, ORG, and the existing regional
agricultural service in the project area (para 35). This integration would
reinforce the existing administrative service and avoid parallel structures
in rural development, a key aspect of the Association's development
strategy that is also being promoted through the above-mentioned national
agricultural services study. In this second phase Gueckedou project, the
promotion of low-cost replicable techniques, emphasis on adaptive research
and essential services such as extension, credit, and seed multiplication
and treatment, are key ingredients of Guinea's strategy to emphasize
smallholder development. This pioneering development of smallholder
agriculture in Guinea as well as the increasingly productive dialogue on
rural sector organization, call for further IDA support, through the
project, to pursue these encouraging initatives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Obiectives and Description
33.      As noted, the project is a continuation of the pilot component of
the IDA- and AfDF-financed Rice Development Project (Credit 952-GUI of
August 28, 1979) and will build on the experience of the first phase. It
was appraised in October 1984 following preparation by consultants and the
Government. Negotiations were held in Washington in July 1985 with a
Government delegation led by Mr. Tolo Beavogui, Ambassador of Guinea to the
United States. Staff Appraisal Report No. 5518-GUI is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data appear
in Annex III. The principal aims of the project would be: (i) to increase
the productivity of smallholders in rice production as well as production
of coffee, groundnuts and cassava; (ii) to reactivate the Gueckedou
prefectoral service of the Ministry of Rural Development by integrating its
activities and those of the project into a single Prefectoral Rural
Development service; and (iii) to improve available technical packages in
the forest region.
34.       Project Description.  The proposed project would finance a five
year rural development program that would: (i) strengthen the management
and advrnistration of the regional service; (ii) provide extension services
for some 16,000 farm families involved in cultivation of swamp and upland
rice as well as other rainfed and perenrial crops; provide training for
Guinean staff and support agricultural research to test and introduce new
technical packages; (iii) treat and distribute seed to farmers from seed
produced on a mechanized seed multiplication farm and through contact
farmers; (iv) develop some 2,000 ha of swamp lands through low cost
irrigation works and upgrade 240 km of rural roads and maintain them as



- 12 -
well as 260 km of other existing roads; (v) provide agricultural credit for
project farmers; and (vi) provide technical assistance, consultant services
and short and medium term fellowships for project staff.
Project Implementation
35.       In the pilot project. ORG was created as a project unit working
independently of the regional service of agriculture in the Gueckedou
region.  In practice the only extension activities in the project zone are
t'hose done by ORG. Lack of operating funds has prevented the regional
service from providing any extension service in the zones not covered by
the pilot phase. In support of the Government and Association strategy to
strengthen the mainline ministry, and in view of the fact that the proposed
project would cover the entire Gueckedou region, the project will absorb
all the activities of the Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Rural
Development (DPDRG) and ORG to form a single service for rural development
for the Gueckedou region. During the project Implementation period, their
activities would also cover two districts of southern Kissidougou
prefecture included in the project. Government has already signed a decree
merging ORG and the prefectoral rural development service into DPDRG and
has given the latter full responsibility for the two southern districts of
Kissidougoa during the project period.   A Guinean national with
satisfactory qualifications and experience has been appointed as head of
DPDRG.
36.       Management and Adm4nistration.  There will be a management and
administrative team responsible for running the agricultural service in the
region. Apart from the General Manager, this team would include an
expatriate Technical Director, a Financial and Administration department
responsible for project accounting and personnel management headed by an
expatriate financial administrator, a project credit unit, a supply
department - responsible for purchases and procurement, and a monitoring
and evaluation service for the project. The role of the team, aside from
project management, would be to provide the support services (procurement,
fuel supply etc.) needed for the smooth implementation of the project. It
would be provided with vehicles and the necessary equipment and would be
responsible for the project construction program, as well as input supply
and credit administration. Because the agricultural services both at the
national and provincial levels are still not functional, and may not be for
the next few years, the project's administrative and fi-nancial autonomy
will be important factors determining the success of the project.  As a
temporary measure until the provincial and national rural development
services become functional, the Government has agreed to ensure that DPDRG
has financial autonomy under the Minister or his designated representative.
37.       Extension, Training and Research.   The project would finance
vehicles, equipment, local staff and an expatriate Extension Specialist
(for three years) to provide extension services for smallholders. The
extension service of the region would be structured in accordance with the
Training and Visit System (T & V). This represents a change from the Phase
I approach which had some elements of the T & V System, but lacked the
systematic training of staff and farmers. The service will be sugmented by
the inclusion of selected staff from the existing regional structure and



- 13 -
Government has already selected the staff to be included in the project and
has drawn up a plan to redeploy excess staff from the region.
Complementing the training methods inherent in the T & V systems of
extension, a training program for all staff has been formulated. In view
of the lack of adequate training of project staff during Phase I of the
project, it takes into account the fact that, in Guinea, formal training in
agriculture has been weak, that there has been no follow-up training for
staff, and, with the exception of the Phase I project staff, the absence of
basic logistic support has resulted in regional staff doing little or no
work. Although the Government must eventually launch a national retraining
program following the agricultural services study (para 28), its exact
nature and timing are yet to be formulated. To ensure proper training, the
project would finance, for three years, an experienced expatriate training
officer, as well as equipment and supplies for running a training center in
the project. A training centre was constructed under the pilot ORG
component and the proposed project will provide supplies and operating
means for the centre. All expatriate staff are also required by their
terms of reference to provide systematic training for national staff and to
participate in implementing the training plan drawn up at appraisal.
Applied research as started under the pilot phase would continue and the
project would provide funds for research into high yielding rice varieties,
improved maize and groundnut vrrieties and virus tolerant cassava. The
project would also train women extension workers.
38.       Seed Treatment and Distribution.  The project will expand seed
production to meet existing demand under Phase I, and that of Phase II.
Most of the seed will be produced by contract seed farmers for sale to
project participants. However the project will continue to provide
equipment, spare parts and inputs for producing some seed on the project
seed farm, whose size will be reduced from 160 ha to 90 ha. The project
will also finance the operation of a seed treatment plant constructed
during the pilot phase.
39.       Swamp Development and Rural Roads.  The project would finance
vehicles, equipment, spares and materials for a rural works department
within the service that is responsible for swamp development based on
simple techniques developed during the pilot phase, and for construction
and maintenance of rural roads. The project would also finance an
expatriate rural engineer, for four years, to be responsible for running
the deparment. For swamp development, the department will do the studies,
lay out the canals and supervise the construction of bunds and canals and
levelling by the farmers. It will also be responsible for road
construction under force account.
40.       Input Supply and Agricultural Credit.  Credit adminlstrstion
would initially be done by a Credit Unit, to be established within the
Financial and Administration Department (para. 36). The Unit would keep
separate accounts for the credit component that would be audited annually.
All credit repayments will go into a credit fund to be used to finance
local costs of inputs and the local component of the agricultural credit.
This fund will also be used for financing the foreign exchange component of
non-incremental inputs from the fourth project year. For the first three
years, all foreign costs of inputs would be financed by co-donors after
which the Government would provide foreign exchange for non-incremental



- 14 -
inputs. The operation of the credit component would be reviewed in the
third project year. If, as expected, a viable and functional institution
capable of running agricultural credit in the country has been established,
the balance in the credit fund would be passed on to that institution,
which would then be responsible for credit to the project farmers. For
this purpose 12 staff-months of consultant time have been included in the
project costs for a credit study to make recommendations on the future of
credit in the country and in the project area. This study would take into
account progress in the reform of the banking system currently being
carried out by Government and propose the mechanism for transferring credit
fund from the project authority to the banking institution. The project
would seek to encourage farmer associations with a view to facilitating
credit administration and more importantly to make farmers more responsible
for their own affairs. A rural organization consultant visited the project
area in early July 1985 and has prepared proposals for organizing farmers.
41.        All short term credit would be for a one year period and medium
term credit for land development and other agricultural equipment would be
for three years. The Government would ensure that: (a) all input prices to
farmers would reflect their real purchase and distribution costs in the
case of imported inputs and production costs in the case of seeds and
seedlings; (b) all medium term credits, except for land-development, would
require a 25 percent down-payment; and (c) both short and medium-term
credit would bear a minimum interest rate of 10 percent (or any higher rate
that might be fixed by the Government for such credit in the monetary
reform program).
Project Costs and Financing
42.       The project's total cost net of all identifiable taxes and duties
(from which it would be exempt) is estimated at 6.3 billion syJis (US$25.2
million) of which about 4.8 billion sylis (US$19.1 million) is in foreign
exchange. The cost estimates include 591 million sylis (US$2.4 million) of
recurrent costs associated with maintaining activities under the ORG
component of the Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI). Physical
contingencies of 10 percent of all costs, except for resident technical
assistance and local personnel, have been included. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the following basis: for foreign costs, 7.5
percent for 1986 and 8 percent for 1987-1990; for local personnel costs, 26
percent for 1986 and 10 percent for 1987-1990; and for local goods and
services, 20 percent for 1986 and 12 percent for 1987-1990.
43.       The Association, AfDF and IFAD would finance the project's
foreign exchange costs, with the exception of the foreign exchange portion
of recurrent input costs from the fourth year of the project on. The IDA
Credit of US$6.6 million equivalent would finance the foreign costs of half
of the vehicles, equipment, and spare parts, first year agricultural inputs
and the total foreign costs of the resident technical assistance. The AfDF
Credit (US$6.5 million equivalent), like the IFAD Credit (US$5.0 million
equivalent), on terms similar to the Association's Credit, would finance in
parallel the foreign costs of half of the vehicles, equipment and spare
parts, the total costs of building construction and foreign costs of fuel
and lubricants. In addition the AfDF has included funds for financing in
parallel preparation studies in the forest zone, support for certain rural



- 15 -
development activities (livestock, wells, medical supplies) and the
equivalent of US$0.7 million in local costs. IFAD would finance in
parallel, the costs of fellowships, consultants studies and audit and the
remaining foreign costs of agricultural inputs. The remainder of local
costs, US$5.4 million equivalent (1.4 billion sylis), would be met by the
Government and project beneficiaries. The conclusion of satisfactory
financing agreements between the Government and the AfDF and IFAD would be
a condition of IDA Credit effectiveness.
44.     Future recurrent costs.  A number of activities which are
developmental in nature, such as swamp development, seed production farm,
feeder road construction, and technical assistance are not expected to
continue after the fifth year of the project. The annual recurrent costs
after project completion to cover such iteLis as management and administra-
tion, the operating costs of the extension and training systems, and
maintenance of rural roads are expected to be of the same order of magni-
tude as the Government allocations made during the project period.
45.       Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds. To provide the
flexibility to finance certain itpms and materials purchased directly by
the project, a Special Account in foreign exchange, equivalent to US$
100,000, would be established in a commercial bank in Conakry. IDA would
replenish the account on receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements
from the fund for allowable expenditures. To meet the needs of local
expenditures, the Government would open a project account for the
Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development at a commercial bank in
Gueckedou. Requirements in local currency would be estimated quarterly and
would form the basis upon which the local currency account at Gueckedou
will be replenished and maintained. The opening of the revolving fund and
an initial deposit of 80 million sylis (US$0.3 million) covering the first
six months of project implementation are conditions of Credit effective-
ness.
Procurement and Disbursements
46.       Procurement.  All activities are being financed in parallel by
the donors and hence items financed by AfDF and IFAD will be procured
following their procurement rules. Procurement of vehicles and equipment
(US$0.8 million), and purchase of agricultural inputs (US$0.3 million)
would be subject to international competitive bidding, while procurement of
spare parts and small items of equipment (US$2.2 mdllion) would be by
international shopping. All bidding packages for IDA financed goods over
US$50,000 and works over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review
of procurement documentation. The selection of resident technical
assistants (US$3.3 mnilion) as well as their terms of reference and
contracts would be subject to IDA approval. Signing of satisfactory
contracts for the project's technical assistance positions would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. A table detailing procurement
arrangements is in Annex IV.
47.       Disbursements.  Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed
over a period of six years. Disbursement profiles have been based on the
West Africa Region profile for area development projects, modified to take
account of the disbursement experience under the Rice Development Project,



- 16 -
where disbursement for almost all categories has exceeded appraisal
estimates except for fuel where no disbursements ivere made because the
Government decided to finance it. The proposed IDA credit would be
disbursed as follows: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles,
equipment, spare parts and supplies (US$ 2.8 miliioA, with total
expenditure not to exceed US$ 3.0 million); (b) 100 percent of the total
foreign costs of agricultural inputs for the first project year (US$ 0.3
million); and (c) 100 percent of the total foreign costs for resident
technical assistance (US$ 3.0 million).  An amount of US$ 0.5 million would
remain unallocated. All disbursement requests would be fully documented.
48.      Accounts, Audit and Monitoring.  DPDRG would keep separate
accounts for the project, maintained in accordance with acceptable
accounting practices to reflect the operations of the project. To ensure
appropriate control over expenditures and use of project facilities and
goods, an internal management control and a basic accounting and progress
reporting system has been prepared under the Rice Development Project for
use by project management. An audit firm has reviewed the accounting,
agricultural credit and internal control procedures in place and has helped
introduce an appropriate management, credit and accounting control system
to be used in this second phase project. An expatriate financial
controller recruited under the project would supervise accounting and
adminIstration and ensure an adequate internal control system.  All project
accounts, including the separate accounts kept by the Credit Unit, would be
audited annually and aiditors acceptable to IDA would be employed to ensure
good financial management. The Prefectoral Directorate of Rural
Development would submit a semi-annual progress report and annual financial
statements which would reflect the physical and financial performance of
the project. The annual audit report, to be submitted within six months of
the end of each financial year, would include a statement on the adequacy
of the accounting system and internal controls and on compliance with
financial covenants.
Markets and Prices
49.       Marketing.  Prior to April 1984, most marketing activities were
considered a public sector responsibility and until 1981, private trade was
proh'bited and officially considered an anti-social activity. Over the
years. the Government had set up a comprehensive system of state trading
enterprises at different levels of the marketing process. Farmers were
subject to compulsory marketing quotas requiring every producer to deliver
a quantity of agricultural produce equivalent to a value of 600 sylis
(US$25 at the then prevailing exchange rate). Between 1981 and 1983, a
certain number of reforms were introduced including legalization of private
trade and official suppression of the quotas. Since April 1984 the new
government has emphasized its intention to enlarge the role of the private
sector in marketing and it has taken some measures including: removing
road blocks that were used to control movement of goods; liquidation of
IMPORTEX, the state enterprise that was responsible for all imports and
exports; and rehabilitation of private marketing unions, the BNCP ("Bureau
National des Commervants PrivEs") and the UPC ("Union Prefectorale des
Commergants") that had been inactive previously.



- 17 -
50.       Despite the official ban that was placed on private trade before
1981, a large parallel market existed, especially for foodstuffs as well as
for coffee that was exported clandestinely to neighboring countries. With
the announced liberalization policy of the new government, the free market
nov operates unhindered and internal trade in agricultural produce is now
encouraged. While the existence of the public marketing system per se will
not affect the project, it is essential that producers in the project area
be allowed to market their produce freely. The Government has accordingly
agreed to permit private sector trade in local rice and coffee at all
times. Imported rice could compete unfairly with project produced rice if
its price remained at the low level of 20 sylis/kg, and as is happening
under the liberalization policy, large quantities of imported rice found
their way to central and eastern Guinea. the principal markets for project
produced rice. The Government therefore has agreed to ensure that there is
no subsidy on imported rice and will hold annual price consultations with
IDA on rice and coffee prices. These would take place in the first
calendar quarter, before the planting season. Marketing of groundnuts and
cassava would continue to be done by private traders.
51.       Prices.  Despite Government fixed producer prices for local rice
and coffee, only a small portion of these products goes through the
official marketing system. Their prices are therefore determined on the
free (or parallel) market that has existed in the country since 1981.
Average prices for paddy vary from 45-60 sylis/kg in eastern Guinea and for
coffee from 150-400 sylis per kg in the forest region. Shelled groundnut
and cassava prices average about 72 sylis per kg and 25-30 sylis
respectively. These prices are not expected to change very much with the
production from the project though they may increase slightly with
devaluation. Prices for coffee are expected to go up with the purchase by
private traders from farmers for sale to PROSECO, the official Produce
Export Agency, in Conakry. PROSECO would pay traders at least 80 percent
of the world market (FOB) price, which should permit traders to pay farmers
at least 400-450 sylis per kg, failing which farmers would be encouraged to
regroup and organize their own marketing.
52.       Impact on Farmers' Income.  Farmers participating in the project
normally derive their incomes from various sources other than rice which is
principally meant for family consumption. However, their main activities
revolve around and are dictated by rice cultivation. Hence, in preparing
farm budgets we have limited ourselves to rice and crops grown in rotation
with rice (groundnuts, casava), as well as coffee. Assuming that prices of
all crops remain the same as now, with the exception of coffee prices going
up to 400 sylis per kg, the net incomes per worker day would increase by
about 35% on cassava, at least 50% on upland rice and groundnut, and by
more than 100% on swamp rice and coffee at full development, despite
substantial increases in per ha costs over the without project situation.
The population in the project area is generally poor and its annual income,
derived mainly from subsistence consumption, averages about 4,600 sylis
(US$190) per capita at official pre-devaluation prices compared to a
national (DP per capita average of 7,200 sylis (US$300) in 1983.
53.        Project Benefits.  The main quantifiable and direct benefits
from the project would be the increased production of paddy and coffee, and
of groundnuts and cassava if the technical packages being introduced for



- 18 -
these pilot activities are successful. At full development the project
would result in incremental production of about 15,700 tons of paddy
(10,000 tons of rice), 700 tons of groundnuts, over 600 tons of coffee and
over 8,000 tons of cassava. In addition the project would generate over
764,000 days (2,600 years) of additional employment per year for the rural
population, not counting the employment of project permanent and temporary
staff. The road construction and rehabilitation program would provide a
very useful service in the Gueckedou area. The project's other benefits
include the testing of an institution building framework (through
integration of the pilot phase project unit, ORG, and the regional service
of agriculture) that would be applicable for agricultural development
elsewhere in the country. The project would also continue the testing of
simple technical packages for swamp development, groundnut and cassava
development and coffee pruning that have been successfully implemented
under similar conditions elsewhere in West Africa. The project's economic
rate of return (ERR) has been estimated at 23 percent. Including all the
benefit and cost streams of the ORG component, the ERR is estimated at 16
percent.
54.       Risks.  The main project risks, apart from the risk of drought
which could lower production levels for the rainfed crops, concern the
possible effect that the large proposed increase in fertilizer prices from
18 sylis per kilo currently to about 100 sylis per kilo would have on
farmer use of modern inputs. This could affect farmer input use and hence
lower production, although it is expected that the credit component will
help encourage input use. Another risk may involve the operation of the
credit component itself, where project staff inexperience may lead to poor
management. The internal management control and accounting system that has
been set up is aimed at facilitating credit administration and hence would
reduce the risk of poor management. The credit component will be followed
closely during implementation and if the banking reform program undertaken
as part of the structural adjustment program progresses as expected, credit
administration would be transferred to any new financial institution set up
for the purpose after the credit study.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 4, 1985
Attachments



- 19 -                                           ANNEXr
mU. of 6
(NOST REUR TENATIb
hOIT           LOW loom  AFrICA        "MhloL
1ooLb        m    EUW97b38M  OF SRAL                     AFRICA S. OF uSwa
ARUR (201Ufl   P4. no
TOTAL                             245.9      245.9       245.9
AGRICLTURAL                        64.0       *S.7        45.7
4mw      cin Coal                      ..         ..       300.0              213.8                   1063.8
sa Cuumwm" a CAP&TA
(RILOCRAS OF OIL baUuvALN)         35.0       SO.0        54.0              62.3                    SIL.5
roUL4TU A  vimL IsT Isnco
FPIuLATOW.NZD4EAR CTROUSAI)   3850.0        4490.0      5330.0
URUAN POITIU CZ t T wT              9.9       13.9        26.0              20.1                     32.0
mowDLfTIOU vuwJBCnONI
POULATIOH 111 YE  2000 CHILL)                            8.3
STATIONLAT FOPULAUOM (HILL)                             25.0
POULATlON nulm                                           1.3
roPuLATION 061817W
rPE SQ K                         15.7       18.3        23.7              33.2                     65.1
PER SQ. KM. AURK. LAND           37.5       98.2       125.0             112.6                   1U4.0
POPULATION AGE STUCTUEC (C)
0-14 TRE                        '2.0       62.5        43.0              44.0                     45.6
15-4 Y135                        55.1       54.6        53.2              50                      51.5
65 AD A31                       Z4         2.3         3.1               1.9                      2.7
POPULATION GROWIN IRATE (C)
IDYAL                             1.1        1.5        2.0                2.3                      2.9
URDAU                             T.0        4.9         5.1               6.4                      5.1
CR3UD. BItTH RATE (PgR TDUS)       46.0       46.0       47.0               47.2                    47.0
CRUKD DEATR RATS (PE 7OUS)         30.3       26.9       26.7               17.6                     15.0
moDSS IWEOCStON KATE                2.9        2.9         3.2               3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (SHOUS)
USERS CR OF HARID  WON)           ..         ..          1.0 e             3.3                      6.4
INDCZ OF FOOD PROD. PRM CAPIU
(196-71-100)                       97.0      101.0       34.0               33.3                    32.9
PER CAIPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOIES (I OP RRQOIJSEMTS)       70.0       79.0       *0.0               37.7                     98.5
PRTEINS (cRANS Pr DAY)           34.0       37.0       3J.0               51.9                     55.4
OP VRCRI ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0        6.0         7.0 Ic           1J.?                     16.5
aCNM  (ACES 1-4) DRAI RATE         57.7       48.3        36.0              23.1                    16.6
ESAI
LIFE EXPEC. AT SLKE  (TEAS)        34.7       35.4       37.3               47S                     52.0
WANAT  MT. RAT (PC TmooS)         207.5      18.5      159.0              119.5                    108.3
ACCESS TO SA5 WATER (EPa)
TOTAL                             ..          .         17.0 1d           27.1                     42.4
URSBI                             ..        68.0        69.0 H            63.5                     67.5
RURAL                             ..         ..          2.0              19.3                     35.8
ACCESS TO ECRTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        13.0        13.0 Id           26.5                     28.9
DRE1M                             ..        70.0       54.0 9             65.4                     57.7
RURAL                                        2.0        1.0  _            20.8                     20.7
POPULATION P  P1R1SICLAM       33770.0    35510.0    17110.0 Ic         27901.7                 11791.7
POP. PER NUSING PRSON            4040.0     2220.0     2570.0 j           3306.                   2459.8
POP. PER NSPILTAL ND
TOTAL                          1410.0      670.0      660.0 1.          1273.6                   981.1
URIJN                           260.0      240.0        oo.0o            n2a.2                   368.3
RURAL                          2760.0      960.0       760.0 re         3292.5                  4371.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  ED         ..        16.0        ..                ..                      27.2
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URm                               ..         ..
AVERSE NO. OF PERSNSIROOK
TOTAL                             ..         ..
UR                                .           .          ....
RURAL                             ..         ..
PEUCEiTAGE OF NIELLICS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             .          --         5.0 /t
mau                               ..         ..         .                  ..
RDURL                             ..         -......



-20 -                                            ANNEXI
PACE 2 of 6
-SOCIAL lot     A~~0j(EIWDAERGS 
IIOJT                    ("      kNOBT 2CEN ESTiA)
IIU:IT         L INME AFRLW [   AlICA    IUI  umeu
l9lO*k    ,170L      STMAIna        SOuTM OF SAARA       AFICA S. OF SAHAR
ADJUSTD  LROIJW   RATIOS
PULYIi  TOTAL                     30.0        13.0       23.0 d             17.J                      95.J
PALE                   44.0        53.0        44.0 7            77.                      100.0
FEALE                  11.0        21.0        22.8              54.9                     *3.2
SUCONDARII TOTAL                   2.0        13.0        1.0 8             13.5                      11.3
.L415                  3.0       21.0        23.0 71            37.9                     33.0
FMALZ                   ..          5.0        9.0                9.1                      14.6 
VOCATIONAL (2 OF sECONA)            21.7         3.2        2.7 /d            13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TZACHR RATIO
RIMARY                            1.0         44.0       3.0                44.9                     41.1
SZCOIDARIY                        21.0        23.0       24.0               27.4                     23S1
PASSENERu CARTEOUSAID PO             1.4         2.2        ..                 3.                      20.S
RADIO hRCReIuS/THOUSANo FO          10.2        20.3        26.A              53.S                     107.
TV RECEIVEMS/THOUSAND PMo            ..          ..          1                 2.5                     20J
NEISPAPR C"DAILY GCEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSOND POPULATION             0.2         1.1         3.7 L,            S.O                      15.4
CINA ANN   ATDACCAPITA               ..          ..          ..                0.3                      0.4
TOTAL LUAO  FORE (THOUS)          1910.0      2140.0      2327.0
ruAL (PERCENT)                    40.4        40.3       41.1               344.                     36.2
lAGRIaUIJRE t(PECENT)             3S.0        *5.0       *2.0 f             77.5                      54.5
iOUSTUT (PLRT                      6.0         8.0        11.0 7             9.7                     1U.3
PARCIPATION       (PER CEIIT)
TOTAL                             49.6        57.7       4.3                39.3                     31.0
MLEU                              59.4       537          52.2              50.9                     47.1
FEAL                              I9.9        38.1       33.3               28.1                     27.2
ECONMC DEPENDNCY RALTIO              0.9         1.0         1.1               1.3                       1.3
71101 DISIUI!
PECER OF PRIVATE tNCS
RZCZIVwD ET
EICEISS 5 oF DS.IISENOD..
HICIS5T 20S OF Ns1MW               ....
LOMEST 20S oF 1OS S                ..          ..          ..                ..                        .
LOAMST 40S  OF ..r..N.. .   .    .
OI     TAMOT GO
ESTIMED AISOWLEITZ POMERt INCO
LEVEL (USS PER CAMIA)
URA                                ..          ..          ..              15.5                      590.7
RtrgAL                             ..          ..          ..               95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED RLATVE r1075? INCOME
LEVEL CUSb PER CAnTAl
UU                                 ..          ..        70.0 7f           113.1                     545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               t7.6                     201.l
ESTIMATED POP. BE1.07 ABSOLUTE
POVERTY nICOSE LEVEL (S)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..               36..
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               61.t
NOT AVAILABLE
ot APPLICABLE
u o T c s
Ia   Thu group  verages for each luceter ar papelatlSo-w.1*ted .ritluetic moma. Coerag  of ceatrtaB
mug ahe Coudlcators depesi an availabllty of det md to not smlta!.
lb   Unlee otbDeDiie uoted, 'Date for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970" betwem
1969 and 1971; ad data for 'Met Reoet lstmate" bete 1931 sod 1983.
/c  1977; Id 1980: /a 1976: /f 1978; (A 1979.
JUIE, 1985



-  21 -                                              A'EX -
.                               . ___________________________________________________  Page   3    of    6
DErNITONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOIS
Noset Althaugh the data are drawn from sours gerlly judged th mas aulhoriunave and reliable it sud aLso be noted thdt they may not be internationally
comparable becaue a  e lack of standaed defitions a ond cacepts used by dilre nt caunsti in coekting the datr. The data uar nonethless. useW  to
describe ordm of mrmiude. indiate trends, and charactene cerami MAojor dilferenus betwe  counties.
The rnefence groups are ( l the same country group o the subject country and (21 a country group with omewhat higher svenge ineo thatn the county
group of the subjectcountry teacuep for High InclmmeOd Exponerss group whee -Middle Income North Afria and Middle Eaut is chosen bemue of sroner
sooculuru afilniu. lot he reerence rup daavtheVa are populnuon weighted arithmeticans for each indicator and shown only when majority
d the countries in a group ha darn for thai indieatoi Sinem the coverae orcounuies amoop the indicaton depends an ie availability of data nd is not uniform.
caution must be exesed in reating averages of -ne indiatoDr to anoiher These averages amr only usrul in comparing the value crone indicator a a ttime among
the country aNd reference roupr.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude MeshRate (per thowaadi-Number of ive births in the year
Ttal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of nuid-yor population: 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                         Crudi Death Ruse (per thousasdj-Number of deaths in the year
Agrcstiral-Estimate of agricultural area used tenporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1993 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gro= Reprodaea Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her nonmal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-peclfic fertility rates: usually five-year averagcs ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversiot method as World    fasl  Plauuig-.Aceepsror. Aima (thoumdsi-Annual num-
Rank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data,                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices underauspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary encrgy (coal and lignite.        f-I Plavtiq-(sers (peans of married men)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal ciec-   tage of married women of child-bea;ing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally wvomen aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is mcasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
anttalplauieu. MM-Year 19ha3 datad-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMION
and 1983 data.
tonder of hod Produtcivx Per Ca*a (19l9-7J - IOEL-Index of per
Urban Population (percent P1 toralJ-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodides (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populton ProW,etiaon                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population n year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with informnation on   vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. ferti.it rates. mortality rates and  livestock products \ggregare production of each country is based
international migration ia dhe base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita Suppy of Calois (percent ofreqafrenrnruj-Comput-
Statiorv population-Is one in which age- and se-ipacti5c mor-     ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultancously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Innt reproduction rate = II. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. eeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
co. stant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processingL and losses in distribution. Requirements were
consunt. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   ettimated by FAO b.rcd on physiological needs for normal whisin
size was LIrimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temnperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemnent le-el.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Afomentum-s the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Proteu (Xrmspfr doy)-Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that replacecmnt-leked fcrtility has been  per capita net supph of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grans of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate staionary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 srams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popio Densitry                                                    average for the world. proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Prr sqkrm.-Mid-year population per square Lilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Proein Supply Fronm Animal and Poise-Protein supply
Per sqicm. agricultural land-Computed as dbove for agricultural   of food derived from animalsand pulscs in grams perdaz: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data
Popultion Age Stmere fpercent)-Children 10-14 years). work-       Child (ges 1-4) Death Rate (per thousanud-N umber of deaths of
ing age (I15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
opAlauionr Growth Rate (pmcurce-roral---Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
epulation Groiwth Ratre (percent)-uran-Annual growth rates         Life Erpenancy at  irth (vaersn-Number of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-7-0. and 1970-83 data       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalitv for all people



- 22 -                                        ANNEX T
Page 4 of 6
at the dme or of is birth were to stay the same throughout iu life;  Puptl-tacher Ratio . prln,a. and mondary-Total studeno es-
1960, 1910 and 1983 data.                                     rolled In primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
lifur Mortay Rat (per th_osmd)-Numnber of infans who die      teachen in the correspondgn. levls.
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births In a liven
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 dta.                                CONSUMPTION
Accens to So  War (pumt of populerlm)-tataIr wham. md         PuSm         Cars r fft_owu d populaioin-4Passeger cars con-
wra-Number of people (total urban and rual) with reasonable   prim motor cars sating les than eight peroru; exclude ambul-
-acces to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  ances. hearss and military vehicle.
untreated but uncontaminated water such u that from protected  Rd  Receivers (per trhsaamdpopularia)-All types of recive
borebole spriup and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of populadon;
tive populations. In an utbmn area a public founain or sandpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yeas when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be con ider  registration of rdio sts wu In effect data for recent years may
as being within reonable access of that house. In rua    e     tot be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonble acces iumld imply that the housewife or membr ofR theetossadopilds)T   wvesfrbracs
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the dy  Reel p  per thousadpopulatkn-V  rcdves for broadcast
in fetchin die faiys water needs                              to general public per thousand populatlon. excludes unicensed TV
infemtcWog E   famitDsp   (pter ncedtsoj populutiouj-roral    receiven in countries and in yeas when registration ofrTV wts was
Acem to Emma DbJapd (pret of PpulaioJ  totdl, wl-.            In effct
ad rnura-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  n elet
excreta dispoal u percentage of their respecive populations.  Newspaper Cbwlre (Pe thousand populudm)-Shows the aver-
Exca diposal may include the collection and dispoal. with or  ae circulation of daiy gneral In t newspaper' deined a a
without treatment, of hbnun exacreta and waste-water by water-  periodial publication devoted primarily to recording eneal new.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appeas at let four dume a week.
fosplaitin per Pyjsfa-Ibpulation divided by number of prac-   Cinma Annual Attenda  per Capo  per Yuar-Bued on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year including adrissions to
Pop,ato per  sing Peom-Population divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,  LABOR RCE
practical numns and nursing auxiliaries.                                FORCE
Pop    per Hospital Aed-torl when and rawl-tPopuaion           otli Labor Forc (thesandu-Econoducally acuive persons, in-
(total urban, and rural) dmided by th  respective number of    luding armed forces and uneo ployd but exclud ng houewnines
hsiabesavailable in public and private, general and    al3dsuet,ec.cvrn   oulto   falae.Dfntosi
hospitals and revabiritadon centem Hospitals are estailishments  vanous countries are not compamble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fenwk (pecar)-Fanale labor force as percentage of total labor
WdMng principally custodial care are not included- Rural hospitals  force.
however, includc health and medical centers not pemaendy staffed  Agrcuue (perJe)-Labor force in farming forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assisunt nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of to, il labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical racilities.                                        industry (percenrJ-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adnos per Hospital Bed-Total number or admissions to or       facturing and electricity, water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parcpatin Rtr (percenr)- ta4   , madfenal-Participation
HOUScNG                                                       or activity rates are computed as total male and female labor force
Auee Si-e of Houeld (person per houselid)--oroaf. wham,       as percentages of totl male and female population of all ags
andraral-A household consist ofa group ofinvidualswho hare    respectively, 1960 1970. and 1983 data. Thes   are based on lL0s
living quarnts and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-s  suctue of the populat and
may not be included in the bousehold for statistical purposes  long tuie trend. A few estimates are from nadonal sources.
Avere Nwmber of Perse  per Roonm-oreal, urban. and  rul-      Econeu DeWpdency Rato- Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the w-rking age population (those aed 15-64).
occupied conventional dweUings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBLTIO?N
Perntage of Dwels with Electrici- roral. urban, ed rural-     Perentage of Tota Diposablk 1ncm  (both in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in-living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings resixtively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AdIusted Enollment Ratios                                     The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primary shool - rotal, mal and femae-lcross total, male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female nrolment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Ewiated Absolute Pw.overty Incow lewel (USS  per ceplaJ-wam
resective prunay school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income lkvd is that income level
consider prtnary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages nd duration of school  non-food requiremcnts is not affordabl.
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estinmted Aea,e Povery Incomw Lee (US per capita)-J whan
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capit personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                          derived rrom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - rotal, ma  and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
seondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmaed Populton Below Abslte Poerty Incomw Levd (per-
mary instructon; provides generaL vocationaL or teacher training  rent)- arhan and ral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocafial Eirollmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industrial or other programs w}ich opeate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             Junc 1985



- 23-
AMX T
Pep S 0 6
C10~
a ocr > l9" ho S    o                   r . m m
am  1wDmL " =  US 119                              Amal pAa of OM&  M2,   utm~ Pdcn)
tI'  MR         2    197377    197741       197341      19114
c 0SC        Pr1e           196U       100        4.59       0.22        2.16       LOG
0i   vC1c 1mall 21                      10       -6.35       7.0         0.0        7.00
OwettooSt saI                179         9       -3.         0.01       -1.70         -
OMug A         kAm -b            L      -1       21.25     -3.77        -6.92
ltIC d af0i.U s              527        27       30.61       2.3        1.5.3       1.O0
?pe d, Ss   lE.                        -22 -W_   20          3.         11.44         -
00W, LAS WM AM flWW tn 15913
Value Adde                   LabYom                      VAP pIr lbdr
hplailWzU           710         42.38          32m             92.00         35t          51.!5
ir1 v  4 t&df    383           22.66            271            10t.9        133          193.6
sezvlio            56           36.75           173             7.02         244         509.8
t      bA1Mq       1675        10.M            2466           100.00         67-        OIJD
CUUIL                                  CDP
Uffl1a  Svlf                           2 oP (
1191      192      1983       19U      lit       159go2    1963    1984
Owiwt Rmlptu             11.52      15.35     10.23     10.74    32.66    40.9    2.17    91.0
Qmmnt D udlr              7.n4      9.09       70        9.92     19.97    24.27   .1767    19A
Outwit Sgphu       /      4.48      6.21       2.43       .83    12.n       16.71     5.51      1.6
rApLg1 "pMUMtoIC          5.73      6.34       2.93      3.85     16.25     11.58     4.65      7.5
RKtcbzM1 AMU1atu          1.80      OM.3       0.83      -.22      5.12     2.21      1i       -.4
Td)
IU. Syli
bC. 1980          DeC.1961           Doec. Igo          DOe. 1963
M      d qimdy-                   t2.50               17.19              16.16             17.55
BE& Ccr     t filO C Smw;r         18.50             18si               15.59              17.76
Bdc Cram to  L%.C  Sectr           1.21               1.02               0.59               0.63
1960              1981               1982               193
IrW  ad quet.=   - % of (g    77.4                   49.69              39.86             40.28
GA=l 1dm  fld  (1981-10)          91.9              1OD.0              104.4              116.4
Ad -%  q-  s                 _
C &      cr5 to 1t1 Se          114.9              -6.65             -10.00              14.34
mCr   to Pdwwe Sectr            W.3               -16.00             -2.16                6.71
-ub,.2Z, 195



-  24  -                     ___
X3o3LIC or waouz
?"DI PAIMU    CAM lTTAL nL
SALANcc  Or PATHTS
LO7_9   1930    1931    1982    1983   1934
-    (UTNIJIU         -             Cli-T.
eonrte of Coocd                           36      496     493      444      503    521
leon. of Goodc                          -333    -395    -445    -390    -330   -423
Trqe Baines                                31     101       43      64      123     99
Service. aHd Private Trmncftrr (mat)    -97       -99    -128    -124    -140   -140
IrtermCt N 6 L/T Debt                 -23      -23     -22      -25     -21    -21
Imnvtaunt lncom                       -13      -40     -56      -54     -70    -69
Other Servwi    (not)                  -49     -28     -41      -36     -40    -40
Vorers' Ramictameam                    -7       -8      -9       -9      -9    -tO
OfliciLal Transform (nmt)                   9      17       16      26       13     19
Balance on Current Accout                 -57      19     -64      -34        1    -22
Direct Foretgn lnvrstc_t                   37      22       30      23       31     34
Not ML. Borrotag                           37      14      56       20      62    -23
Otcbvre nts. Publtc Borrowing          131     119      142      87      92      79
Aortiaatlnn. Public 8orrovtyg         -65      -73     -61      -53     -46    -34
Subtotal. Publlc Borromiug              46      46      31       34      46      -5
Private Sector (at)                   -29      -32     -23      -14       16   -20
other Capital (,t2/                       .-1       I       11      31      -3    -12
Other  ital Cn.t.-                        -32     -90     -99      -56    -153    -a
Chos en lto   ra C- - itcr.eae) "          29      34       72      11      62      63
Cross Reserve  ( nd year)                  65     101       92     133      129
Not Reserves (and yer) I/                -204    -240     -76      -87    -142   -205
Fuels and Related Materials
Imports                                56       84      97       86      33      87
of Which: Petroleus                     56      34      97       et      83      87
Ueport                                      0       0       0        0       0       0
Rmsm oP SuC           t/
1975    1976    1977   1978   1979   1980   19f1   1982   1983   1484
SylistUSS   20.33   21.38   21.14  19.72  19.11  18.97  20.0'  22.36  23.37   ;..29
MERCRAIIDISE EXPORTS (Averag  1980-84)         ErEmAL  DEBT. December 31. 1984
(tn constant 1982 prices)
USS an                                                USS on
Bauxits              334.4      70.1           Publitc Debt
Alumif               127.0      26.6           Incuditg Undisbursd          1570.4
Diaods                 6.6        1.4          Outatandfig & Disbursed    1167.3
AgricUltural
Cm.dition            9.2        1.9
Tocal                477.2     100.0           DEBT SUMCE 9ATIOS FOR 1984
-z
lMI/IDA LENDING (PErch 31. 1985)               Scbeduled Service Payents   44.3
USS mln               Ptblic                       34.0
IBRD       IDA             Private Debt Non                                                         -
Guarantcad               11.3
O0tatanding &
Disbursed           41.5     103.3
Undisbursed          0.0      36.4
Outstsnding
including
undisbursed         41.5     194.7           Actual Service Paymnts
Public Debt                 19.9
Private Debt Non Guarant'd n.a.
11 Merchandise exports/imports only.
2/ Including capital transfrs to. and investment on behalf of. state
nterprises.
3/ GOP pliIett deflator.
4/ Includes errors nd oeissions. and SDR allocations tn 1980 and 1981.
!I  Discrepawles due to different excbage rates.
1 Debit balawne of S213 millton under bilateral payment arrangements
converted 1981-82 to MLT lo n.
7/ Period geometric average.
NI Debt service an a percentage of mrcbandise ezports.
October 22. 1985



- 25 -
Pap 1 of 2
THE RM.BIT OF GJIWA
sA'UJS m aD ma aQETN iN Gum
A. Statmt of Bm*t loan end MA Credits (as of Septud,r 30. 1985) *
Amuit (less c- atfrnu)
(sS$ th11on)
Creit
Number       Year   Borrowmr    Purpose                              Bmiw        mA, 1/ Uldisburue  1/
wo loans and trsee Cr{edts have been fully disbursed                73.50      28.99.
870-G        1979   Outnea        First Water Supply and Suuitasi              12.50       0.74
952-I        1980   Qdiea         Rice D evlnpuat                              10.40        1.53
953-WI       19E0   Qiie          Second lIiWu                                 13.0n       0.26
1063-I       1981   Guiza        Livestock Deweopmit                            2.11       0.15
1085-I       1981    ndma        Powr                                         28.50        0.66
1234-WI      1982    udin         Iirsrial      s    a                         19.00      12.03
aid Prnotio
1341-M       1983   Qiima         Secod Eductim                                11.00       8.55
1382-W       1983   Gunea        Canoky Part                                   13.00       4.25
1438-I       1984   Qirea        Petrolem ExplaratLk  Pzwtior                  8.00        5.81
1457-QI      1984   Qdne         Third Rigmy                                  28.00       26.07
1466-WI      1984     uiu                          Dr                          10.70       9.55
1559-WI  L, 1985   Guina          T.A. for Ecoai       gc    g.50                         9.29
1595-GI      1985   Ouinea       Sed Paer & Te i                               8.00        8.00
Total                                          73.50    202.70       86.89
of  hic has bm repaid                       34.0k      0.00
Total nw beh   by Bwk ad MA 3/                 39.46    202.70
Total urdlbursed                                0.0      86.89       86.89
1/ Beg     g vith Credit 1063-GI, Ciedits have been dcmiatted in Special Drafng Riis. The dollar
awts in dtese coles represent the doLx eqtivalaeint at the tim  of credit negtiatiu   for the
IDA amiomts aid the dollar equivalaits as of September 30, 1985, for the undisbursed aments.
(1 SD ' US$1.05940).
2/ Not yet effective.
_IPrior to exchang adjustments.
*    he stats of the projects listed in Part A Is described In a .qerte report on all RakIDA
financ    projects in exeaotm, 4di is updated twce yearly aid cirwiatad to the }meudve
Directorson ApLri 30 ard Octdoer 31.



- 26 -
ANR rr
Pape 2 of 2
B. Statuient of C Iumt.s  (as of Septa*w 30, 1985)
FiHal Yew      Ok2g                              Type of Dmied       To       M            Totlr
1983        Sodht Hfxte, Aror Q   , S.A.  Dliud Mlzrng             13.6       1.2        14.8
Total Gn0zCm itss                                     13.6       1.2         14.8
TAM C ellAto, Termitiats,
Rqieyiurttsaid Sals                                   0.1        -           0.1
Total CcinuidJts uow hold by DC                       13.5       1.2         14.7
UzdlfxnwA Pla2mme                                      0.0       0.0          0.0



27 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First IDA mission to consider the project:   April 1983
(b) Project prepared by: Government and consultants
(c) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(d) Project appraisal: October 1984
(e) Negotiations completed: July 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1986
Section II     Special IDA Implemtentation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Merging of ORG and Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of
Agriculture, and extending DPDRG responsibility to two
southern districts of Kissidougou (para. 35);
(b) Appointment of a suitable Guinean national as bead of
the Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Agriculture
(para. 35);
(c) Cross-effectiveness with the AfDF and IFAD agreements
(para. 43);
(d) Opening of the Special Account and the local currency
Revolving Fund (para. 44); and
(e) Signing of contracts for the project's technical
assistance positions (para. 45).



- 28 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Other Special Conditions:
(f) Financial and operational autonomy of the project under
MDR (para. 36);
(g)  Input prices to reflect full cost of imported inputs
and, in the case of seeds, full cost of production
(para. 41);
(h) Government to make available necessary foreign exchange
for procurement of recurrent inputs from year four of
the project (para. 43);
gi) Government at all times to permit private trade in
locally-produced rice, remove consumer subsidies on
imported rice, and review rice prices annually with IDA
(para. 49); and
(j) Government to permit free internal marketing of coffee
for sale to PROSECO at a price at least 80 percent of
the FOB world market price (para. 50).



- 29 -
Annex IV
GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Hethod*
* ~~~~~~~~~ -                                US$  million---
Inter-
national                      Total
Items to be procured        ICB        Shopping     Other      N/A   Costs
Vehicles and Equipment       1.6        0.5 a/       0.1         -     2.2
(0.8)      (0.3)          -         _    (1.1)
Spare Parts                  -          3.8 b/        -         -      3.8
(1.9)                         (1.9)
Fuel and Lubricants          -           -           2.5         -     2.5
Other Operating Costs         -          -           0.3 cl    1.6    1.9
Construction                 -           -           1.1 c/     -      1.1
Agricultural Inputs         5.5          -           1.2         -     6.7
(0.3)        -            -         -    (0.3)
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Fellowships      -           -           5.1 d/     -      5.1
(3.3)            (3.3)
Wages and Salaries                                    -         1.9    1.9
Total Costs              7.1         4.3         10.3        3.5   25.2
(1.1)      (2.2)        (3.3)      --    (6.6)
-         ,      
Figures in parentheses refer to IDA financing.
al Furniture and equipment spread over time and difficult to regroup into
larger packages.
b/ Spare parts to be purchased over the five years for existing as vell
as new vehicles, and equipment.
c/ Financing would be by AfDF procedures. The other operating costs to be
financed by AfDF represent support for rural development activities
(para 4.05).
dl Employment of consultants and technical assistance staff would be
in accordance with IDA guidelines.



GUINEA                        
GUECKEDOU
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
-     PA%IzoOh                                           Y                 # r
." wa-    l                                                         -. <
- ~   ~ ~ t    -                     5                   |                 L IB E R I 
/ y   s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(gy'~~~~~~ '-
.M."  f" M                                                                                                          um .
I-"w~-                                                                 iv  e  5J
_S.~~~~-S f,,,S  ,JW 
,,                                         |                          _       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



*W --                                  t                       S/-8   
ZZI
71
Mr,~ ~~~~~~~a



