Document o.
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Coy #       3;-- #C  ,
Report No. 5581-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULfURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 7, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Syli (GS)
US$1                Sylis 250 a/
Sylis 1.00          US$0.0526
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
1 meter                     =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (W2)         =   ln.76 square feet (sq.ft)
I cubic meter Cm3)          =   35.30 cubic feet  fcu.ft)
1 kilogram                  =    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                     0 0.98 long tons
1 kilometer                 =    0.62 miles
1 hectare                   =    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF     -   African Development Fund
ALIMAG   -   Natfonal Enterprise for Distribution of Cereals
BNCP     -    Bureau National des Commergants Prives
(National Bureau for Private Traders)
BNDA     -    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CCCE     -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
EEC      -    European Economic Community
EPCOA    -    Entreprise PrEfectorale de la Commercialisation Agricole
(Regional Agency for Produce Marketing)
FAPA     -    Ferme Agro-Pastorale d'Arrondissement
(District Collective Farm)
FRUJITEX -   National Enterprise for Fruit Exports
DPDRG    -    Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development
(Direction Prefectorale de Diveloppement Rural de Gueckedou)
IFAD     -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     -    International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT     -    Institut de Recherche Agricole Tropicale
(Institute for Research on Tropical Agriculture)
MDR      -   Ministry of Rural Development
ONADER   -    Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la Riziculture
(Rice Development Agency)
ORG      -    Operation Riz Gueckedou
(Gueckedou Rice Operation)
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
PROSECO  -   National Enterprise for Export of Agricultural
Products (except Fruits)
SAC      -    Structural Adjustment Credit
UPC      -   Union Prefectorale des Commercants
WARDA    -    West Africa Rice Development Development Association
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/   The official exchange rate at appraisal in April 1985 was US$1 = Sylis
24.4. From October 1985, the Guinean currency has been floating according
to a market-determined rate, which on November 1, 1985, stood at US$1 = 265 Sylis.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
GUECKEDCU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE    ........... .............. iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........    ....................... v
GUINEA BASIC DATA SHEET  . .................................... viii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. THE RURAL SECTOR .1
A. Country Background                  .I
B.  Sector Characteristics, Objectives and Strategy  .. 2
C.  Agricultural Services and Institutions.                4
D.  The Rice Development Project.                          6
E.  Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank
Involvement .10
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................... 11
A.  The Project Area  ..........    ....................... 11
B.  Project Objectives  .........    ...................... 13
C.  Project Description  ........     ...................... 14
D.  Detailed Features  ................................ 14
1. Management and Administration  ....     ......... - 14
2   Fxtension, Training and Research .15
3.  Seed Production and Treatment .16
4.  Land Development. Rural Roads and Garage          17
5.  Input Supply and Agricultural Credit .17
6.  Technical Assistance, Consultants and
Fellowship Program .18
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .19
A. Ccst Estimates .19
B. Financing .21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Baah-Dwomoh, D. Drayton, A. Bab (IDA Staff -
Western Africa Projects Department) and Mr. M. Neave (consultant).
Ms. M. Nguyen (IDA) joined the mission in the field and assisted it.
Secretaiial work was done by Mrs. C. Asare. Figures were checked
by Mr. Sinodinos.
This document has a restricted distribution and maay be used by recipienzs only in the performance of |
their of!icial auties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
C.  Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds   ......... 23
D.  Procurement and Disbursement  .....     ................ 24
E.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements  ....... 26
V.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION        ............................... 27
A.  Organisation and Management  .....     ................. 27
B. Organisation of Extension and Training,
and Staffing    .................................... 28
C. Credit Organization and Administration ............. 29
D. Monitoring and Evaluation  ........................ 31
E. Recurrent Cost Coverage after Project
Implementation    .................................. 31
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMER BENEFITS  ....... 32
A.  Technical Packages .................................. 32
B.  Production and Yield Summary           .. 35
C.  Consumption, Markets and Prices  .....    .............. 39
D.  Impact on Farmers'Incomes  ......     ................... 42
VII.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS    .       .45
A. Direct Benefits.... 45
B. Other Benefits               ..... 45
C. Economic Analysis              . . ...45
D.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  .. 48
E. Risks                ....49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .     .50
ANNEXES
3-1 Training Plan
3-2 Agricultural Credit Program
3-3 Consultant Services
3-4 Study Trips and Short-Term Attachments
4-1 Siummary Costs (DPDRG)
4-2 Su-ary Costs (INCREMENTAL)
4-3 ORG1 Recurrent Cost Summary
4-4 Quarterly Disbursement Forecast
5    Organization Chart
6-1 Production Summary
6-2 Farm Enterprise Budget-Rice
6-3 Farm Enterprise Budget-Coffee Rehabilitation
6-4  Farm Enterprise Budget-Coffee Plantation
6-5 Farm Enterprise Budget-Groundnuts & Cassava
7-1  Key Assumptions and Parameters used in Economic Analysis
7-2 ERR - Sensitivity Analysis



- iii -
GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENTT PROJECT
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
A.  Project Workinp Papers (Available from WAPA A)
1.  TECHNICAL
1.1  Extension System
1.2 Training
1.3  Seed Production
1.4  Input Use
1.5  Area, Yield and Production Development
1.6  Rural Works Component
1.7 Rapport d'Evaluation, Genie Rural et Am6nagement
2.   PROJECT COST TABLES
2.1  Summary Project Costs (DPDRG)
2.2  Summary Project Costs (INCREMENTAL)
2.3  Summary Recurrent Costs (ORG)
2.4  Investment (DPDRG)
2.5  Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Costs (ORG)
2.6  Fuel Costs (DPDRG)
2.7 Non-Fuel Operating Costs (DPDRG)
2.8  Recurrent Operating Costs (ORG)
2.9 Personnel Costs (DPDRG)
2.10 Personnel Costs (ORG)
2.11 Agricultural Credit
3.  FARM BUDGET ANALYSES
3.1  Farm Enterprise Budget - Rice
3.2  Farm Enterprise Budget - Groundnuts and Cassava
3.3  Farm Enterprise Budget - Coffee Rehabilitation
3.4  Farm Enterprise Budget - New Coffee Plantation
4.  ECONOMIC ANALYSES
4.1  Economic Analyis Table
4.2  Sensitivity Analysis
5.   FINANCIAL ANALYSES
5.1  Financial and Accounting Arrangements
5.2  Agricultural Credit and Input Distribution - Procedures



- iv -
6.   TERMS OF REFERENCE - EXPATRIATE STAFF
B.  Additional Supjporting Documents
1.   Guinea Agricultural Marketing Survey
2.   ONADER - Etude de la Factibilite de la Deuxieme Phase
(1985 - 1989,
3.   ONADER - Etude de la Factibilite de la Deuxieme Phase
Dossier Complementaire
4.   Supervision Reports - CR 952-GUI
5.   Etude de la Rehabilitation de la Cafeiculture dans la Region de
Gueckedou
6.   Stage de Formation sur l'Introduction du Systame de Vulgarisation
"Formation et Visites" dans l'Operation Riz Gueckedou (O.R.G.)
7.   Operation Riz Gueckedou:  Organisation du Monde Agricole.



-v-
GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Guinea.
Beneficiary: - Ministry of Rural Development.
Credit Amount: SDR 6.7 million equivalent (US$6.6 million equivalent).
Terms:         Standard
Cofinanciers:  African Development Fund (AfDF) and International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD).
ProJect
Description:   The proposed project is a continuation of the pilot
component of the IDA and AfDF financed Rice Development
Project (Cr. 952-GUI). It aims at increasing the
productivity of smallholders in food and cash crop
production by expanding the scope and area of the first
phase and introducing technical packages for coffee,
groundnuts and cassava, and by strengthening the Gueckedou
Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development. These
objectives would be achieved through; (a) providing
extension services for 16,000 farm families involved in
cultivation of swamp and upland rice as well as other
rainfed and perennial crops; (b) providing training for
Guinean staff and supporting agricultural research to test
and introduce new technical packages, (c) strengthening the
management and administration of the prefectoral service;
(d) seed processing and distribution to farmers; (e)
development of some 2,000 ha of swamp land through low cost
irrigation works, and upgrading of 240km of rural roads
together with their maintenance as well as maintenance of
260km of existing roads; (f) providing agricultural inputs
to farmers through credit; and (g) technical assistance,
consultant services and short and medium term fellowships
for project staff.



- vi -
Benefits and Risks:
The main direct project benefits would be the increased
production of rice, other food crops and coffee as well as the opening up
of the rural areas through the road construction and maintenance component.
The project would help test an institution building framework for
strengthening the regional agricultural services, now being contemplated in
the country as a whole. Additional benefits are expected from testing and
establishing simple technical packages for coffee, groundnuts and cassava.
Apart from the risk of drought which could lower production levels for the
rainfed crops, the main risk, namely that the increased prices of
fertilizer and farm inputs following the monetary adjustment might
discourage farmer use of-modern inputs, would be met through the project's
credit system. The new internal management system would aid the
introduction and control of project credit and reduce the risk of credit
abuse. Close project supervision and the credit study in the third year of
the project would monitor its effectiveness and examine the transfer of
credit tasks to the new banking institution which the Government will be
creating during 1986.
Estimated Costs 1-
Local     Foreign    Total
-      S-ITS$ million---
1. Kanagement and Administration         0.9        1.9      2.8
2. Extension Research and Training       0.9        1.1      2.0
3. Seed Production Unit                  0.6        1.9      2.5
4. Land Development, Roads and
Workshop                              0.8        1.8      2.6
5. Agricultural Inputs                   0.6        3.3      3.9
6. Technical Assistance, Consultants
Fellowships, Studies and Audit          -        4.1      4.1
Total Base Costs                         3.8       14.1       17.9
Physical Contingencies                0.2        1.2       1.4
Price Contingencies                   2.1        3.8       5.9
Total Project Costs                      6.1       19.1      25.2
Project would be tax exempt



- 'vii -
Proposed Financing Plan
Local             Foreign            Total
--  US$ million -
IDA                                   -                 6.6               6.6
AfDF                                 0.7                5.8               6.5
IFAD                                  -                 5.0               5.0
Government/Farmers                   5.4                1.7               7.1
Total                                6.1               19.1              25.2
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1986      1987       1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
US$ million
Annual        0.3        1.2        1.4      1.2       1.1      1.2       0.2
Cumulative    0.3        1.5        2.9      4.1       5.2      6.4       6.6
Economic Pate of Return: 232
Maps: IBRD 18935
IBRD 18936
WAPA A
November 1985



- viii -
GUINEA BASIC DATA SHEET FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Unit          1974-76 Av.  1981
1. Population
Total                                                      M               4.7        5.6
Rural as Z Total                                           Z              84         80
Rural Families                                            '000           611        720
2. Economic Overview
GDP/Head of Total Population (constant 1981)               $             320        303
Agric. GDP/Head of Rural Population                         $             164       155
Agricultural GDP as 2 of Total                              Z              43        41
3. Land Use
Land Area                                               sq. km.           246       246
Perennial Crops                                         '000 ha           131       135
Annual Crops                                            '000 ha           912      1267
4. Outputs 1/                                            74-75 Av. - 100
1. Rice                                                   "              100        105
2.  Fonio                                                 "               100       240
3.  Cassava                                               e               100       120
4.  Coffee                                                                100        45
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                                              '000 tons        n.a.         0.5
6. Trade (Current Prices)
Total Exports (F.O.B.)                                      $m            186       496
of which:
Agricultural Products                                  X               5.4        1.0
of which:
1. Palm Kernels                                     x              35        32
2. Coffee                                           %              25         45
3. Pineapple                                        X              31          6
Total Imports:                                            Sm             257        423
of which:
Agricultural Products                                  Z               9         16
1. Rice                                             x             n.a.         43
2. Vegetable oil                                    2             n.a.          9
Agricultural Inputs                                    X             n.a.       n.a.
7. Government Expenditures
Total Recurrent Budget                                     $tm           212        336
of which:
Agriculture                                            Z             n.a.       n.a.
Total Capital Budget                                        $m            174       274
of which:
Agriculture                                            2              17          4
1/ Volume indices
n.a. Not available



GUINEA
GUECKEDOU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Guinea has requested IDA's
assistance in financing the second phase of an agricultural development
project in Gueckedou region of Guinea's forest zone. The project would
follow up and expand on the pilot component of a Rice Development Project
that became effective in April 1980 and for which disbursements are
expected to be completed by the end of 1985. The pilot project covered a
relatively small area of Gueckedou region but has demonstrated that a
larger scale development based on the simple technical package introduced
Is possible in the area. The follow-up project then, would seek to; (i)
increase the area. number of farmers and productivity of suallholders in
rice production as vell as production of coffee, and introduce pilot
production activities in groundnuts and cassava in the whole of Gueckedou
region and a small part of Kissidougou region through the provision of
improved agricultural services; (ii) reactivate and strengthen the existing
Gueckedou regional rural development service; and (iii) continue the
applied research and training of Gulnean staff started in the first phase
project. Project preparation began in April 1983 by consultants and was
substantially completed by February 1984. On the basis of a review of the
preparation report and following a change in Government In Guinea the
consultants revised the report and submitted a final report to Government
and IDA at the end of September 1984. Government then requested that the
project be appraised. The appraisal was carried out by the Bank's Regional
Mission in Abidjan in October 1984.
II. THE RURAL SECTOR
A.   Country Background
2.01      Guinea has a land area of some 246,000 sq. km and an estimated
population of 5.8 million growing at 2.8% per annum as of 1983.  Despite
excellent mineral and agricultural resources and a vast agricultural
potential, the economic performance over the past several years has been
poor with per capita GDP growth of 0.4Z per annum between 1973-1981 and a
1983 per capita GDP of US$300.
2.02      The main reasons for Guinea's poor economic performance started
with the abrupt termination of relations with France at independence in
1958, followed by an isolationist policy along socialist lines without the
benefit of a transition period and a back-up of technical assistance
support and adequate macro and sectoral planning. Formerly productive
sectors declined rapidly, the institutional base deteriorated and monetary
pressure induced creation of its own currency, the syli, and subsequent
rapid over-valuation. Government controls on trade and price levels



-2-
resulted in major economic distortions; and lack of incentives particularly
in the rural sector, as well as Government regulation that all agricultural
products be marketed through state agencies caused stagnation of the
economy and a reversion to subsistence farming in rural areas. Despite the
emergence of bauxite and other mineral exploitation, revenues were used for
inappropriate investments in inefficient public sector ventures, for
promotion of various kinds of collective farms and mechanization and for
financing a rapidly growing public sector payload. Guinea currently has
serious balance of payments and debt servicing problems and the economy has
been characterised by extreme dualism where there exists two parallel
sectors, one in which transactions are carried out at an overvalued
exchange rate and an unofficial sector where transactions take place at a
parallell exchange rate ten to twelve times the official level. The
official sector accounts for an estimated 28% of GDP and 45% of the
monetized sector. Since the overthrow of the old regime in April 1984, the
new Government is determined to reverse the poor economic showing.
Additionally there is a dearth of trained technical and professional
manpower and a general lack of institutional and managerial capacity and
technical data with which to launch a rapid recovery.
2.03      To help resolve some of these problems, IDA has just extended a
credit for a Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management
(Cr. 1559-GUI) to assist the core economic management ministries. IDA has
also appraised an Agricultural Services Project that would provide some
technical assistance for planning and investment review in the agricultural
sector. Another priority area being tackled by Government, the Bank and
IMF is the correction of macroeconomic distortions through a major economic
program, for which an IDA Structural Adjustment Credit and a Standby
Agreement are about to be negotiated.
B.   Sector Characteristics, Objectives and Strategy.
2.04      Characteristics.  Guinea's rural sector has a diverse ecological
base with the potential for producing a large part of the country's needs
in rice and other food crops as well as producing large quantities of
coffee, cotton, copra, bananas, pineapples and other fresh fruits and
livestock for local consumption, processing and export. At independence,
agricultural commodities accounted for about 58% of export receipts with
food imports making up just about 12.5% of agricultural export receipts.
Between 1976-81 however agriculture contributed only about 3% to export
receipts and the value of food imports exceeded that of agricultural
exports by an average of US$ 35 million per annum or 2.3% of GDP 1/.
Agriculture still provides a livelihood for about 80% of Guinea's
1/   For detai'ls on trends in agricultural export receipts and imports, see
Agricultural Sector Review. Report No.GUI-4672 of April 15, 1984.



population but its contribution to GDP has fallen from 46Z in 1973 to 41%
in 1982. At the same time food crop production has not kept pace with
population increase and food imports now represent about 16% of total
imports.
2.05      Rice is the dominant crop in Guinea in all regions except in the
imf-verished soils of Guinea's upland plateau, the Fouta Djalon, where it
takes second place in area terms to small millet, "fonio', (Digitaria sp.).
Rice is Guinea's main food staple and national production is estimated at
about 400,000 tons paddy per year. Until the recent change in Government
(April 1984) and abolition of compulsory marketing through state agencies,
most farmers preferred to produce for home consumption with only minor
quantities going into either loc&l parallel markets or through Government's
official marketing structures.
2.06      There are three main ecological zones for rice production:  a)
the forest region, which includes the area of the pilot component of the
ongoing Rice Development Project, is suited for rice production both in the
uplands, where rainfall is fairly reliable, and in the many small valley
bottoms ("bas fonds") ideally suited for simple water-control techniques;
b) the tree savamnah area of Upper Guinea with its many tributaries of the
Niger-Tinkisso basin is a producer of both rainfed rice and of river-plain
flooded rice; and c) the mangrove swamps along the Maritime Region where
saline marsh rice is grown. However the lack of proven and reliable
technical packages and inputs as well as the absence of an extension effort
focused on the smallholders in the maritime and the savannah regions has
meant that the potential for developing rice production in these areas is
underdeveloped. In both the maritime and savannah regions the Rice
Development Project financed research activities aimed at developing
suitable technical packages for these zones (para 2.19). An Agricultural
Services Project, recently negotiated, would supervise research activities
and a first effort at extension for mangrove and sweet water rice in the
Koba area of maritime Guinea to be financed by the European Economic
Community (EEC), while the French Aid Agency, the "Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique" (CCCE) and the EEC are financing a cotton-food crop
project including development of rice and other cereals in the savannah
region.
2.07      Objectives and Strategy.  The main objectives in the rural
sector, as they are evolving under the new regime, are to promote cereal
production for food self-sufficiency, to increase export production, and to
raise the standard of living of the rural population. These objectives
reflect the recommendations of the recent Agricultural Sector Review Report
(No. GUI-4672) prepared by the Bank Group. Because of several years of
neglect of agriculture, a number of issues remain to be resolved to permit
an expansion of rural sector activities. The main issues affecting the
sector include:
(1) inappropriate pricing and marketing systems for agricultural
products;



- 4 -
(ii) the complete absence of effective and functional
agricultural services for farmers (such as extension,
research, input supply, credit);
(iii) an overstaffed Mlnistry with poorly trained personnel and
ill-adapted structures; and
(iv) lack of resources to permit a properly functioniug rural
development Ministry.
2.08      The strategy being adopted by Government to resolve these issues
is still evolving but includes measures; (a) to improve smallholder
agriculture, through services and incentives to farmers and free marketing
of produce; (b) to reorganize and streamline agricultural services
(extension, research, credit etc.) and concentrate such services on
smallholders; (c) to improve rural infrastructure, develop the country's
irrigation potential, and make agricultural inputs avalable to
smaliholders; and (d) to develop the planning, investment review and
supervision capability of the central Ministry and establish a properly
functioning central Ministry. These measures arn being supported by IDA
through the proposed project. an agricultural se.-rvices project, a recently
apPraised SAC. and a study of services in the agricultural sector aised at
identifying programs for extension and other services for the rural
population (para 2.10).
C. Agricultural Services and Institutions
2.09      Administrative Structure. Until the change in Government in
April 1984. three Ministries were responsible for rural development in
Guinea. These were the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, MKbistry of
FAPAs (District Collective Farms or "Fermes Agro-Pastorales
d'Arrondissement"), and Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. In April 1984
the Mlnistry of FAPAs was merged with Agriculture, and In an administrative
reorganization in December 1984 a single Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR) was created merging the then Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock.
The new Ministry has three State Secretariats under it responsible for
Agriculture and Livestock, Water Resources and Forestry, and Fisheries. In
addition to the State Secretariats, there is a Secretary General whose role
is to coordinate all rural development activities and to advise the
Minister on strategy. This single Ministry will be responsible for all
aspects of rural development. The field level structure, described below,
however has not been touched and in theory remains as before the merger of
the three Ministries responsible for rural development.
2.10      Administratively the country is divided into 8 provinces,
subdivided into 33 "prefectures" which in turn are divided Into
"sous-prefectures" and finally districts that form the basic administrative
unit in the country. A General Directorate for Production, with technical



-5-
departments for Agriculture. Fisheries, Livestock, etc. is responsible for
rural development at the provincial level. At the prefecture level there
is a Secretary General for rural development reporting primarily to the
"prefect" and responsible for coordinating the activities of technical
directorates for Agriculture, Livestock, Research, Forestry, Conditioning,
Rural Works etc. These technical directorates depend administratively on
the prefecture but report on technical matters to the provincial
directorates. At the sous-prefecture level, are units called sectors made
up mainly of staff of the former Ministries of Agriculture and EAPA, but
with responsifilities that are imprecise. At the district level, there is
one agent of the Ministry of Agriculture plus agents of the former FAPAs.
With the mezger of all the ministries responsible for rural development,
all the agents have reverted to the Ministry of Rural Development but their
duties ha'e not yet been redefined. The new Mlinistry is seeking to define
better tbh field level structure and has asked IDA to finance, through a
PPF advan:e, a study that would propose a work program for the rural sector
for each of the seven provinces of the country over the next ten years and
estimate the manpower and financial needs to carry out such a program. To
ensure thlat the work program is efficiently carried out, the study, which
began li October 1985, would propose an organizational structure for MDR to
cover field level operations as well as to create a fully functional
headquarters with competent services, skilled staff and coordinated
services and the study would propose ways of privatizing as many
agricultural services as possible. Another output from the study would be
a recommendation on ways to integrate externally funded projects into the
administrative and organizational structure of HDR as is being done in the
proposed project.
2.11      Agricultural Research.  Except for recent research efforts
undertaken in externally financed projects such as the ongoing Rice
Development Project, agricultural research has been completely neglected in
Guinea since independence. Guinea's main research stations, except for
those under the Rice Development Agency, ONADER, which was set up under the
Rice Development Project (para 2.19), have been short of equipment and
operating funds and all the stations have insufficient trained staff.
Besides, agricultural research work in Guinea is not well coordinated since
some of the stations are under the Ministry of National Education while
others are under the MDR, without any mechanism for coordinating actions
between the two Ministries.
2.12      The main research effort up to now has been devoted to rice and
the principal stations that have been involved are the three stations
created or taken over by ONADER, under the ongoing Rice Development project
(Baro, Kamalo and Koba). In these stations, work is being done on
irrigated. rainfed, floating and mangrove rice. Through the project,
contacts have been established with international research centres such as
WARDA, IITA and other centres, thus opening up the country to international
agronomic research. Apart from the ONADFR stations, the main research
centres include the Institut Valery Giscard d'Estaing at Farana, the Yatiya
Rice Centre, the agronomic Institute at Bordo near Kankan, the Foulaya



-6-
Institute, and the Sanfonia college near Conakry. However the lack of
equipment, infrastructure, operating funds and more importantly trained
staff, as well as a well-defined program have led to only piecemeal
research work in these centres.   A program to definve research and
financial needs at the national level is clearly needed, and the Bank will
help in this through the upcoming agricultural services project.
2.13      Agricultural Extension. Responsibility for extension activities
before April 1984 was in theory shared by Ministry of Agriculture field
level staff and the FAPAs. In practice however there was no effective
extension provided to smallholders, except in the case of rural development
projects such as the IDA-assisted Rice Development Project. The main
reason was Government's emphasis on collective farms and neglect of
smallholders, but other important reasons were the lack of resources for
the Ministry of Agriculture, absence of research results that could be
easily extended, and the inability of the FAPAs to perform even their
primary role as production units and hence their neglect of the extension
role assigned to them. With the creation of a single Ministry for
Rural Development in December 1984, responsibility for extension rests with
this Ministry. However, field level structures remain as before,
agricultural agents have no training or experience in extension. and they
have no operating means with which to do extension work. The upcoming
study on national agricultural services (para 2.10) would help improve the
situation.
D.  The Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI)
2.14      Objectives and Design. The Rice Development Project was designed
as a five year first phase project aimed at: (i) improving sectoral
planning, studying agricultural prices and incentives, and restarting
agricultural research at the national level; and (ii) preparing a pilot
rice development project called Gueckedou Rice Operation, ORG, in a part of
Gueckedou region in Guinea's high potential forest zone.
2.15      Project Description.  The project had a National Component that
consisted of; (a) the establishment of a specialized Rice Development
Agency - Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la Riziculture
"(ONADER)" - within the Ministry of Agriculture for planning and.
coordinating rice development and for acting as executing agency for the
project; (b) a study of rural prices and incentives; and (c) applied rice
research at three stations: Kamalo, near Gueckedou in the forest region,
Baro in Upper Guinea, and Koba in Maritime Guinea, each representative of
one of the three main rice growing ecological zones in Guinea; and a pilot
rice development project, ORG in the Gueckedou Region for improvement of
swampland and upland rice productivity on some 2,700 family farms.
2.16      The ORG, unlike the Bank's first venture in Guinea's rural
sector, the enclave Daboya Pineapple Project (para 2.23), set out to make
inroads on development of what was then and still is regarded by the Bank



- 7 -
as Guinea's key resource in the rural sector, smallbolder agriculture. As
such project design was a novelty for Guinea, whose main emphasis was on
collective agriculture, and met some opposition during appraisal and early
supervision. Collectives or state farms were substituted by a smallholder
orientation; manual labor was favored over mechanization; and the technical
package promoted low cost yield improvements using simple technology
(improved seed, fertilizer, simple water control, and simple crop husbandry
improvements) and was based on proven experience in similar ecological
areas. The key concept was for development of technically and economically
viable methods for improving productivity which could, if successful, be
readily applied to a larger number of farmers. This approach also involved
establishment of the usual range of support services in the pilot project
area (management, research, extension, seed multiplication, feeder roads,
extension, training, credit, monitoring and evaluation) many of which were
themselves novelties in terms of practical implementation for Guinea.
2.17      Experience with the Rice Devel.2pn!ento tject.  Project
implementation started in 1980 and despite particularly difficult initial
years the ORG component especially, has been able to achieve a reasonable
part of the objectives set at appraisal. The economic rate of return (ERR)
for the pilot phase has been reestimated at lIZ compared to i2.8Z at
appraisal. The slightly lower ERR is due mainly to lower real prices for
rice. The table and graph below give a summary of key project
achievements.
Key Project Indicators (ORG)
Appraisal          Estimated       Estimated as
Target (PY5)     Actual (1984)       Z of Target
Participating Farmers
Upland                          2,700            3,011                112
Swamp                           1,400            1,112                 79
Areas Developed
Upland                          4,050            3,630a/               90
Swampland                         700             580-                 83
Yields (tons/ha)
Upland                          1.25             1. 3-'               104
Swampland                       2.6              2.2b/                 85
Rural Roads (Cumulative km)
Roads rehabilitated               63             202.5                321
Roads maintained                   -             136.5                  -
a/ of which about 120 ha is double-cropped.
b/ These are estimates made in the third year of project field level
implementation (1983).



-8-
FARMER PARTICIPATION ORG
3.2                  ,000 FARM FAcAUES
3 
2.06
2.65
2.4-
2.2-
2-
i.2 - 
0.8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~; 
0.6 
oft    1081       oft       1 63       1O
20 APPPAMSA TAR                . ACTUAL
2.18      In reading the above table it should be noted that field level
activities did not start until 1981. the second project year, and hence
1984 which should be PY5 would in reality refer to the fourth year of field
level implementation. Targets for 1985 season, the fifth year of project
implementation, exceed the appraisal estimates for PY5 in terms of areas
developed.  Particularly impressive in the ORG component has been the level
of farmer acceptance and enthusiasm with the project's technical package
and their willingness to construct, in their swamplands, simple water
control systems with their own family or hired labor. At appraisal, only
half of the swampland improvements had been envisaged this way, with
project machinery being used for the other half but in practice almost all
swamplands are developed using labor intensive methods. Further, double
cropping of swamplands, not expected at appraisal, is already being done on
at least 20Z of the bottom lands.
2.19      With respect to the other project components, the consultants'
study on rural prices and incentives was completed on schedule and has
served as a key element in subsequent agricultural policy discussions with
Government and an important data base for the recent Agricultural Sector
Review Report (Report No. GUI-4672 IBRD). Agricultural research in the
project represents the only ongoing and active research activities in the
country and has provided satisfactory results at Gueckedou even though
results at the other two stations, Koba and Baro, have not yielded readily
applicable



- 9 -
technical packages. A combination of inappropriate objectives (inadequate
orientation of most trials to farmer needs), logistical difficulties and
eco-climatic setbacks (floods, droughts) have retarded progress towards the
development of sure technical packages for these two regions. ONADER
itself as an institution has only partially fulfilled its objectives.
Management inexperience and inefficiencies, a dearth of trained national
staff, and high technical assistance staff turnover have limited ONADER's
capacity to do much more than keep the project's field components going.
ONADER's role as a rice sector planning and coordinating unit has therefore
been limited, tbough it has been instrumental in opening up contacts witb a
variety of international agricultural research agencies and, following the
government change, has started getting involved in Ministry activities
especially in socio-economic studies, strategy development and investment
review.
2.20      One of the key risks envisaged at appraisal concerned Government
interference in produce marketing. In reality, this did not pose a problem
and generally farmers were able to sell on the parallel market. Project
Management on the other hand, still performs poorly in a number of areas,
including forward planning, accounting, financial management and financial
control despite the fact that they have acquired some experience through
the project.
2.21      A detailed review of agricultural credit activities in ORG has
also revealed a number of shortcomings in credit procedures and recording,
with credit accounting being one of the problem areas of the project.
Credit recording was particularly poor for the 1983/84 season and out of
some 300 tons of fertilizer distributed, about 80 tons had not been
recorded by the Credit Department at the time of appraisal in October 1984.
An external audit proposed by the appraisal mission was completed in July
1985 and the audit report estimates that about half the inputs given out
had been badly recorded and repayments for them may be difficult. These
problems have been due, in large part to the shortage of well-trained and
experienced staff, and the absence of financial and internal control
procedures. The remoteness of the project area (700 km from Conakry) has
also meant that the project has had to provide all its support services,
with the consequent overburdening cf an inexperienced management and staff.
There were continual difficulties for the Guinean administration in
accepting and working with technical assistance staff, with resultant high
technical assistance turnover and recruitment difficulties and hence the
technical assistance staff have had little impact in improving management
procedures.
2.22      These project difficulties have however been of the sort that can
be expected for a start-up program in a country such as Guinea that had
been closed to the outside world for so long. Despite these difficulties,
the project has been instrumental in providing some much needed training
and experience for local staff, though there is still much to be done in
this area. The proposed project would build on this modest start and its



- 10 -
design includes measures to improve management performance, especially in
financial and credit administratior (para 4.12). This project would now
concentrate on developing the Regional Agricultural Service as a whole to
form a working model for other regions. The ONADER and research components
are to be continued in the appraised Agricultural Services Project
(para 2.03).
2.23      Agricultural Sector Lending.  Apart from the Rice Development
Project (FY80), that is described in paras 2.14 to 2.22 above the Bank
Group has financed two other projects in Guinea's rural sector. The Daboya
Pineapple Project (FY76). involving the development of an industrial estate
with some outgrowers, was completed to satisfactory technical standards but
since its completion has experienced foreign exchange financing, input
supply and output marketing problems. Attempts to involve a foreign
partner in the project have not been successful because of past Government
macro economic policies, but with the reforms planned by the new Government
it would be possible to privatize the project entity to increase production
and exports from the project. A Livestock Development Project (FY81)
focussed on cattle health through upgraded veterinary services. The
project was cancelled in September 1983 because of Government failure to
dismantle the state livestock marketing agency as had been agreed under the
credit. The new Government has however dissolved the agency and asked IDA
to prepare a new livestock project aimed at rehabilitating the sector as a
whole. This new project was appraised in April 1985. The Bank Group has
also appraised the above-mentioned Agricultural Services Project to upgrade
planning, investment review and data collection in the Ministry of
Agricultural Development and is undertaking a study on national
agricultural services to improve extension and related services under a PPF
(para 2.10). This could result in a second Agricultural Services Project.
2.24      Sector Strategy.   Government policy under the Sekou Toure regime
was generally to favor collective farming, and any departures from this
were not easily accepted by the Government. Since 1980 the Bank has sought
to change this approach by encouraging Government to concentrate on
smallholders through the Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI). The
strategy worked well and even the old Government began to accept this
approach as a viable alternative to collective agriculture. Through the
same project the Bank was able to undertake a rural incentives study that
laid the groundwork for a comprehensive agricultural sector review done in
1983 (para 2.19).  With the new Government's determination and commitment
to improve the performance of the Guinean economy, and its emphasis on
smallholders, this approach would be applied to the whole sector. In
addition to the focus on smallholders, the Bank's strategy now recognizes
the opportunity to introduce wide ranging policy and organizational reforms



- 11 -
and this is being done through the proposed project as well as the SAC. The
main objectives of the Bank's rural sector strategy then would be to:
(i) seek to increase productivity of smallholders in both food and
export crop production, with an early focus on rice, coffee and
other rainfed crops as well as fruit crops;
(ii) push for satisfactory incentives for farmers, while seeking
structural charnges in the long run;
(iii) enhance the Government's capabilities for policy
formulation, investment planning and project identification and
preparation;
(iv) improve overall organization of rural development services
including manpower and structural planning of the Ministry of
Rural Development and to help create effective and efficient
field level support services (extension, research, data
collection, monitoring and evaluation, credit, input supply
etc.).
2.25      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project, the
Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project started off as a pilot activity
to see what could be done in developing smallholder agriculture. It
demonstrated that this could be done. Both the Government and IDA see it
as a regional organizational model for development in other regions,
especially with the proposed merger of the pilot project unit, ORG
(Operation Riz Gueckedou) and the existing regional Service of Rural
Development in the project area (para 5.01). This integration of ORG and
the regional service would reinforce the existing administrative service
and avoid parallel structures in development, a key aspect of IDA's
development strategy that it hopes to realize through the above-mentioned
study on national services for the rural sector. In this second phase
Gueckedou project, apart from continued emphasis on smallholders, the
promotion of low-cost replicable techniques, emphasis on adaptive research
and essential services such as extension, credit, and seed multiplication
and treatment, are key ingredients of our strategy. The pioneering role
that IDA has played in developing smallholder agriculture in Guinea as well
as the increasingly productive dialogue on rural sector organization, have
created a sound basis for IDA support for the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  The Project Area
3.01      Location.  The proposed project would be in the forest region of
southeastern Guinea. The project would cover the entire administrative
region (prefecture) of Gueckedou, including the zone covered by the pilot
component of the rice development project, and a small part of southern
Kissidougou region, with similar ecological conditions, both in Farana



- 12 -
province. It is delimited to the west by the river Meli forming the border
with Sierra Leone, to the south by the Makona river which forms the border
with Liberia, to the East by meridian 9g55', and to the north by parallel
8°58'.
3.02      Climate and Relief.  The climate of the area is characterised by
a nine month wet season from March to November with an average annual
rainfoll of 2,200 mm. The rains are normally well distributed and hence
reduce the risks for rainfed cultivation of rice and other crops. The
climatic conditions are very favorable for the cultivation of perennial
crops such as coffee, cocoa, oil palm and other fruit crops as well as
annual crops.   Relief consists of numerous rocky outcrops with some high
plateaus and frequent rolling hills towards the east and southeast and an
average altitude between 600 m to 700 m. One major river system, the Ouaou
drains the project area but has numerous small streams for tributaries and
these together with the streams flowing towards the Makona and the Meli, as
well as the relief, create several swamplands ("bas fonds") in the project
area ranging in size from less than a hectare to several hectares.
3.03      Vegetation and soils.  The project area is part of the forest
region of Guinea but the natural forests, which once covered the region,
are largely denuded under the influence of shifting cultivation and
population increases, and the vegetation now varies from the savanna to
open woodland, the latter becoming dense forest only towards the south.
Soil characteristics vary from the north to the south but in general the
uplands have loamy-clay to clay on alluvial sites and sandy-clay-loams on
colluvial sites suitable for rice production. They generally have high
organic matter content (3-8Z), are generally acid (ph 4.7 to 5.2) and are
poor in P and K. The swamps normally have hydromorphic soils with high
ground water and high acidity, and are also deficient in P and K. The
soils in the northern part of the project zone offer the best potential for
rice production even though all the other zones are also suitable.
3.04      Socio-Economic characteristics.  The project area covers about
5,600 km2 and has an estimated population of about 220,000 made up of over
28,000 farm families. Family size varies between six to eight persons with
three to four able-bodied persons. Work organization within the family is
fairly flexible with both men and women doing a lot of work together. -
There are 12 "sous-prefectures" divided into 102 districts (88 in Gueckedou
and 14 in Kissidougou) that would be covered by the project, and the area
is mainly rural. Gueckedou town, the project centre, is some 700 km from
Conakry to which it is linked by tarmac road and a radio, installed for the
project during the pilot phase.                                                      -
3.05      The main crop grown in the area is rice of which the average farm
family may grow between 1.5 ha and 2 ha, about 1 to 1.5 ha in upland rice
and 0.5 ha in swamp rice. Coffee plantations also exist in the zone and
most families do have some coffee. The plantations have however been
neglected for several years because of the pricing and forced marketing
policy of the former regime. Groundnuts and cassava are normally grown in



- 13 -
rotation with upland rice but areas involved are fairly small. Maize and
vegetables are usually grown in the swamps but also in small quantities.
Picking of wild growing crops is an important economic activity in the
project zone. Naturally growing palm trees, for example, provide a good
source of income for the population through palm fruit, kernels and oil.
Livestock activity is limited especially in the central to southern part of
the project zone which is trypano endemic. In this area only small
ruminants and poultry exist and in the northern part (Southern Kissidougou)
where there are cattle they are mainly transhumant and very little animal
traction is practised. The population in the project area are generally
poor and their annual incomes average about 4,600 Sylis (US$190) per capita
at official pre-devaluation market prices, compared to a national per
capita average in 1983 of US$300 (7,200 Sylis). About 85% of their incomes
come in the form of subsistence consumption.
3.06      Land Tenure.  Land availability is generally not a problem in the
project zone especially for upland rice cultivation. However because of
the practice of shifting cultivation and population pressure the fallow
period is becoming shorter. Though the state is the sole land ow-ner in
Guinea, in practice land belongs to a village and swamplands are owned by
individual families and is so recognized by all the population. Upland
rice cultivation is normally done in a group by the entire village and
except for land adjacent to cultivated swamps, land distribution is done by
village elders.
B.   Project Objectives
3.07      The project is a continuation of the pilot Gueckedou Rice
Operation (ORG) component of the IDA and of AfDF financed Rice Development
Project, (Cr. 952-GUI) and will build on the experience of this first
phase. The project would therefore aim at:
(i) increasing the productivity of smallholders in rice
production by expanding on the scope and area of the first
phase project; and introducing new technical packages for
coffee, groundnut and cassava production in the expanded
area;
(ii) reactivating the Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of
Agriculture by completely absorbing their activities and
those of the project into a single regional agricultural
development service;
(iii) improving available technical packages in the forest region
through applied research; and
(iv) helping to develop farmer organizations.



- 14 -
C.   Project Description
3.08      The proposed project would finance a five year rural development
program including the following main components:
ti)  project management and administration including a Liaison
Office in Conakry;
(ii) Extension, services for about 16,000 farm families involved
in cultivation of irrigated and upland rice as well as other
rainfed and perennial crops including an effort to reach
women with the extension message, as well as training for
Guinean staff and agricultural research;
(iii) seed processing and distribution to farmers from seed
produced on a mechanized seed multiplication farm and
through contract seed farmers;
(iv) land development of some 2,000 ha of swamp through low cost
irrigation works and upgrading of 240km of primary,
secondary and tertiary roads and maintenance of these as
well as 260km of existing roads, and a garage to repair
and maintain project equipment;
Cv)  input supply and agricultural credit for project farmers;
and
(vi)  provision of technical assistance and consultant services as
well as training facilities and fellowship program for the
project staff.
D.    Detailed Features
1. Management and Administration
3.09      A project management and administration team would be responsible
for running the agricultural service in the Gueckedou region, following the
merger of ORG and the existing prefectoral directorate (para 5.01). Apart
from the General Manager, the team would include an expatriate Technical
Director, a financial and administration department responsible for project
accounting and personnel management, the project credit unit, the supply
department - responsible for purchases and procurement, and the monitoring
and evaluation services of the project. The management team's role, aside
from project management, would be to provide the support services
(procurement, fuel supply etc.) needed for the smooth running of the
project. It will be provided with vehicles and the necessary equipment and
funds for meeting its operating expenses and will be responsible for the
project construction program, as well as input supply and credit
administration.



- 15 -
3.10      Liaison Office.  Given that the project centre, Gueckedou is some
700okm away from Conakry, the project would finance a small liaison office
in Conakry to coordinate with th2 central Ministries especially, rural
development, and follow-up on procurement. The office will be headed by a
Guinean with training and experience in Administration and Finance and he
will be assisted by a clerk, a secretary, a driver and a storekeeper.
2. Extension, Training and Research
3.11      Extension Service.  The Extension service of the region would be
structured on the basis that the Training and Visit System (T & V) would be
used. This represents a change from the Phase I approach which has some
elements of the T & V, but which mainly because of training constraints
lacked the systematic training of staff and farmers. The service will be
augmented by the inclusion of selected staff from the existing regional
structure and excess staff from the service will have to be redeployed by
Government, which will bring to negotiations an acceptable plan for
redeploying them. The project would finance an expatriate extension
specialist for three years, plus vehicles, equipment, and operating costs
necessary for running an effective extension service in the region.
Details on organization of the service are in Chapter V.
3.12      Women's Activities.  No special programs for women exist.
However, it is recognized that there is a need to train and develop women
in farming practices, as well as in other activities such as diet, home
maintenance, which are generally covered under the title of home economics.
The project will therefore finance 2 women extension workers for each zone
and they will receive agricultural and home economics training, and will
work within the extension system using the T & V system of contacting and
training women farmers.
3.13      Training.  In order to fulfill the training needs of the project,
an experienced expatriate Senior Training Officer would be employed for a
period of 3 years. He would be required to assess training needs, organize
and coardinate all training in relation to project related training, and
would train trainers in the project. He would have a local deputy who would
become the Regional Training Officer when the expatriate completes his
tour. The project would finance the operation of a training centre
constructed during the pilot phase by providing the centre with training
materials and equipment and visiting consultants (Annex 3-1). Details on
organization of the training component are in Chapter V.
3.14      Research.  Applied research as started for rice in the pilot
phase would continue at Gueckedou, with diversification of efforts into
other food crops: groundnuts, cassava and maize. The project will finance
the operating costs of the research unit established in the pilot phase.
The function of this unit will be to identify improved varietal, fertilizer
and cultural improvement packages that are appropriate and applicable to



- 16 -
the existing forest zone farming systems. The same unit would also ensure
on farm testing of its research results before recommending their diffusion
to farmers. The main lines of research to be financed by the project would
be in:
-    upland rice varieties superior or equal to LAC 23, the rice
variety currently extended in the project area;
-    high yielding swamp rice varieties with greater degrees of
resistance to rice blast, ("Piricularia"), and iron
toxicity;
-    high yielding short cycle swamp rice varieties;
-    rice varieties suitable for the large innundated bottomland
areas of the project extension area but where there are no
possibilities of controlled irrigation;
-    virus tolerant cassavas with acceptable storage and cooking
properties;
-    improved groundnut and maize varieties for the second year
upland and dry season swamp situations; and
-    fertilizer trials to determine the best formulae and dosage.
Coordination with WARDA, already well established, will be fostered and
links with IRAT, IITA and other projects with research components, further
developed or newly forged. The unit will establish close links with any
new national research effort and coordinate its programs with any such
research structure.
3. Seed Production and Treatment
3.15      The project will expand seed production in order to meet existing
demand under Phase I, and that of Phase II. However, these demands will be
met largely from an increase in farmers' production of improved seed under
supervision of the project and using the equivalent of first and second
generation certified seed. The project will finance equipment, spare
parts, and operating costs of the seed production unit established under
Phase I which will continue to produce improved upland rice seed (LAC 23)
at the seed farm whose size will gradually be reduced from 160 ha to 90 ha
and through an outgrowers scheme (approximately 1,100 ha at year 5).
Improved swamp rice seed (IR5) would also be produced at the project's farm
(4 ha) and by outgrowers (10 ha) under the outgrowers scheme. Farmers will
purchase seed produced by the project seed farm and outgrowers and treated
by the seed processing plant through seasonal credit (para 3.17).
Groundnut seed of a chosen improved variety would be tested by the research
unit and if found acceptable produced on some 3 ha of the project's farm
and also by outgrower farmers. The central rice seed farm has the staff
and land to take on additional multiplication responsibilities for the



- 17 -
groundnuts, once improved varieties have been identified. Such
diversification would be desirable for the seed farm rotation.
Additionally the seed farm unit would help farmers to produce coffee
seedlings. The project's seed processing unit at Gueckedou would carry out
drying, cleaning, grading,treatment, and storage to standards already
established under Phase I. A quality control laboratory exists for
monitoring seed quality. The project vould finance inputs, equipment,
spare parts and staff for the operation of the seed farm as well as the
seed treatment plant. while the outgrovers scheme will be run by the
farmers through the credit scheme.
4. Land Development. Rural Roads and Garage
3,16      The Rural Works Department of ORG would continue to vork as the
same department in the nev Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Agriculture
and vwuld be responsible for swamp development based on the techniques
developed during the pilot phase (para 6.03). The department will do the
studies, lay out the ctnals and supervise the construction of bunds and
canals and levelliug by the farmers. The department will also continue its
road constructionlrehabilitation and maintenance program. Road works would
be carried out under force account with participation of villagers In basic
maintenamce, bush clearing and bridge construction. It is proposed to
construct/rehabilitate about 240 km of feeder roads and to maintain about
500 km. The road network included in the project would serve the villages
where there is a fair concentration of bas-fonds sufficiently close to
villages to enable their development. The project would fi-nace an
expatriate rural engineer to run the department, the vehicles, equipment,
and spare parts as well as the operating costs of the department. The
project also includes a garage set up under ORG responsible for maintaining
project equipment and vehicles. The project would finance an expatriate
mechanic for five years, and the equipment and operating costs necessary
for runLing the garage.
5. Input Supply and Agricultural Credit
3.17      Provision of agricultural credit in Guinea has been the
responsibility of the National Bank for Agricultural Development, BNDA,
which due to lack of field offices and staff has been non-operational in
the field. Under the pilot project, ORG has been responsible for input
supply and credit management, with an agent seconded to it by BNDA
responsible for credit administration. In the absence of a properly
functioning agricultural credit and input distribution system for the
country as a whole, the project would continue to be responsible for input
distribution and would finance short term credit to farmers in the project
area to meet their annual seed and fertilizer needs and for the purchase of
small implements. Input prices are expected to rise with the monetary
adjustment and fertilizer prices especially would increase from the present
level of 18 sylis per kg to over 100 sylis per kg to reflect the new
exchange rate. implement prices will also rise in the same proportion and
seed prices will increase but not by as much. The credit program for
inputs should make it possible for farmers to acquire the inputs despite



- 18 -
the increased prices. Medium term credit for land development and some
agricultural equipment would also be financed by the project. Short term
credit would be for a one year period and medium term credit for equipment
will be for three years with a 25% down-payment. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that (a) input prices to farmers would reflect their real
purchase and distribution costs in the case of imported inputs and to
reflect production costs in the case of seeds and seedlings; (b) both short
and medium term credit would attract an interest rate of 10% or the rate
fixed by Government for such credit in the monetary reform program. The
credit unit would also be required to adjust input prices each year to
account for inflation and distribution costs. Details on credit
organization and administration are in Chapter V and Annex 3-2. The annex
also includes details on credit needs.
3.18      Farmer Organization and Credit. The project would seek to
encourage farmer associations with a view to facilitating credit
administration and more importantly to make farmers more responsible for
their own affairs, especially in the area of produce marketing. Farmer
groups would therefore be formed in the project zones and would ba
encouraged to come together to form a union per zone. A rural organization
consultant visited the project area in early July 1985 to prepare proposals
for organizing farmers, and has recommended ways that farmers could be
orgA-ized and what help the project could give them.
6.  Technical Assistance, Consultants and Fellowship Program.
3.19      Technical Assistance.  The ORG ;.zoject currently has four
technical assistance positions, Extension Specialist. Workshop Manager,
Rural Engineer and Financial Controller. The proposed project would
maintain these four positions and would finance, in addition, the posts of
a Technical Director, to coordinate and guide technical activities
especially with the takeover of all regional rural development activities,
and a trainer, for the project traidlng component. All the positions would
be filled from the beginning of the project for a total of 25 man-years.
To ensure that the TA staff undertake an active training of Guinean cadres,
their terms of reference place strong emphasis on this and include the
provision that they participate in all training programs organized by the
Training Department and, that the technical experts reinforce the work of
the subject-matter specialists in the Training and Visit system of
extension. Expatriate specialists would be hired through a contract with a
consulting firm or group of firms in order to provide administrative
support, back-up technical services to assist field staff, and staff
flexibility. Government has already started the process of selecting a
firm and the signing of a satisfactory contract for the project's technical
assistance positions would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.20      Provision has been made in the project for 21 man-months of
consultant time covering specialist activitie- and studies not expected to
be covered under the technical assistance contract (Annex 3-3). These
activities would include; support for monitoring and evaluation activities,



- 19 -
visits by tree crops specialists for coffee and oil palm and other
specialist consultants (soils specialist, hydrologist) and a possible
identification for a coffee and oil palm rehabilitation and plantation
projects. There is also a provision of 10 man-months for preparing a
possible follow-up project and an extra 12 man-months for a credit study
(para 5.08). In addition the African Development Fund proposes an extra 30
man-months of consultant time for various studies to prepare projects in
the forest zone. Assurances were obtained at negotiations tbat all
consultant and Technical Assistance Staff selection and appointment would
be made through procedures acceptable to IDA and their terms of reference
agreed on with IDA.
3.21      Training of Guinean cadres would be through on the job training
(para 5.04), fellowships for technlical training, and training coarses
organized by the trainer at the project training centre. The fellowship
program was used during the first phase project and has proved invaluable
in improving the technical knowhow of project personnel. This will be
continued during the project and would include both short term and medium
term courses. An average of I to 2 medium term courses will be provided
per year lasting 9 months to 2 years and about 10 to 15 short term courses
and visits would be organized each year (Annex 3-4).
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs net of all identifiable taxes at
post-devaluation prices and including US$2.4 million of recurrent costs
associated with the pilot phase (para 4.02), are estimated at 6.3 billion
Sylis (US$25.2 million) of which about 4.8 billion Sylis (US$19.1 million)
are in foreign exchange.  Total project cost is summarized below, with a
yearly breakdown in Annex 4-1.



Summary of Project Costs
---   Sylis million  ---       ---  US$ million  ----
Foreign as
Local   Foreign      Total    Local   Foreign  Total   Z of Total    % Base Cost
Management and Administration              217.0      475.0      692.0     0.9       1.9      2.8          70           15.7
Extension, Research and Training           227.5      280.3     507.8      0.9       1.1      2.0          55           11,4
Seed Production Unit                       133.0      480.6     613.6      0.6       1.9      2.5          78           13.7
Land Development, Roads and
Workshop                                  213.1      439.6      652.7     0.8       1.8      2.6          67           14.6
Agricultural Inputs                        150.6      818.7      969.3     0.6       3.3      3.9          84           21.7
Technical Assistance                         -        668.7      668.7      -        2.7      2.7         100           14.9
Fellowships and Consultancy                  -        173.7      173.7      -        0.7      0.7         100            3.8
Studies and Audit                            -        175.0      175.0      -        0.7      0.7         100            4.2
Total Base Cost                            941.2   3,511.6   4,452.8       3.8      14.1    17.9           78          100.0
Physical Contingencies                      62.7      300.0      362.7     0.2       1.2      1.4          81
Price Contingencies                        531.9      950.0   1,481.9      2.1       3.8      5.9          63
Total                                    1,535.8   4,761.6   6,297.4       6.1      19.1    25.2           75
um"mwin    umm.m                  mu.      mn u5n.               mu
Note:  The pilot phase recurrent costs are Included in the following categories:
Management and Administration (122 of total); Extension. Research and Training (212);
Seed Production Unit (212); Rural Works and Equipment Maintenance (12X);
Physical contingencies (102); and price contingencies (112).



- 21 -
4.02      Costs are based on October 1984 prices adjusted for inflation to
July 1985, the date of negotiations. They include 591.0 million Sylis
(US$2.4 million) of recurrent costs associated with maintaining activities
and production under the pilot component. Government contribution to the
ORG component of the Rice Development Project has averaged about US$1.35
million (32 million Sylis at the then exchange rate) per year in local
costs and .Zuel. Its contribution under the proposed project would average
about US$0.86 million per year (para 4.05). Under Guinean conditions where
practically all the other Government services do not receive any operating
funds, this represents a high level of Government commitment. Thus
financing of the estimated recurrent costs (US$0.5 million per year) should
normally not pose a problem. The foreign exchange portion of these
recurrent costs (US$1.3 million) may however have to be financed from
foreign sources since there is a shortage of foreign exchange in the
country. To enable Government to make sufficient budgetary allocations for
these recurrent costs, and since these costs represent a follow-up on a
pilot operation, they have been included in total project costs for the
purpose of shoving financting needs. A yearly breakdown of incremental
costs associated with the second phase are shown in Annex 4-2, and the
recurrent costs in Annex 4-3. In the economic analysis (Chapter VII),
these recurrent costs have been excluded.
4.03      The cost estimates also include physical contingencies estimated
at 10% for all non-personnel costs and price contingencies on all foreign
costs have been compounded yearly at the rate of 7.5% for 1986, and 82 for
1987-1990. Two indices have been used for local price increases, one for
personnel calculated at 26% for 1986. and 10Z thereafter and the other for
local goods and services of 202 for 1986 and 12% thereafter. All costs
have been estimated using an exchange rate of 250 Sylis = US$1.
B.   Financing
4.04      Project financing includes the recurrent costs under the first
pilot project (US$2.4 million) in addition to the incremental costs of the
second phase project (para 4.02 and Annexes 4-2 and 4-3). Financing would
be parallel for all categories for the three financial institutions
participating in the project. Financing of total costs would be shared in
the following amounts and proportions by expense category.



- 22 -
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Benefi-
IDA   AfDF   IFAD   GOG   ciaries  Total a/
Vehicles and Equipment
and spare parts                3.0    3.0     -      -       -       6.0
Construction                     -     1.1     -      -       -       1.1
Fuel and Lubricants              -     1.8     -     0.7      -       2.5
Agricultural Inputs             0.3     -     3.5    0.1      2.8     6.7
Resident Technical Assistance   3.3     -      -      -       -       3.3
Fellowships, Consultants
Audit and Studies               -     0.3    1.5     -        -      1.8
Support for Rural Development    -     0.3     -      -       -       0.3
Local Salaries and
Other Operating Costs           -      -      -     3.5       -      3.5
Total                          6.6    6.5    5.0    4.3      2.8    25.2
Percent                       26     26     20      17      11     100
a/ Includes contingencies.
4.05     The Association, AfDF and IFAD would finance the project's
foreign exchange costs, with the exception of the foreign exchange portion
of recurrent input costs from the fourth year of the project (US$1.7
million equivalent), which would be financed by the project beneficiaries.
The IDA Credit of US$6.6 million equivalent would finance the foreign costs
of half of the vehicles, equipment and spare parts, first year agricultural
inputs, and the total foreign costs of the resident technical assistance.
The AfDF credit of US$6.5 million equivalent, like the IFAD credit on terms
similar to the Association's Credit, would finance in parallel the foreign
costs of half of the vehicles, equipment and spare parts, the total costs
of building constructions, and foreign costs of fuel and lubricants. In
addition, AfDF has Included funds for financing in parallel preparation
studies in the forest zone, support for certain rural development
activities (livestock, wells, medical supplies) and the equivalent of
US$0.7 million in local costs. IFAD would finance in parallel the costs of
fellowships, consultant studies and audit and the remaining foreign costs
of agricultural inputs. The remainder of local costs, US$5.4 million
equivalent (1.4 billion Sylis) would be met by Government and project
beneficiaries. The conclusion of satisfactory financing agreements between
the Government and AfDF and IFAD would be a condition of IDA Credit
effectiveness.



- 23 -
Terms of External Credits
Amount       Period    Years Grace      Service
(US$ million)    (years)                    Charges
IDA              6.6           50          10         Standard IDA
AfDF             6.5           50          10         0.75
IfAD             5.0           50          10          1.5
C. Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds
4.06      During the first phase, the project had a centralized financing
system administered through the Rice Development Agency, ONADER in Conakry
with only local cost accounts being kept by ORG in Gueckedou. With the
re-orientation of the role of ONADER, which becomes essentially a planning
unit for the Ministry of Rural Development, the project entity, the
Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development (DPDRG) will be
responsible for all its financial transactions and maintain its own
accounting and financial records under the supervision of an expatriate
financiAl controller (para 4.12). DPDRG would maintain an account for
local expenditures with a commercial bank at Gueckedou and an account for
foreign expenditures with a commercial bank in Conakry (paras 4.07 and
4.08).
4.07      Most foreign expenditures would be financed by IDA and the
cof-nanciers through direct payments (Procedure III); this would keep the
foreign exchange account for the project to be held at a minimum. Some
foreign exchange held in Conakry would however be necessary for the
financing of certain items and materials purchased directly by the project
and for the direct financing of fellowships and short term consultant
visits.  To provide the flexibility to finance these items, two Special
Accounts in foreign exchange, each equivalent to US$100,000, would be
established in a commercial bank in Conakry immediately after Credit
effectiveness through a withdrawal of this amount from the IDA credit and
IFAD loans. The account would be managed by the Director General of the
project and the head of the liaison office in Conakry. IDA would replenish
its account on receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements from the
fund for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the
IDA special project revolving fund that are not acceptable to IDA,
Government would deposit the corresponding amount into the special foreign
exchange account. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



- 24 -
4.08      To meet the needs of local expenditures, Government would open a
project account for the project at the local commercial bank at Gueckedou.
Requirements in local currency would be estimated half-yearly and would
form the basis upon which the local currency account at Gueckedou will be
maintained. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that the local currency account would be replenished at least quarterly on
the basis of supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash
need forecasts made by project management in order to have sufficient funds
to meet project local expenditures for the next six months. Opening of the
project accounts as well as Government's payment of its initial deposit of
80 million sylis (US$0.3 million), equivalent to six-months needs in local
funds, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized below with figures in
parenthesis representing amounts to be financed by IDA. The figures below
include contingencies.



- 25 -
Procurement A-rasnRments
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Inter-
national                       Total
Items to be procured         ICB        shopping     Other       N/A   Costs
Vehicles and Equipment       1.6         0.5 a/       0.1         -     2.2
(0.8)      (0.3)           -         _    (1.1)
Spare Parts                   -         3.8 bl/        -                3.8
(1.9)                          (1.9)
Fuel and Lubricants           -           -           2.5         -     2.5
Other Operating Costs         -           -           0.3 c/    1.6    1.9
Construction                  -           -            1.1 c/     -      1.1
Agricultural Inputs          5.5          -            1.2        -      6.7
(0.3)        -             -         -    (0.3)
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Fellowships       -                       5.1 d/      -     5.1
(3.3)            (3.3)
Wages and Salaries            -                         -        1.9    1.9
Total Costs               7.1        4.3          10.3        3.5   25.2
(1.1)      (2.2)         (3.3)      -      (6.6)
... *,.             ...            ....z ....
a/ Furniture and equipment spread over time and difficult to regroup into
lerger packages.
b/ Spare parts to be purchased over the five years for existing as well
as new vehicles and equipment.
c/ Financing would be by AfDF procedures. The other operating costs to ba
financedd by AfDF represent support for rural development activities
(para 4.05).
d/ Employment of consultants and Technical Assistance staff would be
in accordar:e with IDA guidelines.



- 26 -
4.10      All bidding packages for IDA-financed goods over US$50,000 and
works over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation. Government policy is to exempt rural development projects
from duties and taxes and this project would benefit from this exemption.
Government confirmed this during negotiations.
4.11      Disbursements.  Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed
over a period of six years (Annex 4-4). This disbursement period is
slightly shorter than the profile chosen - West Africa Region IDA Area
Development Projects profile, but the experience under the Rice Development
Project suggests that disbursements would be faster than the profile. All
disbursement against the IDA credit would be fully documented. The IDA
credit would be disbursed against the following categories.
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Percent of Expenditure
Category   Item                         Amount          to be Financed
(v000 USS)
1.      Vehicles, Equipment
and Spare parts              2,800      100Z of foreign expen-
ditures
2.      Agricultural Inputs             300       IOOZ of total foreign
costs for first project
year
3.      Resident Technical            3,000       100% of foreign costs
Assistance
4.      Unallocated                     500
6,600
E.   Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
4.12      The DPDRG would keep separate accounts for the project,
maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting practices to reflect
the operations of the project. To ensure appropriate control over
expenditures and use of project facilities and goods, the October 1984
appraisal mission proposed that an internal management control and a basic
accounting and progress reporting system be prepared for use in the
project. An audit firm completed in July 1985 a review of the accounting,
agricultural credit and internal control procedures in place under the
pilot ORG component of the Rice Development Project. Based on the audit.
the firm has helped introduce appropriate management, credit and accounting
control systems to be used in the second phase project including an
accounting and an internal control manual.



- 27 -
An expatriate financial controller recruited under the project will
supervise accounting and administration and ensure an adequate internal
control system. All project accounts, including the separate accounts kept
by the Credit Unit, would be audited annually and auditors acceptable to
IDA will be employed to ensure the project's adherence to good financial
management. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the DPDRG would
submit a semi-annual progress report and annual financial statements which
accurately reflect the physical and financial performance of the project as
well as a financial forecast for the following year. The annual audit
report, to be submitted within six months of the end of each financial
year, would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system
and internal controls and on compliance with financial covenants.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organisation and Management
5.01      In the pilot project, ORG was created as a project unit working
separately from the regional service of agriculture in the Gueckedou
region. In practice the only extension activities in the project zone are
those done by ORG. Lack of operating funds has prevented the regional
service from providing any extension service even in the zones not covered
In the pilot phase. In support of the Government and Bank strategy of
strengthening the mainline Ministry and in view of the fact that the
proposed project would cover the entire Gueckedou region plus a small part
of Kissidougou, ORG has been merged with the existing Gueckedou Prefectoral
Directorate of Rural Development and the new service will be given
responsibility for agricultural activities in Gueckedou and two
"sous-prefectures" in southern Kissidougou. Though this is a condition of
Credit effectiveness, Government has already effected the merger and is in
the process of redeploying excess staff from the Region. In the merger
decree, Government has given the Gueckedou Prefectoral Directorate of
Rural Development full responsibility for the two "sous-prefectures" in
Kissidougou during the project period with the possibility of transferring
these two "sous-prefectures" back to Kissidougou if the prefectoral service
there becomes functional and effective during the project implementation
period. As the project's administrative and financial autonomy as well as
the director's access to the Minister of Rural Development, in the absence
of functional provincial and central directorates, will be important
factors determining the success of the project, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, the project entity, DPDRG, would be allowed complete
financial and operational autonomy tnder the Minister or his designated
representative. The study on the structure and organization of national
agricultural services being financed by IDA under a PPF advance (para 2.10)
may propose an organizational set-up different from that proposed in this
project. If that happens the project's organization will be modified to
reflect the proposals.



- 28 -
5.02      The internal organization of the new service, would be similar to
the present structure of ORG (Annex 5-1). There would be two main
departments under the project manager, who will be the prefectoral Director
of Rural Development, the Technical and the Administrative and Financial
Departments. The Technical Department would comprise Extension, Research,
Training, Rural Works, Garage and Seed Production Units, while the
Financial and Administrative Department would include Accounting, a Credit
Unit, a Supply Service and Personnel. The Monitoring and Evaluation
Service will be attached directly to project management. An acceptable
director has already been appointed to head the new Prefectoral Directorate
fulfilling one of the conditions of Credit effectiveness.
B.   Organization of Extension and Training, and Staffing
5.03      Extension.  As indicated in Chapter III, the extension service of
the region would be structured on the Training and Visit (T&V) system. The
Gueckedou region and southern Kissidougou consisting of some 102 districts
would be divided into 4 zones, which in turn would be subdivided into
sectors consisting of a number of districts. Each zone would be headed by
an Agricultural Officer who will have full responsibility for all services
in the zones including bottom land development. His deputy would be the
Zonal Extension Officer, who would have full responsibility for extension
activities in the zone. The next line of extension agents would be the
Sector Chief, of which each zone will have between 7 and 8 depending on the
number c,. districts. Extension aides would be the agents in direct contact
with the farmers, and approximately 7 extension aides would be supervised
by each Sector Chief. Extension aides would use the contact farmer
approach, with each contact farmer heading a group of some 10 to 15 farmers
with whom he will work. An extension aide would be responsible for 16
groups, and his fortnightly program of visits would cover 2 groups each
day.
5.04      Training. The two principal aspects of training are (a) training
inherent in the T&V system of extension and (b) all other project-related
training. In view of the lack of adequate training of project staff during
Phase I of the project, a training program for all staff would be
instituted (Annex 3-1). This program takes into account the fact that, in
Guinea, formal training in agriculture has been weak, that there has been
no follow-up training for staff, and with the exception of the Phase I
project staff, the absence of basic logistic support has resulted in
regional staff doing little or no work. Although Government must
eventually launch a national retraining program, its nature and timing are
yet to be formulated and will depend on the results of the national
agricultural services study (para 2.10). As such, the training program
would cover (b) above as a priority. Agricultural staff will need
refresher training in crop husbandry for those crops cultivated in the
region; land development staff will require training in surveying, soil
assessment and swamp development; research and seed production staff in the



- 29 -
specifics of their field; accounts staff in accounting principles; and
mechanics, vehicles and machine operators in their respective operations.
In all cases, on-the-job training would constitute the major training
emphasis, but would be approached in a planned manner, and would be
monitored by the expatriate Senior Project Trainer (para 3.13). Senior
level staff would receive both local and overseas training to improve their
technical and managerial capabilities (para 3.21). Expatriate staff
employed in the project will be required to assis:- in training their
deputies and others in their sections.
5.05      At the regional level, in addition to the expatriate Senior
Training Officer and his local deputy whom he will train, four regional
subject matter specialists (SMS), (one agronomist, one coffee specialist,
one crop protection specialist and one female extension specialist) would
be recruited. The Deputy Training Officer would specialize in extension
training (extension methods, communication techniques, etc.), and he would
be fully involved in training extension staff in the application of the T&V
system. Eventually, he would become the Training Officer for the region's
extension service. The four regional SMS would be trained to train. They
would themselves receive reinforcement training in their specific fields
through short term fellowships, or by consultants, the Technical Assistance
Staff, as well as research officers available at the national level and
vill be trained to train. They will maintain links with research in the
country to keep abreast of developments, and assist in training at all
levels, but would be particularly responsible for the zonal SMS in their
specific fields. There would be three zonal SMS (coffee, crop protection
and women's activities) and they would be trained by the regional SMS's.
Each Agricultural Officer (at region and zone) would be responsible for
agronomy training. Fortnightly training as provided for under the T&V
system would be carried out at all levels.
5.06      Staffing.  The current structure and staffing levels of ORG are
adequate and do reflect project needs in the two zones, which it presently
covers. The coverage of the entire Gueckedou region and southern
Kissidougou will imply an addition in staff especially for extension
agents. Since the project will also introduce the T and V system of
extension (para 3.11), staffing requirements are worked out in function of
this system. The extra staff required have been recruited, to the extent
possible, from the existing regional service of Agriculture but the excess
staff of some 100 to 150 people, in the regional service are being
redeployed.
C.        Credit Organization and Administratinn
5.07      Credit administration under the pilot project was under ORG, and
will continue to be done by the DPDRG. An in-depth review of agricultural
credit activities during the appraisal however showed that credit



- 30 -
procedures and book-keeping have been inadequate. The main problem has
involved credit recording and recovery. While for 1982 all the credit
given out by the Extension Department was recorded by the Credit
Department, reimbursement was 28% for short term credit 1/ but 100% for
medium term in that year. For 1983, the credit unit recorded only about
80% of inputs supplied by the extension unit and obtained a reimbursement
of 53% for short term credit with nothing shown for medium term repayments.
For the 1983 credit recuperation did not start until May 1984 after the
overthrow of the Sekou Toure regime since the political authorities were
insisting on reimbursement in kind, something which the farmers did not
like, and also since the authorities did not agree on the price being
charged by the project for inputs. Credit recording for 1984 was done
badly and as of the time of appraisal (October 1984), the credit department
had not been able to collate all the data on credit given out for the
season. New credit procedures have been proposed and are being installed
as part of the internal management review that were carried out by an
external audit firm in July 1985 (para 4.12).
5.08      Credit administration in the proposed project would be done by a
credit unit to be establisbed within the Finance Department of the new
Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development. Project proceeds will be
used to purchase inputs for distribution by the credit unit to the farmers.
The unit would keep separate accounts for the credit component that would
be audited annually. Project funds will be used to finance yearly
incremental input requirements with credit reimbursements being used for
the recurrent inputs. However, because of difficulties in converting the
reimbursements iato foreign exchange it is proposed that the foreign
component of the recurrent input costs would be financed externally for
years two and three. The monetary reform program being considered by
Government is expected to improve the foreign exchange situation by the end
of the third project year and hence all recurrent input COE-LS would be
financed from the credit repayments from this period. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that Government would provide the necessary foreign
exchange from PY4 for paying for recurrent input costs. During the first
three years of project implementation, all credit reimbursements will be
put in a Credit Fund and this fund will be used partly to p.-y for the local
costs of credit. The operation of the credit component will be reviewed In
the third project year and once a viable and functional agr:; ultural credit
institution has been established in the country, the balance on the credit
fund will be passed on to that institution, which will then be responsible
for credit to the project farmers. For this purpose 12 man-months of
consultant time have been included in project costs for a credit study to
make recommendations on the future of credit in the country and in the
project area.
1/   Farmer reimbursements for short-term credit was 10O% but credits
included a large sum lent out to Communal State Farms (Fermes Agro
Communales - FAC) that was not repaid.



- 31 -
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09      The monitoring and evaluation unit. established under the pilot
project phase, is just getting off the ground. Staff are still being
trained and the short term fellowship program would be used to supplement
the training of the unit staff during the first project year. The unit
would also be assisted from time to time by a visiting consultant
monitoring and evaluation specialist. The unit's activities would
concentrate on monitoring and analysis of project interventions and to
provide project management with feedback on the quality of the
interventions as well as farmer reactions to them. Particular emphasis
vould be placed on studying farming patterns, performance of reco_mended
technical packages, project impact on production and marketable surplures
as vell as other specific studies that would help Improve project
performance. Its activities should not be geared towards internal
management control as has been the case during the first phase.
E.  Recurrent Cost Coverage after Project Implementation
5.10      After the fifth project year a number of activities, which are
developmental in nature, including swamp development, seed farm production,
construction of feeder roads and technical assistance inputs are not
expected to continue. With the use of contract seed farmers being
introduced in the project, seed production is expected to be done by
farmers themselves and even though seed treatment will continue, farmers
would cover the costs of seed together with fertilifzer and other Inputs
either through a credit system or on a cash payment basis. Purely
recurrent costs. apart from inputs, would include the operation of the
extension and training systems, management and administration, maintenance
of rural roads, replacement for a reduced quantity of project equipment and
vehicles, and operating costs for these. It is estimated that this will
amount to about US$1.0 mdllion equivalent per year, including salaries of
local staff. Government contribution under the Rice Development Project
amounted to about US$1.35 million equivalent per year, (at the then
prevailing exchange rate) and would average about US$0.74 mi71ion per year
in the proposed project. The study on national agricultural services (para
2.10) would propose programs that would be based on regional agricultural
development such as proposed in this project and for which Government would
make annual budgetary allocations. Given Government commitment to the
project and recurrent costs that would not greatly exceed the allocations
that Government would make during the developmental phase, the
post-implementation financing should not pose major problems.



- 32 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMER BENEFITS
A.        Technical Packages
6.01      The focus of the project would be on swampland (2,000 ha) and
upland rice (19,200 ha) cultivation, under both shifting and sedentary
cropping.  The project would also include a smallholder coffee planting
program (1,000 ha), pilot coffee rehabilitation (460 ha), improved manioc
cultivation (2,740 ha), and some groundnut production (2,000 ha) (graph
next page). The agronomic improvements would concentrate on the use of
fertilizers, improved seed and pesticides, transplanting swamp rice and
coffee seedlings, sowing in lines and pruning existing coffee plantations.
About 4.000 farm families would also receive technical. support and credit
in improving their swamplands through manual labcr. The technical packages
for both upland and swampland production are based on experience under the
pilot project and experience in similar ecological zones in neighboring countries
especially in Northern Liberia and Eastern Sierra Leone where aimilar
activities are undertaken by farmers.
6.02      Upland Rice. The package is very simple with mnifmal departure
from, and labor increment over, the traditional method. It would consist
of the use of improved seed (LAC 23) at 60kg/ha, and -PK (20-20-20)
fertilizer 100 kg/ha, with 50 kg/ha urea as a supplement where necessary
and hand broadcasting of both seed and fertilizer with occasional line
seeding, and early seeding. Research results to date indicate that while
there are some upland rice varieties that equal LAC 23 in yields, they have
not passed the on-farm trial stage. Based on the results from the pilot
project, yields are expected to increase from about 700 kg to about 1,250
kg paddy per hectare using this upland package.
6.03      Swampland Rice. The package consists of simple land improvements
for better water control using family labor or labor hired by the family
and, except in rare instances, only local materials (earth, perhaps local
rocks for structural support in simple earth dams, sticks, mud and bamboos
for bunds and water control). A typical small bas-fond development
consists of a small earth dam, diversion canals and earth partitions for
paddy parcels. These swamp development activities are just improvements
over existing cultivation practices and will not adversely change the
quality or quantity of water flows either in the country or into
neighboring countries. IRS continues to be the major variety of improved
seed for swamp rice, although Bouak& 189 appears to be promising and would
be used where a shorter duration variety is required. There is evidence of
iron toxicity already in the swamps being cultivated in the pilot project



- 33 -
PLANTING PROGRAM RICE,1986-1990
(HEmr4REs Pa YR)
K  3 
9~~~~
2 -
1085      10os     1067      lese      1060      1000
EM  Upland Mae fS   Swamp RIc
PLANTING PROGRAM  FOR OTHER CROPS, 1986- 1990
(HWETARAS PER YR)
0.0 
p0.7-
A 0.4.-
04 3
02 .
0.1
0.1 1 
ot85      1*8      1007      lO        1080      1000
EZ  Coffee  12  Coffee  ElGroundnudS  Cassava
Rehab.       Plantation



- 34 -
and this is likely to increase with longer use of swamps. The research
unit of the project will carry out trials with the variety Suakoko 8 which
is known in Liberia and elsewhere to be tolerant of iron toxic conditions,
and which outyields other varieties in the presence of iron toxicity. If
found effective, this variety would be included in the package for
identified iron toxic swamps. Apart from improved seeds, the package would
include the use of fertilizer (150 kg/ha of NPK (20-20-20), and 75 kg/ha of
urea), spot Insecticide treatment as necessary, seedling nurseries plus
line transplanting with attention to density and spacing. The selection
and use of pesticides will be in accordance with Bank guidelines and
extension agents would train farmers in the correct use of pesticides.
Particular attention would also be paid to maintaining water levels through
regular farmer inspection and water level adjustments. In some bas-fonds
double cropping is possible, in others a second crop of maize or
vegetables. Yield increases expected would be from the average 0.75
tons/ha for traditional swamps to an average of 2.8 tons/ha at full
development (PM7). Swamp development activities would concentrate on the
small swamps of less than 5 ha with development of the larger bas-fonds
being done only after careful study by the project's Rural Works
Department. Health aspects of bas-fond development will be carefully
monitored by project staff who will coordinate all health related
activities with the staff of a rural health project (financed by the
Federal Republic of Germany in Gueckedou and Kissidougou) which includes
components that will deal with water-borne diseases.
6.04      Coffee. Existing but old and unkempt smallholder coffee parcels
(460 ha) would be improved through a program of regenerative pruning and
shade reduction and application of fertilizer. Old trees would be pruned
back to one stem to promote new top growth from which the best three new
stems would be chosen. This is a pilot activity, in the context of Guinea,
though the practice is well known and has been successfully applied in
neighboring countries. The fertilizer recommendation is tentative until
the project establishes, through soil analysis and testing, the true
fertilizer needs of the coffee growing area. Expected yield increases
would be from the average 70 kg/ha now to about 250 kg/ha. A new planting
program for coffee (1,000 ha) would be started with seedlings (1,400 per
ha) obtained from improved seed imported from Ivory Coast. Nurseries run
by individual farmers or farmer groups would be started. A fertilizer rate
of 100kg/ha of NFK (20-20-20) followed by 50 kg/ha of urea, from PY2 on,
would be applied. This recommendation is also subject to more testing of
nutrient requirements in the project area.



- 35 -
6.05      Other Crops.  Smaller scale pilot production components would be
included for the other important food crops in the area, cassava and
groundnuts, using techniques developed by international research
institutions or practiced in neighboring countries. In the case of
cassava, the package would consist simply of replacing existing traditional
varieties with improved mosaic and blight resistant varieties originating
from the IITA research station in Nigeria. Local varieties of groundnuts,
though not high yielding are well suited to the growing conditions of the
smallholder (disease and pest resistance, little or no fertilizer). The
project will initially provide phosphatic fertilizer to improve nut
formation and production on these local varieries, while establishing the
suitability and acceptability of improved varieties presently in use in
neighbouring countries. The project would multiply for distribution the
tested and proven varieties. If demand is established, the project might
also develop a small oil palm nursery either by itself, to sell seedlings
of improved varieties to farmers, or encourage farmer groups and
individuals to set up their own nurseries.
B.   Production and Yield Summary
6.06      At full development, the project would result in an incremental
annual production of over 15,700 tons of paddy, waile the pilot activities
in coffee, groundnuts and cassava, if successful, would give additional
annual production of about 600 tons, 700 tons and 8,200 tons respectively.
Evolution of project production is shown in the graphs and table below,
with details in Annex 6-1.



- 36 -
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION-RICE
TONS(tWUULATW)
15t-
14-
13-                                Tota  Rice
12 -
85   W    7   ae  Z96 so 91 e2 Q    a                 06
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION-OTHER CROPS
Is -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~U    a
5-
4.
2
Cassa.va
2                     Groundnuts        Total Coffee
0-
-1  -        .    .    ..
8S  M6  87       88 Se       91 9r 2   93  9or  06   9



- 37 -
PRO.JFC.T PRODU'CTIO~N
__. ....................  .....K. .TPOtiTIf1
Present Yield
Sittlaiti.n  1986    1987   1988     1989      1990      1996
Svp.p Rice
Area (lii) a/                   -     300      600  1,115    1,6f4      2,11S    2,400
Average YJeld (tons/ha)    0.75       1.3    1.55    1.6        1.8      1.95      2.8
Total Pr3duction (cons)         -     390      930  1,820    2.939    4.129    6.720
Without Project Production
(ton-.                       -      225     450    825    1,200    1.500    1.500
lUpland Rice
Area (ha)                       -   1.560   4,560  8.880   13,680   19.200   19,200
Average Yield (tons/he)       0.7    1.25    1.25   1.25       1.25      1.25     1.25
Total Production (tono)        -   1,950   5.700 11.100   17,100   24,000   24.000
Without Project Production
(Cont)                            1,092   3,192  6,216    9.576   13,440   15.780
Total Rice Production
(Incremental)                       1,023   2,988  5.879    9,263   13,189   15,780
Coffee Pehabilitation
Area (ha) b/                    -      20       60    140       300       460      160
Average Yield (kgfha)          70      40       60     87        95       120      200
Total Production (tons)         -     0.8      3.6   12.2      28.4      55.4       32
Wlthout Project Production
(tons)                      -      1.4     4.2    9.8       19.6     28.0         0
Coffee Plantation
Area (ha)                       -       -       50    250       600    1.000    1,000
Average Yield (kg/ha)           -       -        -      -         4      22.5    497.5
Total Production (tons) c/    -         -        -      -       2.5      22.5    497.5
Total Coffee Producclon
(Incremental tons)          -    -0.6    -0.6    2.4        11.3     49.9    529.5
.r.undnuts
Arue (ha)                       -      50      350    850    1,.400    2.000    2,000
Average Yleld (kg/ha)         250     450      460    490       520       540      600
Total Production (tons)         -    22.5   162.5    420    732.5  1.082.5    1,200
Without Project Production
(tons)                       -    12.5    87.5  212.5         350      500       500
Incremental Production(tons)  -        10       75  2,075    382.5    582.5        700
Cassava
Area (ha)                       -       -      250    810    1.620    2.740    2,740
-Average Yield (tons/ha)         3       -        6      6         6         6        6
Total Production (tons)         -       -   1.500  4,860    9.720   16,440   16.440
Without Project Productlon
(tons)                      -        -     750  2,430    4.860    8,220    8.220
Jzan-reaental Production(tons)  -       -     750  2,430    4,bRO    0.220    8.220
Note: Yield figures are average for all areas utnder production.
a/ Includes .reas double-cropped.
bt  Rehabilibtted coffee lb assumed to cease production 6 yearb after
prunning.
ci No production without project.



- 38 -
6.07      Yield Development.  When a farmer adopts the technical packages
proposed, his yield levels are assumed to develop gradually from the
average traditional levels and the crop yield development is as in the
following table, and is also presented in the graph below.
Present and E ceYields in Proect Area
Year of
Present       Expected    Full Development
Crop                     Yield           Yield        for Farmer
Swamp Rice (tons/ha)             0.75            2.8             PY7
Upland Rice (tons/ha)             0.7           1.25             PYl
Rehabilitation Coffee (kg/ha)      70            250             PY3
New Coffee (kg/ha)                  -            650             PY8
Groundnuts (kg/ha)                250            600             PY3
Cassava (tons/ha)                   3              6             PYl
YIELD PROFILE
TONS PER HECTARE
2J --
2.6-
2.4-
2.-
2 -  Swamp Rice 
1i-I
e-6        SUpland Rice
In
I2 -
0.6
Cofee
0.4.-            Rehab.-,I
0.20
YrO   Yri   Yr2   Yr3   Y4    YrS   Yr6   Vr7   Yr
PROJECr YEAR



- 39 -
6.08      An average of 20% of all swamps would be double-cropped.  Under
the pilot project some farmers have been known to obtain close to 3 tons/ha
of rice in the swamps and over 1.3 tons/ha for upland rice. Yields have
however been estimated conservatively to take account of the larger project
size and of farmers who may be slow to adopt the recommended techniques.
Areas and production under coffee regeneration, groundnuts and cassava have
been kept deliberately low because of the absence of clearly identified
packages for these crops and the advanced age of existing coffee
plantations. These are pilot activities which, if successful during the
first few years of the project, could result in more farmers adopting the
simple package being introduced (fertilizer application, pruning for
coffee, and improved planting material for cassava).
C.   Consumption, Markets and Prices
6.09      Consumption.  Rice is the main staple food for Guinea and as such
is cultivated in all regions either as upland, bottomland or mangrove rice.
Most of the rice so produced is used for domestic subsistence consumption
with only minor quantities going on the local markets, mainly because of
the lack of producer incentives and the forced marketing policy of the
previous Government. Guinea's rice imports have increased rapidly from
some 42,700 tons in 1975 to about 109,000 tons in 1984 or on average by 11%
per year. Imported rice was mainly consumed in Conakry during the period
of the former regime while local rice was consumed in the interior of the
country. Imported rice is now however finding its way up-country as
Government restrictions on rice trade are being eased. Demand for rice
throughout the country has always been strong and continues to increase
with population growth of some 2.7% per annum. Besides, the forest region
has traditionally supplied rice to the Eastern and Central regions of
Guinea (Kankan, Labe, Faranah, etc.). The additional rice production from
the project should therefore easily find a market as has been the case with
the pilot project production if Government price policy does not give an
undue advantage to imported rice (pars 6.13). Groundnut and cassava are
crops consumed locally either in their raw form or as groundnut oil or
dried cassava. There exists a large local market for these crops judging
from their relatively high prices. Thus the extra project production for
these crops should also not pose a marketing problem. Coffee exports which
were as high as 11,000 tons in 1970 have fallen to under 1,000 tons per
year for both 1983 and 1984. Guinea had an export quota of some 15,000 tons
per year within the international coffee agreement but this has been
reduced to some 6,000 tons per year because of low exports in recent years.
It should not be difficult for the country to negotiate a higher quota if
necessary, and hence any extra coffee produced should be easily marketable.



- 40 -
6.10      Marketing.  Prior to April 1984, most marketing activities were
considered a public sector responsibility and until 1981, private trade was
prohibited and officially considered an anti-social activity. Government
over the years, therefore set up a comprehensive system of state trading
enterpriaes at different levels of the marketing process. Farmers were
subject to compulsory marketing quotas or "normes" requiring every producer
to deliver a quantity of agricultural produce equivalent to a value of 600
Sylis, (then equivalent to about US$25). Between 1981 and 1983 a certain
number of reforms were introduced including legalization of private trade
and official suppression of the "normes".
6.11      Since April 1984 the new Government has emphasized its intention
to enlarge the role of the private sector in marketing and it has taken
some measures including: removing road blocks that were used to control
movements of goods; liquidation of IMPORTEX, the state enterprise that was
responsible for all imports and exports; and rehabilitation of private
marketing unions, the BNCP ("Bureau National des Commercants Prives") and
the UPC ("Union Prefectorale des CommerCants") that had been made inactive
by the Sekou Toure regime. In addition, Government announced producer
price increases for export produce in June 1984, but because of the then
overvaluation of the local currency these price increases were not
sufficient to have any important incentive effects on production.
6.12      Despite the official ban that had been placed previously on
private trade, a large parallel market existed especially for foodstuffs as
well as for coffee which was exported clandestinely to neighbouring
countries. With the announced liberalization policy of the new Government,
the parallel market now operates unhindered and internal trade in
agricultural produce is permitted. However, except for the abolition of
IMPORTEX, there has been no reform of the public sector marketing system,
and all the public marketing agencies still exist. Marketing and exports
of the most important agricultural export crops, including coffee remain
under a state monopoly, PROSECO, and another state monopoly ALIMAG remains
the sole importer and distributor of imported rice even though imports of
other foodstuffs are now free.
6.13      While the existence of the public marketing system per se will
not affect the project, it is essential that producers in the project area
be allowed to market their produce freely and that the price of imported
rice be raised. Imported rice could compete with project produced rice if
its price (imported rice) remains at the low level of 20 Sylis/kg, and as
is happening under the liberalization policy, large quantities of imported
rice find their way to central and eastern Guinea, the principal markets
for project produced rice. With the monetary reform being considered by
the Government however, all subsidies on imported rice would be removed by
the end of 1985 when the price of imported rice is expected to increase to
80 Sylis/kg ex-warehouse Conakry. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government will at all times permit private sector trade in local
rice, remove all subsidies from imported rice, and review with IDA each
year rice prices with a view to considering an impcrt tax on rice if
exchange rate considerations and other factors warrant such a tax.



- 41 -
6.14      Coffee marketing procedures are yet to be defined by Government.
As of now, the EPCOAs (Entreprises Prefectorales de Commercialisation
Agricole) are in charge of the collection of all agricultural produce,
including coffee. With the anticipated public sector reform being
considered by Government under an upcoming Structural Adjustment Program
the EPCOAs are expected to be abolished. As part of the program also,
Government would completely liberalize internal coffee marketing.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would permit free
internal marketing of coffee for sale to PROSECO, the official produce
export agency in Conakry, at a price at least 80% of the world market (FOB)
price. The remaining 20% would cover sorting and handling charges of
PROSECO. Marketing of groundnuts and cassava would continue to be done by
private traders.
6.15      While the private sector is yet to be tried in Guinea in terms of
moving large quantities of produce, the flourishing parallel market that
existed under the former regime, and the response to date of private
traders. in terms of imports, to the liberalization announcements of the
new Government, indicate that the sector is largely capable of ensuring an
efficient marketing system. This experience is demonstrating that
competitive private trade in Guinea can serve both producers and consumers
better than the state enterprises engaged in domestic marketing of
agricultural produce. Private trade is therefore being encouraged under
the project.
6.16      Prices.  The official producer price for paddy has been fixed at
10 Sylis/kg or 20 Sylis/kg of rice net, to be sold to the EPCOAs at 12
Sylis and 22 Sylis per kg respectively in a barter transaction. In
practice, farmers sell to the EPCOAs only when the latter has imported
products in which the farmer is interested for barter. Official purchases
of domestically produced rice represent, as a consequence, less than 5% of
total production, the largest part being consumed on the farm or sold in
the parallel market. ALIMAG imported rice is sold, officially, to ration
card holders at 20 Sylis/kg but in practice imported rice sold on the open
market costs around 80 Sylis/kg. Prices at which rice can be sold in the
local markets around Gueckedou vary from 65 Sylls/kp (39 Sylis/kg paddy
equivalent) duriL  the harvesting period to about 125 Sylis/kg (75 Sylis
paddy equivalent) during the off-season, with an average yearly price of
about 80-85 Sylls/kg for rice (50-55 Sylis/kg paddy equivalent). These
prices tend to be quite inflexible downwards, since an active market exists
with traders coming from Labe, Kankan, Mamou etc. to buy, and since an
accessible national frontier is close by ensuring that prices bear close
relationship to border prices 2/. Thus despite the expected incremental
2/   Cooperatives in Lofa county in Liberia buy white rice from their
members at a price of 40 US cents per kg, which converted at the
parallel market rate for the Syli is equivalent to about 100 Sylis/kg.



- 42 -
production from the project, farmers should receive at least an average of
45 Sylis/kg for paddy for their production. For purposes of analyzing
project effects on farmer incomes this price has been used.
6.17      The official producer price for coffee was raised in June 1984
from 45 Sylis/kg to 55 Sylis/kg. This price, at the then official exchange
rate, was over US$2.25/kg but at the new rate, approximately the old
parallel rate would only be about US$0.22/kg. Thus most coffee was sold on
the parallel market for export via Liberia. Prices for coffee on the free
market vary considerably between the project zone where it is about 150-250
Sylis/kg and Macenta region where it is close to 400 Sylis/kg, because of
the easier access of the latter region to Liberia. For the farm budgets a
price of 400 Sylis per kg of parchment coffee is used.
6.18      Shelled groundnut prices in the Gueckedou region average about
100-120 Sylis per kg (72-85 Sylis - unshelled) with a price of about 140
Sylis per kg in Conakry while dried cassava sells for about 60 Sylis per kg
or 25-30 Sylis per kg for fresh cassava. The lower prices are used in
analysing project effects on farm incomes. No major changes in these
prices are expected as a result of the devaluation though there is a
possibility of slight increases in them.
D.        Impact on Farmers' Incomes
6.18      Farmers participating in the project normally derive their
incomes from various sources other than rice which is principally meant for
family consumption. Their main activities however revolve around and are
dictated by rice cultivation. Thus rice, and crops coming in rotation with
it (groundnuts, cassava), are the main activities that the farmers do
consistently and hence in preparing farm budgets we have limited ourselves
to these crops and coffee that would be directly affected by the project.
Evolution of per ha income and Income per manday for these principal crops
is given in the table and graphs in the next two pages. Details on the
farm budgets are in Annex 6-2.
6.19      The farm budgets have been prepared on the assumption that output
prices do not change from those presently prevailing on the parallel market
even with devaluation, except for coffee, where prices currently in force
in Macenta region are used, but that all imported input prices will rise to
reflect the change in exchange rate from 24.4 Sylis = US$1 to 250 Sylis
US$1 and that there will be no subsidy on inputs. "With project"
production costs therefore do rise significantly above the without project
situation but despite this, farmers participating in the project will be
able to more than double their net returns per ha and per manday from the
project.



- 43 -
FARMER CROP RETURNS
SArUS PER MAN -04Y
+20
+00                  a e              i                         I
380 -
340 -                                      Swamp
320 -        Groundnuts
300
280 -'
7L260             9/       7                          ofe
240-                                  Upland
220 
200-
160 *
Prfl    PYi      PY2     PY3      PY14-    PI5     pVC    PY7+
FARMER CROP RETURNS
4.0*              ~~~~(SrtJS PER MANDA%r)
3.0-
1.5
&1.0
-0.5 -
PtO  PYI   P2   P13   PY4-  WS P      6f6  Pn7  P1S     9 Po10



- 44 -
Return frui' -raq P,.dustlsn
Without
Prz.jett                      WI tll I'ti'Jt.I
Pi0 -        - w.         PPY      I . ; ....... .45  PY7+
Suamp Rice
C.rnsh Value vf Pr.'durtlssn ('000 Sylli.)        33.11          51.         IF0.         1.'.%       1/A. 1
Tstu] Production Couts ('000 SylIa)                12.3          30.8         35. v        4U.9        'IN.11
Net Income per ha ('000 Sylia)                    21.5           27.7         ha.5         71.6        114.0
mandmys per ha                                    124           16h          219          227          -IN
Net InLooe per Manday (SyJiu)                     173           1b0          313          316         37
Upland Rice
Crou,' Value of ProductJno  ('000 Sylis)          31.5           56.3         5t.3         56.3        56.3
Total proiduction LObts ('000 Sylis)               8.5           24.9         16.1         16.1        1b.1
Net Income per he ('000 Sylis)                    23.0           31.4         40.1         40.1        40.1
Mandays per ha                                    125           146          146          146          146
Net Income per Manday (Sylis)                     180           215          275          275         275
Groundnuts
Grous Value of Production ('000 Sylis)             18.0          32.4         43.2         43.2        43.2
Total production cobts ('000 Sylis)                 7.3          19.8         16.6         16.6         1b.6
Net Income per ha ('000 Sylis)                    10.7           12.6         26.6         26.6        26.6
Mandays per ha                                    47             60           66           66          66
Net Income per Mandays (Sylis)                   229            211          403         403          403
Cassava
Cross Value of ProductJon ('000 Sylis)            75.0          150.0        150.0        150.0       150.0
Total Production Costs ('000 Sylia)                2.5           13.4         10.3         J0.3         10.3
Net Income per ha ('000 Sylis)                    72.5          136.6        139.7        139.7       139.7
Mmndayb per ha                                     70            98           98           98          98
Net Jncc.me per Monday (Sy3is)                  1.036         1,394        1.42b        1,426       1.42b
Coffee Rehabilitation
cr."# V.. lee s.f Praiductlisol ('000 SyJ1")     28.0           lb.0         1(1.0       101.11          -
Total Productlon Costs ('0U0 Sylic)                 3.3          18.9         10.0         13.3           -
Net Income per ha ('000 Syll&)                    24.7           -2.9         70.0         86.7
Mondays                                           21             79           23           23
Net Income per Manday (Sylis)                   1.179           -36        3.043       3.772
Coffee Plantation
(:rObh Value Production                              -              -        100          160         '6U
Total Production Costs ('000 Sylis)                  -           25.7         14.5         17.8 6n_ 
Net Incose per ha ('000 Sylls)                                  -25.7         85.5        142.2       239.9
Mandays                                               -         112           39           43          63
Net Income per Manday (Sylis)                         -        -229        2,192       3,308        3,808



- 45 -
The net incomes per manday obtained from the different crops all compare
very favorably with the average actual labor wage rate in the region of
150-200 Sylis per manday. All proposed activities are labor intensive and
will require an increase of some 40 to 5GZ over current labor usage but in
almost all cases, farmers should be able to do all activities using only
family labor. Only in the development phase of swamps will some farmers
require to employ additional wage labor. This is provided for under the
credit component of the project (para 3.17).
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Direct Benefits
7.01      The main quantifiable and direct benefits from the project would
be the increased production of paddy, and coffee from new plantations.
Coffee pruning, groundnuts and cassava, though pilot activities, are also
expected to yield some incremental production. At full development the
project would give an incremental production of about 15,700 tons of paddy
(10,000 tons rice); over 600 tons of coffee; and if the pilot activities
succeed, about 700 tons of groundnuts; and over 8,000 tons of cassava. In
addition the project would generate over 764,000 man-days (2,600 man-years)
of additional employment per year, for the rural population, not counting
the employment of project permanent and temporary staff. The road
construction and rehabilitation program will provide a very useful service
presently inexistent in the Gueckedou area.
B.   Other Benefits
7.02      The project has other benefits which, though not directly
quantifiable, are no less important. The complete integration of project
activities and those of the regional agricultural service makes the latter
the ideal regional service to be aimed for, and the project will help test
this concept. and provide an institution building framework that would be
useful in agricultural development ia the country. The project will
continue the testing of simple technical packages, for swamp development,
groundnut and cassava development, and coffee pruning that have been
successfully implemented under similar conditions elsewhere in West Africa.
The applied research component could have a significant impact on rice and
other food crop production not only in the project area but throughout the
country and especially in the forest region. The introduction of a
producer group development component would contribute towards encouraging
development of village enterpreneurial skills and permit farmers to take
charge of simple services.
C.   Economic Analysis
7.03      In doing the economic analysis, we have only taken account rf
activities with proven technical packages (rice and new coffee plantation),



- 46 -
and left out the pilot production components for coffee rehabilitation,
groundnuts and cassava. It is estimated that about 202 of all project
non-input costs will be for the pilot activities and hence the base case
economic analysis is done using benefits from rice and new coffee
plantation production and 80% of total project non-input costs plus input
costs for these two crops. The following are the other main assumptions
used in the economic analysis.
7.04      Without Project Situation.  The "without project" situation is
taken to be the level under traditional production conditions. All
incremental benefits and costs are calculated with reference to this level
and areas, yields and input use are projected to remain at this level
without the project. All areas on which the project package will be used
(except for new coffee pantations) are assumed to be cultivated in the
without project situation.
7.05      With Project Situation:
(i) Costs. All incremental costs, including technical assistance and
studies, have been included in the economic rate of return
calculation subject to the qualification given in para 7.03.
Recurrent costs associated with maintaining production under the
pilot phase, whicb were included in total project -osts (para
4.02) for purposes of showing project financing needs have been
excluded and so have all benefits of the pilot phase. All costs
have been calculated using an exchange rate of 250 Sylis - U:-.
Incremental labor costs are estimated at 200 Sylis per man-day,
compared to an average wage of 150-200 Sylis per man-day and
local personnel costs are double their level as of end-1984.
(ii) Prices. Economic farmgate prices have been calculated for rice.
coffee and fertilizer on the basis of projected world market
prices for these products as presented in the January 1985 IBD
Half Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts and summarized
graphically below. For purposes of sensitivity analysis prices
of groundnuts and cassava are taken as those prevailing on the
local market.
(iii) Other Main AssumptioD s. (i) Project life is estimated at 20
years with no residual values; (ii) no additional benefits were
attributed to the road construction program even though it was
fully costed for the first five years of the project; (iii) no
additional expenditure or road construction is included after the
five year funding period though some road maintenance costs are
included; (iv) costs for maintenance of project infrastructure,
extension and other support personnel, and replacement of project
vehicles and equipment are included. Annex 7-1 gives the key
assumptions used in the economic analysis.



- 47 -
WORLD MARKET RICE PRICES
700                     (US/Mr. FOI E#tCOK)
eoo                                                             /
500                         f 
400 
300-
200 -
10030    lees    170    1075    1080    18          1te0    1ees
o  CURRENT         t  CONSTANT 1 05
WORLD MARKET COFFEE PRICES
-  (US.0/1VINTN YORK INDICATOR PRICES)
3-
2-
1 
1060    1065    1Q70    1075    1 ;80    I0a    190    1005
a  CUMENT          +  OONSTANT 1985



- 48 -
D.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.06      The economic rate of return for the base case is estimated at
about 23%.
7.07      Sensitivity Analysis: Several sensitivity tests were carried out
on the economic rate of return, and the results are presented in the graph
and Table below.
SENSITIV ITY  ANALYSIS
PROCT AS A W4OLE
50-~~~~~~~~~S
L... 30
0
0-
50.0        75.o        100.0        125.0        150.0
56 OF APPRASL %tUJE
a  BENEFIS       4-  cSts
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
(in Z)
Assumption
Base case                                  23.4
Benefits down 20Z                          14.9
Costs up 20%                               16.5
Benefits down 20%, costs up 20Z             8.3
Benefits lagged 1 year                     16.9
Benefits lagged 3 years                     9.7
Including all pilot activity costs
and benefits                              24.0
Including pilot activity costs but
not benefits                              18.3
Including ORG Recurrent costs but
not benefits                              20.8
Including all ORG costs and benefits       16.3



- 49 -
Switching Values at 10% Opportunity Cost of
Capital as % of Appraisal Value
Benefits                                  -30
Costs                                      43
7.08      The project's economic rate of return is fairly high because of
the sunk costs from the pilot phase.  It is fairly insensitive to
shortfalls in benefits or increases in costs but perhaps not as resilient
as one would have expected because of the assumed slow initial build-up in
areas to be cultivated and yields and also because of the high TA and road
construction costs included. The ERR's switching values at a 10% discount
rate are however sufficiently high (30Z shortfall in benefits and 43%
increase in costs over the base case) to ensure that the project would have
a reasonable rate of return. The net present value at a discount rate of
10% is 2.5 billion Sylis (US$9.8 million). The effects of alternative
assumptions on the ERR are in Annex 7-2.
E.  Project Risks
7.09      Though the project stands up fairly well to shortfalls in
benefits, some risk elements do remain for the productive components. For
upland rice as well as the other rainfed crops (groundnuts, cassava,
coffee) there is the risk that rainfall will be insufficient and hence
expected yields would not be attained. Rainfall in the project area is
however normally reliable and fairly well distributed and this reduces the
risk for rainfed cultivation. Another risk element centers around the high
increase in fertilizer prices following a large devaluation. Pilot project
farmers have been buying fertilizer at 18 Sylis per kg but with the
devaluation (para 3.17) and without subsidy the price is expected to be
about 100 Sylis per kg. Despite the fact that farm budgets show that it is
still profitable for farmers to use fertilizer at this new price, they may
be reluctant at the beginning to pay such prices. The project's credit
component would permit farmers to at least realize the benefits before
paying for the input. Other incremental per hectare costs are very low and
hence farmers should be able to pay the new prices. The operation of the
credit component itself would involve some risks. There is the risk that
the credit unit, because of lack of experience, may not be able to operate
the system well. The internal control and accounting system being prepared
now should provide a good monitoring system and help performance of the
credit unit. The credit component would be followed closely during project
implementation with a view to transfering responsibility for credit
administration to a viable credit institution that may be set up during
Government's Structural Adjustment Program. The Government monetary reform
program should also help alleviate the foreign exchange shortage, at leapt
from the fourth project year, while foreign exchange costs of recurrent
inputs will be financed externally during the first three years.



- 50 -
7.10      Another possible risk would be on the marketing side (paras
6.10-6.13). The official marketing and pricing systems are very inadequate
and farmer experience with it has been bad. Any attempt therefore by
Government to impose an official marketing system on the project would be
counterproductive and may lead to a large decrease in project participants
thereby affecting project output. The assurances obtained at negotiations
as well as those being sought through the SAC on free marketing of produce
(para 6.13) are designed to eliminate this risk. Other risks involving
poor management and financial and internal controls are expected to be
considerably reduced with the experience gained by project management and
staff under the pilot project and the installation of an internal control
system before the project starts.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATION
8.01      Assurances on the following points were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  Input prices to farmers would reflect their real purchase and
distribution costs for imported inputs and to reflect production
costs in the case of seeds, and that both short and medium term
credit would attract an interest rate of 10%, or the rate fixed
by Government for such credit in the monetary reform program
(para 3.17).
(b) All bidding packages for IDA financed goods over iJS$50,000 and
works over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review of
procurement documentation (para 4.10).
(c) All project accounts, including the Credit Fund account, would be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA, and the Gueckedou
Prefectoral Directorate of Agriculture would submit a
semi-annual progress report and annual financial statements and
forecasts to IDA (para 4.12).
(d)  The project would be allowed complete financial and operational
autonomy under the guidance of the Minister of Rural Development
or his designated representative (para 5.01).
(e)  Government would provide the necessary foreign exchange for
procuring recurrent inputs from the fourth year of the project
(para 5.08).
(f)  Government will at all times permit private sector trade in local
rice, remove all subsidies on imported rice, and review rice
prices with IDA each year (para 6.13).
(g)  Government will permit free internal marketing of coffee for sale
to PROSECO, the official produce export agency in Conakry, at a
price at least 80% of the FOB world market price (para 6.14).



- 51 -
8.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) Signing of a satisfactory contract for the project's technical
assistance positions (para 3.21).
(b) Cross-effectiveness with the IFAD and AfDF agreements
(para 4.05).
(c) Opening of a special foreign exchange account in a commercial
bank in Conakry and a local currency account with a commercial
bank in Gueckedou with Government's initial deposit of 80 million
Sylis (para 4.08).
(d) A decree or an arrete intregrating ORG and the Prefectoral
Directorate of Rural Development into one unit, and giving the
directorate full responsibility for agricultural activities in
Southern Kissidougou (para 5.01).
Ce) Appointment of a suitable Guinean as head of the Gueckedou
Prefectoral Directorate of Rural Development (para 5.02).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is
considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.6 million.
WAPA A
November 1985



GUINEA
SECOND RICE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN
COMPONENT                               TRAININM  ACTIVITY                        TARGET STAFF        LOCATION/SOURCE I/       DURATION
Project management                       Project orientation - objectives, management   Senior Supervisory           At project - by        3 man-   21
system ate                                                                  Consultants           months
TraLiLng                                 Training trainers                                  Trainers A SS's          At project - by        2 veeks
Sonior Trainer
Agriculture                               Rice & other food crop agronomy - Loproved        Extension staff           At project -          12 veeks  3/
techniques, faso economics                                                 SHS & Sur Staff
Extension Hethod                          Training and Vidit system                         All extension             At project -           3 days
Staff                    Sur. Staff a
Consultants
Civil Works                              Surveying. irrigation designs, roads               CLvil Works staff        At project -            2 veeks  3/
nr. Staff
Extension * Credit                        Promotion & establishment of farmers              Extension * Credit        At project -           3 days
groupe or associacions                            staff                     Consultants &
Trainers.
Womn's Activities                         NutritLon, home econoLces etc Integrated          Womn Extension            Local 4                4 weeks  31
vith agriculture                                  Workers                   Concultants                                '
Inputs A  Credit                         Organization & distribution of inputs,             Credit Staff              At project -           6 weeks
credit arrangements                                                         Consultants
Crops Research                            Basic crop research techniques,                   Research staff            At project -           8 day    31
management                                                                  Snr Staff
Seed Production                           Improved need production - agronomy,              Seed Productlon           At project -            8 days   3/
organiaatlon of outgrovers, processing,           Unit staff                Snr Staff
seed farm
Accounts                                 Accounting operations and system of                Accounts                  At project -            2 vweks  3/
project                                           personnel                 Sor. Staff
Vehicles A Equipm_nt                     Operation and maintenance of vehicles A            Chauffeurs                At project -            3 days   3/
equipment                                         a operatcr                Snr. Staff Local
Workshop                                  Light a heavy equipm_nt maintenance a             motor mehanics            Local * at project    4 wveeks  3
repairs
Noaitoring A Evaluation                   Unit's objectives - survey technLques,            H & E Staff               At project -            8 days   3/
analysis of data                                                            Snr. Staff,
Consultants.
I/     The main source of training would be on-the-job. This program is intended to broaden or
reinforce the technical bue on which on-the-job training can be built.
2/     Consist of 2 semInrs - (a) to set out project objectives, resources needed, obstacles forneen,
and management systems to be used; (b) follow-up seminer one year later to assess progress.
3/     Not necessarily at one *esslon



- 53 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 8
GUINEA
SECOND RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. Present Status
Provision of agricultural credit in Guinea has normally been the
responsibility of the National Bank for Agricultural Development, BNDA,
but because of lack of personnel and absence of field offices it has not
been able to fulfill this role. Under the pilot phase of the project, ORG
signed an agreement with BNDA, through which the latter seconded a credit
agent to ORG, to be responsible for agricultural credit. The agent works
with the management of ORG and has two credit agents per zone. Credit
terms are one year for short term credit (fertilizer, seed and
implements), and three years for medium term credit of agricultural
equipment and labor costs for land development. All credit attracts an
interest rate of 7X, 3 points below the BNDA credit rate of IOZ.
B. Record of Agricultural Credit in the First Phase
The credit unit, during the pilot phase, has been attached to
the extension unit and field extension agents give out inputs as a
function of farmer needs and record all credit given out for submission
to, and control by, the credit unit. Except for credit for labor, used in
land development, all other credit is given out in kind, and as Government
policy dictated credit was to be paid back in kind, mostly through rice.
Credit recording and collection under the pilot phase has not
been satisfactory.   In the initial project years, recording of credit
given out was done satisfactorily but repayments in kind have normally not
been recorded and hence it has been difficult to establish the correct
reimbursement rate. The table below gives the amounts of credit given out
and the cash reimbursements.



- 54 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 8
Seasonal Credit
Amount a/           No of            Repayment
Year         ('000 Sylis)          Farmers         ('000 Sylis)            Z
1981 
1982           364.381 b/             560             101.890             28
1983         3,962.930              2,818           2,095.193 c/          53
1984         4,182.400 d/           4,123              N.A.             N.A.
a/ Credit amounts as recorded by the credit unit. Quantities of inputs
distributed by the Extension Unit suggest that credit amounts should
have been 4,982,000 Sylis for 1983 and 6,086,000 Sylis for 1984.
b/ Includes a credit of 263,851 Sylis in spare parts to the Communal State
Farms (Fermes Agro-Communales, FAC) which was not repaid. Otherwise
farmer repayment was 10OZ.
c/ Because of Government insistence that credit repayments be in kind,
debt collection did not start until May 1984 when it should have
started about November 83.
d/ Collection was to start in November 1984.
Medium Term Credit
N' of      Amount           Amount Due       Repayment
Year    Farmers    ('000 Sylis)    ('000 Sylis)    ('000 Sylis)        Z
1981       -              _               _                _
1982      36           127.100          48.500 a/        45.330      93
1983     225         1,115.400         473.500            n.a.        0
1984         -    -------------  Not available  ---
a/ The credit department estimated amount due as 45,330 Sylis implying an
interest rate of 3.5%.
The credit record as shown above by the two tables is very
poor. The Credit Unit was unable to supply up to date figures either on
total credits taken or amounts paid back. The appraisal mission
recommended an audit of all Phase 1 project activities with one of the
principal tasks to establish the true situation of agricultural credit
during this first phase. The audit begun on March 18, 1985 and the
audit report submitted in July 1985. Because of the poor credit recording



- 55 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 8
system the audit report estimates that it would be difficult to obtain
reimbursement for that over half of all credits given out. The audit
mission has now proposed ways of better organizing agricultural credit
during the second phase.
C. Credit in the Second Project
1.         Credit Needs.  Total input financing needs during the project
period have been estimated at US$5.9 million including contingencies, of
which US$4.8 milion is in foreign exchange (see pages 6 and 7 below).
Credit will be supplied for fertilizer, improved seeds, and small
implements as seasonal credit; and for rice hullers, processing equipment
for coffee, some cement (for drying floors), and labor costs for swamp
development as medium term credit.
2.        Credit Terms.  Short-term credit will be for a one-year period
with a rate of interest of 10X, or the rate to be established by
Government for such credit in its monetary reform program. Medium term
credit will be for three years, and in eacb case (except for labor costs),
there will be a 252 down-payment with equal instalment payments at the end
of each cropping season. The rate of interest will also be at 10%. All
inputs will be sold at the estimated warehouse value plus a mark-up for
distribution costs, estimated at 6 Sylis per kilo for inputs, and
including interest charges.
3.         Credit Administration.  The Credit Unit of ORG will be
reorganized and placed under the direct responsibility of the expatriate
Financial Controller being recruited for the second phase. The Project
entity, DPDRG, will sign an agreement with BNDA or any new credit
Institution to participate more actively in Credit Administration through
the secondment of staff and frequent review of project credit activities.
The project credit fund will receive its capital as a grant and
through the capital repayments, interest charges, and payment of
distribution costs it will build up a credit fund. The operating costs of
the credit unit will be regarded as a development charge to the project.
Thus the interest charges and distribution margins will serve to cover bad
debts and inflation. Since bad debts may be as much as 102, the total
credit fund may decline in real terms since inflation will not be covered,
but the project will be encouraged to increase input prices to reflect
inflation to the extent possible.
The operation of the credit unit will be reviewed in the third
project year and if a viable and functional agricultural credit
institution has been established in Guinea, the credit fund will pass on
to the Institution, who will then be responsible for credit to the project
farmers. For this purpose 12 man- monthsof consultant time have been
included in project costs for a credit study to make recommendations on
the future of credit in the country and in the project area.



- 56 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 8
4.        Operating means of Credit Unit.  The credit unit will be
supplied with vehicles and operating funds as a development charge to the
project. There are eight two-ton trucks that are being purchased for the
unit for input distribution, and the direct administration of credit will
be done by a credit manager, assisted by an accountant and 16 credit
agents. The table below gives a summary of operating costs of the *redit
unit.
Estimated Costs of Credit Unit
(US$'000 - June 1985 terms)
PYL     PY2     PY3      PY4     PY5    Total
Vehicles and Equipment       85.9      2.3     2.3        -       -     90.5
Fuel and Lubricants          31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    156.0
Other Operating Costs        40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    201.5
Personnel                    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5       62.5
Total Base Costs            169.9    86.3    86.3    84.0    84.0    510.5
- ==    as   == ~  
5.        Responsibilities of the Credit Department.  The main
responsibilities of the Department will be:
(a) to study farmer credit requirements and determine their annual
financial needs for the supply of agricultural inputs and
equipment. Liaise with the Technical and Development
Departments to determine the quantities of inputs needed, the
number and location of farmers;
(b) to prepare, approve, issue and control credit and credit
agreements to farmers;
(c) to distribute inputs to farmers;
(d) to recover and collect all credit repayments; and
(e) to maintain an adequate accounting record to account for project
funds received, credit advanced to farmers, and monies collected
as reimbursement.
6.        Credit Requirements and Financing.  Total credit requirements
have been estimated at US$5.9 million (1.5 billion Sylis), including
contingencies, of which US$4.8 million (or 1.21 billion Sylis) is in
foreign exchange. For purposes of estimating external financing needs for
the credit fund we have made the following assumptions: (a) 90% repayment
rate for both short-term and medium term credit; (b) there is a one-year
lag between when funds are needed and repayments ; and (c) because of the
difficult foreign exchange situation of Guinea, reimbursement funds cannot
be converted into foreign exchange, at least for the first three years.



- 57 -
Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 8
Based OD the above assumptions total external financing needs
bave been estimated at US$3.1 million. This includes US$375,000 in
recurrent cost financing for PY2 and PY3, being the foreign exchange cost
for recurrent inputs for the two years. From PY4 when Lhe Government's
monetary adjustment program would have had time to work, foreign exchange
avaiJability in Guinea is expected to fimplcive and hence all recurrent
input costs (including the foreign exchange portion) as well as local
costs of inputs will be financed from the Credit Fund. For the first
three years Government and beneficiaries would finance only the local cost
portion of inputs.



- 58 -
AMIE 3-2
Page 6 of 8
GUINEA
I;UECKENU AIRICLLTURAL KEYELOPEENT PRDJECT
_______-- ______-- ___----- - ___-- _______---
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PT      PY       PY        PY        PY      TOTAL   LOCAL FOREI1  LOCAL   FOREI61
1       2        3        4         5     (000 US)  COSTS  CoSTS   COSTS    COSTS
JANI6                                                    I       I    (000 US) (000 US$)
TOTAL INPUT FINANING NEEDS
Furtiliz r/Pnticides        79.01   157.41   241.85   288.54   350.09   1122.90   0.10    0.90    112.29  1010.61
Rice Sed                     9.20    13.49   34.92    76.24    116.44   250.29    1.00   0.00   250.28    0.00
Other Seed                   0.39     3.27    7.47     12.25    16.31    39.70    0.52   0.48    20.64    19.05
lplmnts                    71.06   92.00   143.78    161.59   160.00   629.44   0.00    1.00        0.00  628.44
Agricultural Equipmnt       40.64   40.64   40.64    40.64    40.64   203.20    0.01    o.9          2.03  201.17
Land Dkvelnpent              9.00    9.00   15.00    15.00    12.00    60.00    1.00   0.00    60.00    0.00
Rr grrent Inputs             0.00   79.01   236.41    484.26   772.00   1572.49    0.10    0.90    157.25  1415.24
209.31   394.01   726.07   1079.52  1468.29  3977.00                    602.49  3274.50
Physical Contingencies      20.93   39.48   72.61    107.85    146.83   387.70                      60.25  327.45
Inflation                  230.25   434.29  719.69   1186.37   1615.11   4264.70    0.16    0.94   662.74  3601.15
Local                        5.97   18.23   56.93    132.09   243.51    456.63                     456.63    0.00
Foreign                     15.07   61.39   174.23   351.81   619.49   1221.99                       0.00  1221.99
20.94    79.62  231.16   493.90   863.00   1678.62   0.27    0.73   456.63  1221.99
TOTAL                      251.19   513.90  1029.94   1670.28  2478.11   5943.32    0.19   0.81   1119.37  4923.94
of which
RECIURRENT                 0.00   101.35   327.23    723.52   1246.90   2399.00    0.13    0.87    301.13  2097.97
INCREMENTAL              251.19  412.56   702.61   946.76  1231.21   3544.32    0.23   0.77   619.25  2726.07
REPAYTENT BY FARNERS (902 Repayment)
PRINCIPAL
Fertilizer/Pesticides        0.00   71.11   212.77   435.94   695.52   1415.24    1.00   0.00   1415.24       0.00
Rice Seed                    0.00    8.29    12.13    31.43    66.62    120.46    1.00   0.00    120.46    0.00
Other See                    0.00    0.35    2.95       6.73     11.03    21.05    1.00   0.00    21.05    0.00
Implements                   0.00   63.97    92.80    129.40   145.43   421.59    1.00   0.00   421.59    0.00
Agricultural Equipmnt       10.16    19.29   27.43    36.59    36.59    129.03    1.00   0.00    129.03    0.00
Land Development             0.00     2.70     5.40     9.90     11.70    29.70    1.00   0.00    29.70    0.00
SUB-TOTAL                   10.16   164.69   343.48   649.86   %8.87   2137.07                    2137.07    0.00
Physical Contingencies       1.02    16.47    34.35    64.99    96.89    213.71                    213.71     0.00
INFLATION                    0.00    18.85    71.65    208.05   435.51    734.06    1.00    0.00    734.06    0.00
TOT.PRINC.REPAYNENT
(Current Prices)            11.18   200.01   449.49    922.90  1501.27   3064.93                  3094.B3    0.00
PA  A    20-ct-85



- 59 -
ANEI 3-2
Page 7 of 8
6UUNEA 
SWUMAED  GR ILTURAL DEWE  PROECT
AGRICULTIAL CREDIT
py     PY      PT       PT       PT     TOTAL   LOCAL FOREIN  LOCAL   FOWEISI
1      2       3       4        5    (000 11S) COSTS   OSTS   COSTS    cOSTS
JAN 86                                              I      Z   (000 US5) (000 us$)
INTEREST
Fertilizer/Pesticides     0.00    7.11   21.28    43.59    69.55   141.52   1.00   0.00   141.52    0.00
Rice Sud                  0.00    0.83    1.21     3.14     6.96    12.05   1.00   0.00    12.05    0.00
Other Seed                0.00    0.04    0.29     0.67     1.10     2.1£   1.00   0.00     2.11    0.00
Imlements                 0.00    6.40    8.29    12.94    14.54    42.16   1.00   0.00    42.16    0.00
Agricultural Equipmt      0.00    2.90    4.79     6.68     6.68    21.05   1.00   0.00    21.05    0.00
Land Belapent             0.00    0.56    1.11     2.04     2.42     6.13   1.00   0.00     6.13    0.00
SUE-TOTAL                 0.00   17.83   36.97    69.06   101.t5   225.01                 225.0t    0.00
Distribution Charges      0.00    3.24    9.93    20.50    32.89    66.55   1.00   0.00    66.55    0.00
TOT.REPAYNENT FARMERS    11.18  221.08  496.39  1012.45  1635.30  3376.40                3376.40    0.00
CASH FLOW CREDIT FUND
NiEC  OF FURDS
REPAYMENT .INTEREST      11.18  221.08  496.38  1012.45  1635.30  3376.40   1.00   0.00  3376.40    0.00
FU=OS CARRIED F'1.               11.18  160.99   497.53   520.84   569.43   1.00   0.00   569.43    0.00
GDISOEVENT               35.26    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    35.26   1.0    0.00    35.26   40.00
DlWlIS                  215.93  442.63  960.01   691.13   891.39  3101.09   0.00   1.00     0.00 3101.09
INCRENENTAL           215.93  354.00  573.85   691.13   891.39  2726.31   0.00   1.00     0.00 2726.31
RECURRENT               0.00   89.62  296.16     0.00     0.00   374.78   0.00   1.00     0.00  374.78
262.36  674.99 1517.37  2191.11  3047.53                        3991.08 3101.09
USE OF FUNDS
INPUT FIN. NEEDS        251.19  513.90 1029.84  1670.28  2478.11  5943.32   0.19   0.81  1119.37 4823.94
LOCAL                  35.26   71.28  169.94   324.92   518.00  1119.37
FOREE6                215.93  442.63  960.01  1345.36' 1960.03  4823.94
CREDIT FUND(CUNUL.I      11.10  160.98  487.53   520.94   569.43
262.36  674.99 1517.37  2191.11  3047.53
IWA A    20-Ot-85



- 60 -
AMEX 3-2
Yage 8 iof 8
GUIEA
GUECEDU b6RIOULTURAL EVELDPIEIT PROJECT
bRICULTURiAL CREDIT
PT      PY      PY                 PY     TOTAL   LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL   FOREIGN
1       2       3       4         5    (000 U5ss  OASTS  cosrs   cOSTS    COSTS
JAN96                                                 Z       I   (000 tip) WOO M5)
SURTY OF CEIT REUFENT & FINANCIN
TOT.I10WT FIN. NEEDS     251.19  513.90 t029.84  1670.29  2478.11  5943.32   0.19   0.81  1119.37 4923.94
TOT.LOCAL FINDS NEEDED    35.26   71.29  169.84   324.92   518.90  1119.37   1.00   0.00  1119.37    0.00
FINANCING FROh CREDIT FtII   0.00   71.28  169.84   T7.14  15U.71  2806.97   0.39   0.61   1064.12 IM.85
of miici:
LOCAL                0.00   71.28  169.84   324.92   518.08  1064.12                   1094.12    0.00
FOREIGN              0.00    0.00    0.00   654.22  1068.63  1722.85                      0.00 1M.85
CREDUFND BALANCE           11.18  160.98  487.53   520.84   569.43   569.43                   569.43    0.00
GVOERNENT CONTRIDUTION    35.26    -        -       -         -        35.26   1.00   0.00    35.26    0.00
EXTERNAL FINANCIN6 NEEDS   215.93  442.63  960.01   691.13   991.39  3101.09   0.00   1.00      0.00 3101.09
NAPA A    20-Oct-85



- 61 -
Annex 3-3
GUINEA
SECOND RICE DEVELOPME?T PROJECT
Consultant Services
1.        The project would provide up to 21 man- months of short-term
consultant services, individually or tbrough consulting firms to assist in
the following:
(a) provide experienced guidance in the platrring, designing and
execution of the projects monitoring and evaluation program (3
man-months);
(b) hold two seminars for supervising project staff, the first to
set out project objectives, identify the required resources, and
determiDe management systems, including credit administration,
to be used !v attain them, and the second one year later to
review and assess progress (3 man-months);
(c) plan and provide periodic supervision for the coffee
rehabilitation and planting program, with technical support on
cultivation techniques and nutrient status (5 man-months);
Cd) provide specialized teebcical services in assessing soil and
hydrological potential of the Gueckedou region to assist in
determiniDg appropriate cropping patterns (2 man-months);
Ce) identity and prepare tree crops project to better utilize the
forest zone, such projects could include coffee, cocoa and oil
palm (4 man-months);
(f) provide advisory services in developmental matters such as
extension, credit, farmer organization, women's activities (e.g.
agriculture, nutrition, home management) (4 man-months).
2.        In addition to the above, about 12 man-months of consultant
services have been included for doing an agricultural credit study for the
country and the project. An extra 10 man-months of consultant services
will be used to prepare a possible follow-up project. The African
Development Fund also proposes to finance some 30 man-months of
consultants to prepare projects in the forest zone.



GUINEA
SECONtUD .CE DEVELOP1H1ENT PiWOJECT
TRAINING
Study Trips and Slhort
-'Ierm AttacitwentsL a/
In Guiniea             W. Africa                Elsewhere
Project Hanagement                                   -                       -                       2
Accounting                                           -                        2                      -
Training                                                                      I                       I
Extension                                            -                       5                       1
Research & Seed Production                           -                       3                       2
Land Development                                     -                       2                       -
Women's Activities                                   -                       -                       5
Monitorinig & Evaluation                             -                       2                       2
Farmers Groups & Credit                              -                       3                       -
Coffee Production                                    -                       10                      -
Oil Palm Production                                  -                       4                       -
Rice Production                                      -                       4                       -
a/  To study operations of functioning institutions and projects over periods from
l week - 6 months.
Althoughi tthere is need of fellowshlips to upgrade the capability of senior level
staff, fellowship needs of Guinea would be dealt witih under the proposed study
on the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture.
WAPA A
June 1985



- 63 -
AIOIE 4-1
Page I of 2
UINEA
GUECKEOOU AGRICULTUIRL DEVELU'IUIT PROJECT
PMECT COST SUIIUIYI IPOR61
PV     PY       Pr       PY      Pn        TOTAL  Z BASE FOPEI6  FOREIGN
1      2        3        4       S        COSTS  COSTS  CSTS   COSTS
1996   1997   1999    1999    1990    ('000    5)        I'OOOUS 5)  Z
A. NAMEiT &  NDIIIE1STRATION
1. Vehicles & Equipmt         203.43  69.52   U.03    72.20   31.12         420.30   2.3   M.74        93
2. Construction                69.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        699.12   3.9   516.96      74
3. Fuel & Lubricants            97.30   97.30   97.30    97.30   97.30      486.50  2.7   291.90       60
4. Other Operating Costs       152.00  152.00   152.00   152.00   152.00    760.00   4.2   479.50       63
5. Local Personnel             33.20  33.20   33.20    33.20   33.20        166.00   0.9      0.00      0
6. Support for hr. Dev.        150.00   0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      150.00  0.9   200.00    133
Sub-TotalINgt. & ain.)        1335.05  352.02  326.53  354.70   313.62    2681.92  15.0   1U1.00       70
-. ETEISIOE,TRAININS VlESEARCN
1. Vehicles & Equipmet        293.77   31.00    6.24   193.81    6.24       531L06  3.0   522.60       99
2. Construction                107.20   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        187.20  1.0   112.32       60
3. Fuel & Lubricants            50.70  50.80   50.90   50.80   50.90        253.90   1.4   152.30      60
4. Other Operating Costs       101.15  101.15   101.15   101.15  101.15     S05.75  2.9   334.00       66
S. Local Personnel             110.70  110.70  110.70  110.70  110.70       553.50  3.1       0.00      0
Sob-Tvtal(Ezt..Tr9.&Res.l      743.52  293.65  268.99  456.46  268.89    2031.41  11.4  1121.22        55
C. SEED FARM & TREATNENT PLAKT
1. Vehicles n   Equipment      22.88   6.71    6.86       9.15    0.00      135.63  0.8   135.63    100
2. Fuel & Lubricants            75.50   77.30    79.10   80.70   90.70      393.30   2.2   236.00      60
3. Seed Fare Inputs             67.47   87.86  109.92   120.76   115.95     500.96   2.9   450.97      90
4. Other Operating Costs       347.00  169.70  352.60  174.70  174.70    1218.70   6.8  1100.00        90
5. Local Personnel              37.15  39.45   41.75   43.65   43.65        205.65   1.1      0.00      0
Sub-Total (Se  Prdon. Unitl    550.00 471.05  599.23  428.96   415.00    2454.24  13.7  IZ2.50         78
D. AURAL VO0CS& EIUIP.NIITENAICE
1. Vehicles & Equipment       471.40   40.90    32.20   31.70    11.30      594.50  3.3   561.30       94
2. Fuel & Lubricants           103.30  103.30   94.90   94.90   90.50       486.90   2.7   292.20      60
3. Other Operating Casts       259.80  259.80  233.40  233.40  223.50      1209.90   6.9   904.90      75
4. Local Personnel              63.90   63.90     .      63.90    63.90     319.50   1.8      0.00      0
Sub-Total(Rural  arwks& Iaint.)  898.40 467.90   424.40   423.90   396.20    2610.80  14.6  1758.40    67
E. LIAS1 OFFICE(COMMAYRT
1. Vehicles & Equipmwnt        21.94    7.94     1.04    9.9      1.04       40.90  0.2    35.82       99
PA A    20-ct-95



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
GUINEA
6UECKEWU AGRICULTUAIL BEVELOPIENT PROECT
PROJECT COST StUARY (DPhR6)
py     py       PT      PT      PY        TOTAL  I 8ASE FOREI6N  FOREIGN
1      2       3        4       5        COSTS  COSTS  COSTS   CSTS
1986   1987   198    199        1990    ('OOOUS S)     ( OOOUS S)  Z
2. Fuel P Lubricants            4.50   4.50    4.50    4.50    4.50        22.50  0.1    13.50       60
3. Other Operating Costs        1.35   8.35    8.35    8.35    8.35        41.75  0.2    21.60       52
4. Local Personnel              2.50   2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50        12.50  0.1      0.00      0
Sub-Total (Liason Office)      37.29  23.19   16.39   24.29   16.39       117.55  0.7    70.92       60
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTMNCE
1. Resident Experts           660.00 69.14  638.14  423.07  315.54    2674.99 14.9  2674.89    100
2. Consultats                  56.20  70.20   70.20   56.20   42.10       294.90   1.6   294.90    100
3. Audit                       26.00  26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00       130.00  0.7   130.00    100
4. Studies                      0.00  150.00   40.00  430.00    0.00      620.00  3.5   620.00    100
Sub-Total(Techn. Assistance)   742.20 984.34  774.34  935.27  383.64    3719.79 20.1  3719.79    100
S. FELOLISHIPS
1. Nedime Tera                 25.00  25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00       125.00  0.7   125.00    100
2. Short Term                  55.00  55.00   55.0    55.00   55.00       275.00   1.5   275.00    100
Sub-Total (Fellowships)       90D.00  80.00   00.00   80.00   80.00       400.00  2.2   400.00    100
H. AGRICULTIRAL CREDIT
1. Fertilizer                 79.00 236.40  484.30  772.90  1122.90    2695.40 15.1  2425.34        90
2. SeWs                         9.60  16.90   42.40   89.50  132.70       290.00   1.6    19.10      7
3. Small ToolS                 71.10  92.00   143.90   161.60   160.00    628.50  3.5   628.50    100
4. Equipuent.Truck,Ceeent      40.64  40.64   40.64   40.64   40.64       203.20  1.1   201.20       99
5. Labor                        9.00   9.00    15.00   15.00   12.00       60.00  0.3      0.00      0
Sib-Total (Agric. Creditl     209.34 394.94  726.14  1079.54  1460.24    3977.10  21.7  3274.64      84
TorTA BASE COSTS             4595.90 2966.99 3205.92 3792.12 3341.90   17092.81 100.0  14148.47      79
Physical Contingencies       368.84 207.91  231.57  310.51  277.25    1396.08          1147.36      82
Price Contingencies
Local                192.61  241.40  381.81  560.82  750.88    2127.52            0.00       0
Foreign              305.74 402.84  681.50 1155.70 1270.60    3816.38           3816.38    100
Tot.Price Contingencies      496.35 644.24  1063.31  1716.52 2021.48    5943.90        3816.38     64
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          5462.99 3919.14 4500.80 5909.15 5640.71   25232.79        19112.21     76
APA A    20-Oct-85



- 65 -
MKIE 4-2
Page 1 of 2
UIIEA
QI   NOU  hRICULTIhL K0V8DPIIENT PUJECT
PROJECT COST SUMT (IICIENETIbL)
PY     P        Py      P        PY        TOTNI US FOREIU  FOREI1
1      2        3       4        5        COSTS  CUT1   COSTS   COSTS
1996   1987   193       1999    19       ('00OU *)      ('0w S)  I
A.  _WUENENT &  INIIISTRATION
1. Vehiclos & Equipmnt        193.03   36.32   31.33   61.90   20.72       343.20  2.1   326.04       95
2. Coostruction               699.12   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        699.12   4.3   516.96      74
3. Fuel I Labricats            78.30   78.30   79.30   78.30   78.30       391.50  2.4   234.90       60
4. Other Opwrating Costs      124.50  124.50  124.50  124.50   124.50      622.50  3.9   394.60       63
S. Local Persoul               24.60  24.60   24.60   24.60   24.60        123.00  0.9      0.00       0
6. Support for 1r. kv.        150.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        150.00  0.9   200.00    133
Sub-Total(Ngt. & Admin.)     1269.S5  213.72  259.73  299.20  248.12      2329.32  14.3  1672.20      72
L EXTEIEON,1RAINING LESEMN
I. Vebiclos & Eqipmnt         264.07   31.00    6.24   192.31    6.24      499.96  3.0   431.40       98
2. Cunstrnctio                '27.20   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        187.20   1.2   112.32      60
3. Fuel & Lbricants            37.00   37.10   37.10   37.10   37.10       185.40   1.1   111.20      60
4. Other Operating Casts       76.30   76.30   76.30   76.30   76.30       391.50  2.3   251.00       66
5. Locl Persmwl                72.70  72.70   72.70   72.70    72.70       363.50  2.2      0.00       0
Sub-Total(Ezt.,Trg .Rrs.l     637.2  217.10   192.34  369.41   192.34    1607.46  9.9   955.92        59
C. SEED FUAl & TREATHENT PLANT
1.  uaicles & Equipmt          22.80  92.14    6.96    9.15    0.00        131.03  0.8   131.03    100
2. Fuel & Lubricants           57.60  59.40   61.20   62.80   62.80        303.80  1.9  12.30        60
3. Sted Fars Inputs            67.47   07.86  109.92   120.76   115.95     500.96  3.1   45e.87       90
4. Otber Operating Costs      281.50  104.20  297.10   109.20  109.20      891.2D  5.5   913.30       92
5. Local Persnoel              19.70  22.00   24.30   26.20   26.20        118.40  0.7      0.00       0
Sub-TotallSmd Prodi. Unitl    449.15  315.60  498.39  329.11   314.15    1945.39  12.0  1592.50       el
D. RURAL ORKS& EIUIP.MAIITENUICE
1. Vehicles & Equipwnt        471.40   39.60   32.20   31.70   18.30       592.20  3.6   S59.00       9
2. Fuel   LUbricasts           95.90   5.90   77.50   77.50   73.10        399.9   2.5   240.00       60
3. Other Operating Costs      220.30 220.30  193.tO  193.90  114.00    1012.40  6.2   761.70          75
4. Local Persone               57.90  57.90   57.90   57.90   57.90        239.50   1.8     0.00       0
Sub-Totalfflral Ubrks& Naint.)  93s.50 402.70  361.50  361.00  333.30    2294.00  14.1  1560.70       60
E. LIASON OFFICE(COMAKRY)
1. Vehicls & Ecuipnt          21.94   1.04    1.04    9.9"      1.04       34.00  0.2    29.02       85
2. Fuel d    Lubricnts          2.40   2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40         12.00  0.1      7.20      60
VAPA A     2-Oct-95



- 66 -
AMEX 4-2
Page 2 ot 2
BUI9A
6UECKEDO AICULTWAL DEVELOPHET PROJECT
PROECT COST S    INNAY (ICREHETAL)
py     py      PY       py      PT        TOTAL  Z BASE FOREIGN FOREIGN
1      2       3        4       5       COSTS  COSTS  CT    COSTS
1986   197   1999    1m 9      19      (l'OWUS S       ('00OUS 4) 
3. Other OIiprating Costs      4.90   4.90    4.90    4.90    4.90        24.50  (.2    13.10      53
4. Local Persmna               0.90   O.K    0.80        O      0.80       4.00   .0      0.00      0
Sub-Total(Lieson Office)      30.04   9.14    9.14   17.04    9.14        74.50  0.5    49.32      66
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANE
1. Residmt Ezperts           660.00 638.14  638.14  423.07  315.54    2674.99 16.5  2674.39    100
2. Consltants                 56.20  70.20   70.20   56.20   42.10       294.90   1.8   294.90    100
3. AIdit                      26.00  26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00       130.00  0.8   130.00    100
4. Studies                     0.00  150.00   40.00  430.00    0.00      620.00  3.8   620.00    100
Sub-Total (Tchn. Assistace)   742.20 894.34  774.34  935.27  383.64    3719.79 22.9  3719.79    100
S. FELLONIPS
1. Hedium Term                25.00  25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00       125.00  0.9   125.0C    100
2. Short Tere                 55.00  55.00   55.00   55.00   55.00       275.00  1.7   275.00    100
Sub-TatallFellowsbips)        80.00  80.00   80.00   99.00   90.00       400.00  2.5   400.00    100
H. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
1. Fertilizer                 79.00 236.40  494.30  M.90  1122.90    2695.40  16.6  2425.B4        90
2. Seeds                       9.60  16.90   42.40  89.50  132.70        290.00  1.8    19.10       7
3. Small Tools                71.10  92.00  143.90  161.60  160.00       629.50  3.9   629.50    100
4. EquipmentlCement           40.64  40.64   40.64   40.64   40.64       203.20  1.3   201.20      9
5. Lior                        9.00   9.00   15.00   15.00   12.00        60.00  0.4      0.00      0
Sub-Total (Agric. Credit)    209.34 394.84  726.14  1079.54 1468.24    3977.10  23.9  3274.64      84
TOTAL BASE COSTS            4253.05 2617.44  990.57 3457.57 3029.93   16247.56 100.0 13215.07      81
Physical Cmotingencies      341.74 IW.13  207.21  285.23  253.12    1267.43          1054.02     83
Price Contingencies
LKcal                I5d.41  IB6.78  307.11  461.11  625.99    1739.40            0.00      0
Foreign              289.30 366-45  632.86  1084.63 1193.20    3556.44         3556.44    100
Tot.Price Contingencies     447.71  553.23  939.97  1545.74  1809.19    5295.94       3556.44     67
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         5042.50 3350.80 4037.75 5298.54 5091.24   22910.83        17925.53     78
NAPA A    20-Oct-B5



- 67 -
WIUEZ 4-3
Page I of 2
GUINEA
otIECWENU AGRICULTURtL   ELPEdN   PROJECT
RECURRENT CT SUIUIY (MIOR
PT     PY       PT      PY       Py        TOTAL  I BEAE FOREI1  FOREIGN
1      2        3       4        5        COSTS  COSTS  COSTS   COSTS
191    1997   199      1999    199o    ('OOOUS *)       ('00009 )  I
A.  _IEIEIIr  & AUUINISTRATIO
1. Veicles & Equipmnt          10.40  33.20    12.70   10.40    10.40       77.10  4.7    66.70       87
2. Fwl & Lubricants            19.00  19.00    19.00   19.00   19.00        95.00  5.8    57.00       60
3. Other Oparating Csts        27.50   27.50   27.50    27.50   27.50      137.50  8.4    85.10       62
4. Lucal Personel               8.60   9.60    8.60    9.60    8.60         43.00  2.6      0.00       0
Sub-Total Nt. & Admin.)        65.50  80.30   67.80   65.50   65.50        352.60 21.4   208.90       59
B. EXTEIN5ION,TRAINING WRSAR
1. Vehicles * Equipment        29.70   0.00    0.00    11.50    0.00        41.20  2.5    41.20    100
2. Fuel & Lubricants           13.70   13.70    13.70   13.70   13.70       68.50  4.2    41.10       60
3. Other Operating Casts       24.85  24.95   24.95   24.95   24.85        124.25  7.6    83.00       67
4. Loal Personaee              39.00  39.00   38.00   38.00   39.00        190.00 11.5      0.00       0
Sub-Total 1Ext.,Trq.&Res.)    106.25  76.55   76.55  SB.05    76.55        423.95 25.0   165.30       39
C. SEED FARN & TREATNT PLI
1. Vehicles 1 Equipment         0.00   4.60    0.00    0.00    0.00          4.60  0.3      A.60    ifO
2. Fuel & Lubricants           17.90  17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90         89.5D  5.4    53.70       60
3. Other Operating Costs       65.50  65.50   65.50   65.50   65.50        327.50  19.9   291.70      86
4. LKal Personnel              17.45  17.45   17.45   17.45   17.45         87.25  5.3      0.00       0
Sub-TotallSeed Prodn. Unitl    100.95 105.45  100.85  100.95   100.85      509.85 30.9   340.00       67
D. RURAL VCRKS EQUIP.NAINTENANCE
1. Vehicles & Equipment         0.00   2.30    0.00    0.00    0.00          2.30  0.1      2.30    100
2. Fuel & Lubricants           17.40  17.40   17.40   17.40   17.40         87.00  5.3    52.20       60
3. Other Operating Costs       39.50  39.50   39.50   39.50   39.50        197.50 12.0   143.20       73
4. Local Personnel              6.00   6.00    6.00    6.00    6.00         30.00  1.8      0.00       0
Sub-Total(Rural Norks& Naint.)  62.90  65.20   62.90   62.90   62.90       316.80  19.3   197.70      62
NAPA A    20-Oct-85



- 68 -
MEI 4-3
Page 2 of 2
0UCKEIOU USICULTUIEL EVELOPENT PROJECT
RECIIW  CoST SUbbURT (ORS1
PY     PY      PY       PY      PT       TOTAL  I ZAiE FREII   FOREIh
1      2       3        4       5       COSTS  COSTS  CBTSr   C0STS
1996   1997   199    1999    190        (000US *1      (loom S)  I
E. LIASO OFFICE(CONAKRYI
1. Vehiclus & Equipmnt         0.00   6.90    0.00    0.00    0.00         6.80  0.4      6.80    100
2. Fuel I Lubricats            2.10   2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10        10.50  0.6      6.30     60
3. Othwm Opwrating Costs       3.45   3.45    3.45    3.45    3.45        17.25  1.0      8.50     49
4. Loal Personnl               1.70   1.70    1.70    1.70    1.70         9.50  0.5      0.00      0
Sub-Total(Liato Office)        7.25   14.05    7.25    7.25    7.25       43.05  2.6    21.60      50
TOTAL SA6E RECURIENT COSTS   342.75 349.55  315.35  324.55  313.05    1645.25 100.0   933.40       57
Physical Contiiqmncin        27.10  27.78   24.36   25.29   24.13       128.65          93.34     73
Price ContingeKies
Local                 34.20  54.62   74.70    9.71   124.89    3S9.12            0.00       0
Forei- g              16.44  36.39   48.64   71.07   87.40       259.94        259.94    100
Tot.Price Coctingencies      50.64  91.01  123.34  170.71  212.29       648.06         259.4      40
TOTAL RECURREIIT COSTS       420.49 461.34  463.05  520.61  549.47    2421.96          1256.68     53
MPA A    20-Oct-95



IMxn mAICaLTuM Olt tu PMIJEfl
IN IT a"      _.tk    l t._ _._
11 6 .12111w
1k " I'                   Emtl~t. tr       SlutIYw
196
.0.                                              DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
i,                    6..3  1.
IV   ~~~641.5
.                                                                                                 .             _                               _5
---                            $.6              1.9
If                    6.3               2.2
111                    0.4              2.1                           f               oject                                 W.A. Ar
I V:.3                                  2.9                                                                                Develop_el
-                         0.2              3.!
It                    6.4               3.5                                 2
III                    0.3              331
IV                    6.3               4.1
1991
-  1                  ~~~~0.2           6.3
_   I                 0.3               4.
III              6~~~.3            4.9
1V                    0.3              5.2
Iii              6~~. 4           1.2
19                    0.2               1.4
192                                                                                                                                              03  =
1               6.2              1,6 X0.
0
lb) Th 136 VWt Africa ArH Iswupet hiltwlcul profile us
MM1 led to rin4tuct tbv"W MplCI Weing tfuu 6 felt pta,,.



- 70 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
HIUTOCM IA      tt tEO  PM"Ln
7-
3 -
W.A. Az  DVsOIopat
I 
PYS    r7y
m&A FISCAL YErA
WAPA A
June 1985



CUINIEA
SECOND RICE DEVELOPME!Rr PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
| Directorate                                               EvlaioI-
Toclinical |I                                                                                           Finance a 
I Department   IA|minis tration 
|  aed               Crops            Trainl    Land                           Garage 
Produ :di           Research           Exton ion          Developunt
.4 Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
9 .14~~~~~~~~~"
I-~~~~~~41
15              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
faCdroueet                                                                                esn                Credig
ZONE I  |                            ZONE 2                          ZONE 3                                ZONE 4
Sector
Sub-sector
WAPA A
June 1985



- 72 -                                             Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 3
juiNEA
t3iECIEDGuO i, RICULTUAL DE'EL0UMENT >;ajEcT
FFOJECE  PRODUCTION 5lA;iiV
rhvsica21 ['ata                 *   fry  trl   ir    jr        Yr4   vr5   vrb    trl   VrE .      r9    briG   'ril YrlI1
~.;CE' PADDYi 
Sampp r ic e
4rea Develoient,tN.                                           I..   :.' -3)) '-    - ,,   ,'   ;4, 3.) )   :  X  3       ;
*      .      .      .     ;    :.     .0    :ci: ..o    :o    ZOOi  300.  :;o.| so.Ji"( ;o
*  -        5"3   500   5'!    50')   5')'i 500C
., i;!  )'    $20-   5 jr   50;0   500'  500   5'??   3-0
40   £00)   4%    4,A)  450   4')   40')   400
,reS E-'ccbe-Ccp,Sed(ha.i  *                         ;si5   :      6     t       5 i;         60    6'?    ^)    tO
,J    3 j,          tO     JO;)   60    6')   ,')    °0
*                                       25,i   5')   100   10o    100   10')  i1%J  1 60
25    50   100W   100   1.30   1        100
*§ 20 40      60    SO    20    80
*-300   6)0  1115  1645  2115   Q1 5  2290  23-0i  2400  2;400  3400  .400
4
'!eid*.tonrWs-hai               *  ;j..75   i. 3    I.:    6    2 j   3   2.5   2.5   2.0    .5   2.6   2.8   2.8   2.a
----------                                         4Z                   IC.* it  7j '')  O0  4.   :50   640   540   840   840   640   640
*                50    6~~~~~~~~00   eSO   7,50   750I   20    840   84    640   64
*                        GJi   9O  i1¼i       I :15')  1250  i:s:'   400  14:50  1400  1400
-54   ¾ 00.  ii50 SO   25(  1250  14010  14C0')  1400
*                   ~0    '0   600 o                          0  1000  IdOd  I120  1120
-                         :      t    130 5;1  5;   168   1-9   166   168   16a   168
o    15 I0 10   166   168   IB    168   168
9 - i5   2                 BO 2.30   260   28O
*                                              'Ci   !Ci0   2     250      0   20 'i    .360
*                                                     ;?    -z   200       -0   224   224
---          -- -  - -       - - - -      - -  - -     - -   -- - -  ---    -- -  -  -
r. F:ttTi1nnv.r                                                       i&zi ;!7      5R: ~0 6  63   a576  6~06720j
T. .,.-. -x¶;c, t!  oro:t~l        .    -"       :     ;: '  -fl   ;1.-  ib ;'      .  -2;2':  IA ":  ~:9Q 5iS  :29')  nv's
t[cr te*|nt<i F-raiujcccr.t2rs..           155    EO '3   I.  .'  .wi_ c            4.013  £528  4 5;576  5220  5220
.;- i  .'.o    1.24   1.3_    135   i. ;2  2.0.4  2.12 . . 19   2.18
,Ic *asi-rice 
;rea ileteic2n1the.,            +         iW*''  53&   2550 ISroSO i20.0           !2 '    :1                 1920Q1 19200
ueie to^sna.i                   * -.        '     .25  1 . 25  1.25  1.25  1.25  1.25  1.2'  1.25  1.25  1.25  1.25
ri-cemental P raductaei4tons '                    -8 256   24  7524 lt.5:'? 1;056c. lSO 1!56  10560 1;0560 W:56O  10560
TOT, ;iE FRODIN..1I i ,C9EEhT1 L,T           :c ;l8 C.-        2763 i-E9;  1655M 14573 15068 15456 15656 15TT50 15790
_--  _ _ _                                                     J _             I __             __              _  _   _



- 73 -                                       Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 3
Uidls4
EIECKE&U ;gFICaT;;;.-L COEv.EL ,FF     F     JECT
:::jECT 2:G[rC1Z?J SiPAPI
Physical  Data               *   trO  Vrl   fr.   1r3  4fr4  Y'r5   Yr6   ;r47   45         r9   irIO  Frii vrl7
____                ~~~~*
Area Develafhent(ha.e                    50     50   5')   50    5       5      50    50 S0 5-0    50    504
*                3S00   30   -300  3'2'   3001;   200   3050   3      300   4N 300   M
*                        B500   ')   :*-   500)  500  '500   500    500   50    5
*                             550   551'0  550   550   550   550   551   550   550
*                                   6?0   60') ONO   60   600)  600   600   J00
*          S    4 «50   950  1400  2AM2  200) 2000  20G  2000  209i0  2900  2-300
YieltersosIhs .)              *  G.25  3.45  0.55  0.60  0.60  0.6' )  0.60  C.60  :. 50  0.60  0.:0 .6i  (.60
incresental Production (tons'#
-0    15  j-7.5   75  17.5  ;7.5    17.5  1,.S  17.5  17.5  17,.5  17.5
-                 60    90   lS   10s5   105   l*5   105   105   log   1'5   105
*100   [50   it5   175   175   175   175   17    17_5  175
110   165 RI    1392.5 192.5 192.5 I:,.5 g  2.3 192.5
120   166   210   -iO   210   210   210   210
*D    0' 75 2!.37.5 38.  52.5   JO    70  700   770    700   700   700
Area Devegiaterf;.T'.                          ZS.    , 8  .  2  '0 1 0 1 i ' 274) :4.)  Z_7.   2740  27r;  _ 2740   24' .-
#ie1d(tat5Cha.i              .     .4     S            6     6 ,          2 ^          2     2   6        Ga
IncreMrtai Aroductiron.tor,,i-                     324                  ---(- --  -) 2- -   -a   C4t  ;t
  ---- ----
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   Zi    4.....    ...   ..                           .      Li   C._  -.i
4rea )Xeve;-aaentitr.)        *          .0    _v    _C    _O    _O;    --             0 '          0      0     0
*     *     4S,^   *;3   +- 8    -;   r! o   f ;          Q 0    ! 
*                 tv   ..,           F     40) 5.    A-|   _Ci
*                          ;;   A   IS0 4   ;0 j5J ,: ;3    2    L5;   '3   0  '
*                                   160  160   1'^   160   160  1I')  16I0        C
t                 -- --  -         ---__ - --_    _                   ____
*          2;    60   14')  30';^)   60  ;460 4        440   400)  :23   15'    0
Yield(tons-h&'               * v.fJ7 .,l 7 .6 .4  I  .. '2    0.2              *s.@
Predcutior.                   I
______ _0+    .8   2 _   5      4     5      :     :     0      0     0      0     '3
*      9                 9- ±.~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 4    10  I    2:           0      0     0      0
*                      - -    t      - ,    . .*  -  j-               X   
3.       £0     I     A     I      1         0         0
t~~~~-   y. j Gi  :1   i  
4 :.  !  i               32      0     O
*                                   6. 4    16    *     32    40    _2   32        0
-------------- --- -----    --- --- - --- - -     --- ---
T. Prduction4witn orejeCt) a             .    23   12.2  28.4  515. 4    2;6   14    ?6    Si    6;    32        0
(withaut DroJect*i          1.4   C.       9  :..6    LB9 ".4                                 O   0  0  0
4
Incresentil ?rodaductontonsi+          -0.6  -'. 6   2.4        -27.4  :3.5. s.i  -    .s i   8     4    32      '.0



Annex 6-1
- 74 -
Page 3 of 3
?E.E~   FROuNCTZIN  SOLi.RY
F'nyfx.aI _ta                      Y rO    -rl   I rZ _    Yr    Yr4   Yr'  Yr6  'Yrr    7rB   'r?   YrAq  irfl  r!Z*
----------- - --------------4-A_______________                                    ______                   _AA__
l 'iantatian CEofuee
A.rea befeioe;.ent(ha ......... * 3              .   ~i    5Dv 5v  v           'i;3 50    50    50    so    '
*~~~~~ -3   .,o w               o _2O _      ~         2i   .o   :o _w  X z *  3
i~~~~~ -                      .A   ... ~'    a    _0   v,50   5G    -i  4 
*                                    ;i    :a i. ,;*  iGG        .O     n
*                 5?3  :ej  /A00  i-)'l@  j03a3  .0450  1020  1i00  1000  !00u       . .
.   .    e;   .   .   t   X  s . ; . . _ v . .^ . a _ . . 5 X o 5 ; :; 0   i  756 Q   5
*.5  _.D      t30  :2.5    Za  :2.5  S2._      :0  32.5
-                                      0    5iG    90   130   100   I-6    50    30
4                                          17.5  37.5   !40 227.5   .75 227.5  B7.5
-                                                  20   103   160   26-  2:04   260
T. PrWudtir(vith -roject) +                 0     v      il  _.5  :2.5    .5 _3 2*)   35   570 577.5 497.5   460
4
T.rcFF~ec?-.eN;.i! EENr.-  E-i T.- 4      .      e     .4  11.   49.; !-51.1  iZ..    4 ;91   609 641.5 5:9.5   460
WAPA A
June i985



- 75 -
6UIME4                                                  Annex 6-2
Page 1 of 3
6UECrEHhU ASMI2IL-TUL DEVELOCNE5T PFGiECT
F4AN  EN MEEWISE SUDGET
:P 'rct are-isce,
*  .-ajjt:oraJ    4                           *. ¶trazv:onal                          lsrzved rv sitna
*   dcland Y'     I        rl e-i rvl .m o: go    as4;cr.          *
*                 4                           44                   4
Constant iq5 arLcfl-;vi;s   t            pYO       *  PV      P'2   PV>        n        P*Q i        PFY       Fv-    Fri    pVL    Pv5    FY.   PV7'
Pbwszcal Dati                   *
PI=-jcL-                                                      S! 4  440                   4             .      4        .
4reaih.}                      .        :.x;-    *  :.3S:  .;e    :.';i    *.           .;.0      *  ,.;?    :.-;o    ;.O5    MOl   ;.       :.:1    :.:;
YigDE-tcns;:                                                ... -                         5   *  1. .B .. 5                          2.5 E           LB
PflaXr k-::e.EXiLs;L:.    *               :r     *    45      :5      55    .e           £       *    s3       4'      53       '      4s      45      r
3 ! ;^S'aSu                             -P      EJ '-- st  ,:!   _C5         *4       -  :C      * SS?  ~l-2O   oAo  +o5    :12%.wEil U% *;;w  w; -- #4
_;W-* a-:a.s   *            !3-zaS I'   *1aMS                      *                         Nanl-ays
L  a                                          4*                   4
an-i F rfega zllh:                                                     $ "t                      *    £        5       45 ,5 Jq                k       J
iIrS 5t                            '            *             : -.          -'                  4      -       7      .A      10              10' i   10
-                              :2      *      0~~~~~~~~~~~:    20  22  :'   :0      23      25
r?Cat:                                                                                  a£ *                           a               a       e       i
urIt;ISr 4mlgiratzc:         4 *           *          !       ;       i    4-            ;      *      Z       2       3       3       3       3
>enla1  Tr!atmat                                                                                        :                               J - '  . _      j
.-:flscarei2-wJnt :rt-ct   '                     *                                                              ;5 5  15  ;5    1 '   0   ;     0          20
*.1    *    -r  -r     15      *    2:      26    ~~~      ~~~~40  4&  5o   59    596
-l'9e5t::t5 ~ ~ ~ *-                                --r ---         _ .    44,         v                    4  
!r. esha.1q:i ui¶        ~; 1. 3*: ;                 :e      ::      ::    tt           ::      a    ;r        4      29      54     so      40       43
*ctat Lflv  sar-fI-s-                                                       e :-    *    4  :k  :-  t  :_  *   z0    GI1   ZU  :9 2;   7     "2      2
_                 4                            X4                  4
2w-au   -   4ec:-nt          *                  '                            4 
_                 4                           44;
e-            i-3.           *4         4J    *    o'        : s     -     *            :r£    *4 5            5      4i      r.     :4       4      54
..   *2-. -        *                 .~  : -t              :v                              -         e     .l       e5     ;i      : 
*rt:1;:                    * .'                                                ..                     ,     .       -,       .           ,4
l-t:-         5~                                                   -t   54                                          , *      ,V  :          2
-2e                               '                                *                               :-    z-: :*;                                 .
.::::1:::    *:            *            .     *      .-:   *-                           _      *             4a                                      e
- -r                     *                 *              ;                                 4i
4^e,e-  ~            *               &     -+                                  : 44:
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.
trPtz'          ~*                  *                           .
zIc?tei                 a                                               .                                          
alneflr-:-              *          .                                   *4.... .. 



- 76 -
SUIlEn                                               Annex 6-2
RiED!EDGU Q-9ICULTUOAL j';E!E2PIEWT PPO;ECT                       Page  2  of  3
:'UP ENTEFPRSE 303DGET
PLor Nuectare-Pt:e'
------ --- - - ------------------------ -------------.- -------                                                      ------
:Onstant 1--5 :rLt5-3,siz5 iP3s                    PtI,   :v:  YP.                               --* VI    PCP    ZVI    F/4    OV     FitVe':r
 - --     4---------------   ------------ ----4                            --------4------- -------- 
:IFUT  SiEE     .S1i; Per UaI:                 4                          *4 
Fertil::                     I4 4r
./fli    :7-r c.a      *           ;     *    :       o      :,                D;*          :;~            :;1    %0      go      t)     -
Vent::zleg   ..:r ka.J                                                   to>   .>  ~ .  500  *   54             !;C-   500    500o   50      !OC
.Cec- ~ ~                  CS      *:Us£5            £        n        12        * iw IC!          >2:5    C!      L? i:! :_ ?.tz
ilt:'et                4                 *                                    5..  . Aso  *:5.30   :4`  :.!or   I50    :soo N   :soo0  M50
zges                                                 _ ::; *    : - S.o  :! Oo      :sO      zoo   MNo   :z;l  :Soo   :s5Co1   MY0@
Sho.ei  4            £                          4.       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6ZSG  4 ~Z &M 5 62 5 _0   6;N)   :12S7  e25')  *25
rtc~~~l**                                                     .        :75o,     *  no       m     no    _M.   no!%   75    311A
~~ ~~~  -                                    ..      :ars       * :1575~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    2197!  :t975. :1975l  Z27 2:l   19.
--    - -- -    - -- --  - -- --   --------------
- .                                                         2~~~~~~~~~~~:C.C. C C-;.750.        MeMC ~j   rsn -n.:n     ;,_R  LZ4WJO
*  * .          -.   ..        :;z       *           if-     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4"-   :'NO   :7t,; 26X
4       ...*.v .       *  ",    *~           ~~ ~~                  ~ ~~~~4  -  ..r  M:r  ;io0  2t130  21300A
!uc;s~                                4      -              r*--                                        z 
R, C el                                                                Tt-a        aC
:Z;,:-r    -O    -r    4                        -                   - 
*  -.  -  .     .   .---:,!2         :14-       ft:                                     7Z.-   C



77 -                                    Annex 6-2
GUINEA          Page  3  of 3
GUECKEDOU A6RICULTUR4L DEVEL PNENT PROJECT
FAPH ENTEcPPISE BUDGET
(Per Hlectare-R:ceC
G5tiT1OTES RIE FAPF 9;UDGET
N   h-ii.or.al outijvtiOrt uses local anisrovfed seds and r.c
-aDrLed :c.tivat;:an uisas iarevee seed variet:es and 'ertiluzer.
Z'        ;ur;-ces are takE  at a.   c--es arevi.Lrq as §. teq.anfl'   t1cE
It i:-At olres are :ai:Uat-. asn-ta an excnaiage rate of
:  tools are  aa   over i %neir c' vears,buit are :urchased ;or cash
or cre vear snrtt-terv  crnit.ThEus costs are ituted for the vear in
ih.bi  tNev occur.ror the 4ithout 2roject gituation.the tyalcal
;rmer is assumed to cossess the tocis irdicated ana hence in annual
cost Is ca;:aiated over the tool-s usefdl i$-e at an interest rate
o' :; nera   m:roe&eatctet-3yrs: axe-Svr: sfoveL-Ls: ptck-axe-Svr:
sicl!e-vr!E:%rf nu-.!a.d cbltlwatlc  fl-.es every ' -'s.
WAPA A
June 1985



- 78 -                                      Annex 6-3
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
SIECKEDOU  6RICULTUIAL uEUEL0RPENT FFCJECT
FOR ENTERPRISE B6UGET--COFFEE
Per Hectare- Cofiee                                                o Ctiiee  Rehabilitation
Ccnstanit 1985 orices-Sylis
*         FYO   FrI    ;r2        PV3    rY4      U        Y6
ygjsi ca: Data
Yieid-kq./ha                     *           70     40    100      250    200      i50    Lo0
Producer Price,Sylis/ka.         *          400    400    400      400    400      400    400
GROSS REVENUE(Sylis)                     29000  16000  40000  100000  90G0(   100000  60000
'LASR                                                              m Nan-days
Brushinq                         *           0      10      0        0       0       0       0
tree Feiling                     4           0      10      0        0       0       0       0
BurninglClearing                             0 0     0      0        0       0       0       0
Lining  Pegging                  *            0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Holing&Planting9                              0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Stumping                         *A ,,                       0       0       0       0       0
ieeding                                      is      9     12       12-    !2       12      12
ioice aoi     t                  * z0               10       5       d       t30  0  o
-ert:liser Apbolcation           *            0      2       2       2       2       2       2
.est Crontrol                                 0             I ,              b       0       0
Shade Reductjin                  *           0       3               0 0             0       0
Ct;ttira of SanDriwe             *                           6       0       0       0       0
4arvestz"q & Transoortira        *            4      2       3               5       e       5
drb:flo/zrSPa                    *            '-     '      2        g       4       3       4
:sta; uabor;iAan-da'vs;         *            .l     '       2       ';     23       23     2.-
!NiTS  F;er Hectare)             *
Seedlings    ino. )              *                   3      0        0       0       0       0
Fertilz:er
N.P.K   (ki.- i                               to1 ;0   0        O    1;0      100    190
Urea    (k.                 *           0       0      0        0      0        0      0
?otashZkg.                              0       0      0        0      0        0      0
ools 
-latchet                   *            2       2               2               2
Ahes                        *                   ;
PrtAninq Saw                                    I
Saud                       *



Annex 6-3
Page 2 of 2
UJINEA
6UECIIEOOU ARICLTUIEIL DEVELOPRENT PROJECT
Fll ENTEPISE SUDET-COFFEE
Per NKctart- Coff.                C                            Coffn u lehbilitation
Constant 1985 prims-Sylis
PWO    PYI    PT,     PYS    PY4      PY5    P16
IIUT PRICES (Sylis Per Unit) a
Seedlings    (per 10001                      0      0      0       0       0       0      0
Fertilizer                      I
I.P.K   (per kg.)          *         tOo    t00    100      100    100      100    100
Ure     Iper tk.)          *          90     Y0      90      90     90       90     90
Potash  lper kg.1          *          60     60      60      60     60       60     60
Tools                           I
.atchet                    4        1625   1625   1625    1625   1625    1625   1625
Axes                       *        2500   2500   2500    2500   2500    2500   2500
Pruning Sawe                        3125   3125   3125    3125   3125    3125   3125
Spud                       *        2500   2500   2500    2500   2500    2500   2500
VLAL  OF PRODUCTION                     ' 28000  16000  40000  100000  900    100000  90000
PRODUCT ION CWSTS 
See                        Ic                 0       0       a      0        0      0
Fertilizer                 *           0  10000  10000   10000  10000   10000  ;0000
Tools                      I        3750   9975       0    3250      0    3250       0
Total Costs                   I        3250  [8E75  10000   13250  10000   13250  10000
Goss MMARGIN                    *       24750  -2975  30000   66750  70000   86750  70000
GROSS 4AR61N /IIN-DAY           *         1179    -36    939    37'2  3043    3712   3043
FOOTNOTES
il) PYO is considered the situation dithout project ior rehabiltation.
(2) Fertilizer recougendations are still tentative to be refined 'an
course of project execution.
(3) Output prices are taken at 400Sylisikg even thouqh farmoate budget
calculdtions show orices of at least over 50OSvlis/kg.
i4) Tools are used over a nudber of years,but are purchased for cash or
one year credit.Thus costs are itauted for the year in which they
occur.For the mithoat project situation the farmr is assuned to
purchase 2 uatchets each yr  for weding.
WAPA A
June 1985



- 80 -                                     Annex 6-4
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
6UECKOEUJ AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
FARN ENTERPRISE BUDGET--COFFEE
Per Nectare- Coffee                  is                                Noe Coffee  Plantation
Constant 1995 prices-Sylis           tt
is      PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4   PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9   PYIl
Physical Data                        tl
Yiuld-kg./ha                       is        0       0     50    250    400    650    500    200    400    500
Producer Price,Sylis/kg.           It      400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
OM955 REVENiEISylis)               is        0       0  20000 100000 140000 260000 200000  90000 160000 200000
LAMIR                              It                                        Nan-days
Brushing                           St       20       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Tree Felling                       I2       25       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Burning/Clearing                   is       20       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Lining & Pegging                   is       10       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Holing & Planting                  3t       25       3      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Stumping                          It         0       0      0      1       1      6      6      6       6      0
Needing                            33       10      15     15     15      10     10     10      10     10     10
Choice of Shoots                   It        0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Fertiliser Application             It        2       3      3      3       3      3      3       3      3      3
Pest Control                       is        0       2      2      2       2      2      2       2      2      2
Shade Reduction                    Is        0       2      2      3       3      3      3       3      3      3
Cutting of Sap Orawer              Is        0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Harvesting & Transporting          Is        0       0      3     10      16     26     20       8     16     20
Drying/Caring                      It        0       0      2      5       8     13     10       4      8     10
3s
Total Laborlian-days)              of      112      25     27     39      43     63     54      36     48     48
is
INPUTS (Per Hectare)               is
St
Seedlings    (no.)                 Is     1400    150       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Fertilizer                        it
N.P.K   (kg.)                 Is      100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
Urea    (kg.)                 Is        0      50     50     50     50      S0     S0     50      50     50
Potash  (kg.)                 Is        0       0      0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0
Tools                              3t
Hatchet                      I3         2              2             2              2              2
Axes                         It         2                                    1
Pruning Saw                   I8                                             I
Spud                          is        1



Annex 6-4
- 81 -
Page 2 of 2
UINA
FM E0U    RISE UUDGET-COFFEE
Per Nctar.- Coffn *u                                                   m Cuffn  Flltatit
Ccostat I195 pricu-Sylis            is
to     PYI   PY2    PY3    PY4   Pm5    PY6    P7    P"I    Pm    PYIO
INUl PRICES (Sylis Per Unit)      88
Sudlings   (per 1000)             is     3500   3500   3500   3500   3500      3500  35      500   3500   3500
Fertilizer                        i1
N.P.K   (per kg.I            i       100    100    100    100    100    i0    100    100    100    100
Urn    (p  ikg.)             88       90     90     90      90     90     90     90      0     90     90
Potash (per kg.)              s       60     60     60      60     A0     60     60     0      60     f0
Tools                             It
_                        ~~~~~~~~~is
Hatchet                     8i      1625   165   1625   1625   1625   1625   1625   165   £625   1625
Axes                         St    2500   2500  2500   2500   2500   2500  2500   2500   2500   500
Pruning Si                   is    3125   3125   3125   3125   3125   3125   3125   3125   3125   3125
Spud                         it    2500   2500  2500  2500   2500  2500  2500   2500   2500   2500
It
W,UE OF PRODCTlDO                 St        0      0  20000 100000 160000 260000 200000 80000 160000 20
PRMOIICTI  COSTS                  It
Sed                          It    4900    525       0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0
Fertilizer                   St    10000  14500  14500  14500  14500  14500  14500  14500  1450O  14500
Tools                        St    10750      0   3250      0   3250   5625   3250       0   3250      0
Total Costs                     St   25650  15025  17750  14500  17M    20125  IMO  14500  17750  14500
mROSS _1IN                        St  -25650 -15025   2250  M500 1422SO 239875 1320  65500 142250 100
Is
6ROSS KISIN 1WDAY                 tJ    -229  -601       93  2192   3306   3        3375   1919   2964   3aW
St
(1) PYO is considered the s;uation without project for rehabiltation.
(2) Fertilizer recKouendations are still tentative to be refined in
course of projKt executin.
(3) Output prices are taken at lOOSylis/kg even thoqh faragate buidgt
calculations show prices of at least over SOOSylis/tg.
14) Tools are used over a number of years,but are purchased for casu or
one year cr.dit.Thus costs are impted for the year in which they
occur.For the uithout project sitution the farmer is assue  to
purchas  2 *atchets each year for  eeding.
WAPA A
June 1985



-  82  -                                       Annex 6-5
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
GUECKEDOU *GRICULTIEM. DEVL OPHENT PROJECT
FA.N r-ITE ISE MM
(Par Nbctarw-Srouadnuts I Cassava)
I Traditimnal       I                          It  Traditimal   t
I  Groudnmts        I  Improwed  ruunodnuts   8I   Cassava        I       lproved Casava
t                   t                          to                 t
I       PlO         t  PY1    P12    PY3#    St         P10       I   "Il   P12   P13n
Constant 1985 pricn-Sylis        I                                              S tt               t
Physical  ata                    t                   *                          IJ                  a
Irua(ba.)                     I        1.oo        a  z.0o   1.oo    1.00     is         z.oo    I   1.o    1.00   1.00
Yiwld-tons/ha                 1        0.25        8  0.45   0.55      0.6    I8          3.0    8    6.0    6.0    6.0
Producer Pricr,Sylis/ug.      t          72        t    72     72       72   I3            25    3     25      25     25
MM99  REVBE(Sylis)            I       1000         3 32400  39600   43200    1I         75000    3 130000 150000 150000
LAIN                          I a Ra-days         t          nt-days           o   Nam-days      t         Nan-days
a                   a                          to                  I
Land Cl urinn                            I 10     t    10      tO       10    is           30  8       35      35     35
Sud Pruparatian               t           3        t     3      3        3 8t               3   8       5       5      5
Sowing                        I           4        t     4      4        4    I3           10    1      12     12     12
Hoedine                       t          20        *    25     25       25S33              12  8        15     15      15
Fertilizer pplication         I                   t      I                    13            0    8       1      1      1
N  vusting I Transporting    t            6        t    11     13       15    i8           15    5     30      30     30
Threshingiung                 1           4       3      6      8       98 nt
J                   aI                         i8 
Total LLabr(m-days)           I          47       a    60      64      66    It            70    t     99      98     91
3                                              83 3t
IWTM  (Per Nhctare)           t                                               to                 I
t                                              i s3               I
Sow      (kg./OOO setts)      I          60        I    60     60      60      8            8    8      12     12     12
Fertilizer                    I                   3                           to                 8
Suerphosphate   (kg.)  I             0       3   100    100      100    to             0    I      0       0      0
Potasb    (kg.)          I           0       *      0      0       03 8                0         75      75     75
Tools                         t                   t                            3t                t
HI                       8           I       3     2               1    88             2    3      2              1
Ratchet                  I           1       t     2               1    3t            2    t       2              1
3                   t                          is                  I
IWUT PRICES (Sylis Per Unit)l                                                 i 13               t
t                                              i s3               a
Seed (per kg;/per '000 settsu)          100        I   too    100      100    to            0    8  17.5  197.5  I1J.5
Fertilizer                    I                    I                          t3 
Superphosphate (per kq.             75       t    75      75      75    I8            75    I     75      75     75
Potas      (per kg.)     '          65       t    65      65      65    St           65    *      65      65     65
Tools                         I                   t                           is                 t
NM                       1        1625       J  1625   1625    1625   8t           1625    1   1625   1625   1625
Ratchbt                  t        1500       8  1500   1500    1500    to           1500    8   1500   )500   1500
I4                      --1-                    -    -1S------



- 83  -                                  Annex  b-5
Page 2 of 2
*JIE*
GIJECKENOU IURICILTURL DEVELD        PRIJECT
FAfI EITERPRISE BUNET
(Per Hectare-Grouniauts I Casuva)
I Traditioaul      I                          tl  Traditional   I
I Broundists       I  Improved Grouninuts   t3   Cassva          I      Improved Casuva
I                  I                          is                 I
I       PYO        I  PI    PY2    PY3+    13         PYO        I  PYI   PY2   PY3+
Coutant 1985 prici-Sylis       I                   3                          It                 I
VAUIE  F PRMNICTION          I       IB000          32400  39600   43200    St       75000    1     1500005Isom  10000
PowUcno CoSTS                I                   *                          It                 I
S.d                     I        6000       I  6000   6000    6000    is            0    1  2250   2250   2250
Fertilizwr              I           0       *  7500   7500    7500    It            0    1  475S 47547S
Tols                         I                   *                          Is                I
Nnf                     t         653       * 3250       0  1 5    i             1307    t   3250       0   1625
Ratchet                 t         603          3000      0    1500   It          1206    8   3000       0 1500
9                  I                          is                 I
Tooli  Sub-Total              3        1257       *  6250      0    3125    St         2513    1   6250       0   3125
Total Costs                1        7251       t 19750  13500   16625    tl         2513    1  133      7125  10250
6R095 MEIN                 t       10743       * 12650  26100   26575    3t        72487    * 136625 14295 139750
MMUSS MAE1IN INAN-DAY        t         229       *   211    408     403    St         1036    1   1394   1459   1426
WAPA A
June 1985



- 84 -
Annex 7-1
Page i of 2
GUINEA
SECOND RICF. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND PARAMETERS USED IN FCONOMIC ANALYSIS
Item              Goods                    Treatment/Remarks
Base Case                                   The base case for the economic
analysis considers only the
activities technically tested in
Guinea and thus includes only rice
production and coffee plantation.
Coffee regeneration, ground- .c and
cassava production are excluded
there being pilot activities. For
this base case, 202 of total project
non-input costs are considered to be
related to the pilot activities and
hence only 80X of these costs are
used in the base case economic
analysis.
Prices            rice, coffee              Input and output prices for
fertilizer               fertilizer, rice and coffee,
constant 1985 border prices using
Bank commodity price projections
deflated by Bank price indices of
international manufactured goods.
Prices assumed constant after 1995.
Groundnuts, cassava      Observed time weighted local free
other inputs             trade prices used in the sensitivity
analysis. Prices assumed constant
throughout.
Exchange Rate                              All prices and costs converted
using an estimated equilibrium
exchange rate of 250 Sylis - US$1.
Costs                                      All costs, including technical
assistance, studies and road
construction and maintenance program
taken into account. Costs include
physical contingencies of 0I on all
non-personne3 costs for first 5
years. Cost for maintenance of



- 85 -
Annex 7-1
Page 2 of 2
project infrastructure, extension
ar,c, otlier i'spport personnel, and
rep3aceme.:- of project vehic]es
and equipmeait Included to year 20.
Labor                                      Incremental farm labor valued at 200
Sylis/man-day; average of observed
wage rates in project area.
Project Life                               20 years ; with no residual values.
Road Construction Program                  Costed fully for first five years of
project but no additional benefits
attributed. Some road maintenance
costs are included after year 5.



- 86 -
Annex 7-2
6UIIEA
6UECKED AGRIOCULTURAL DEVELPNENIT PADECT
ERR-S [TIVITV AMYSES
B.TOTAL  UP 101  UPWM    UPx SM DOW  10O DM  20  NOS 5'   LAS I YR. LS 3 V.
C.TOTAL        23.4    27.3    31.0    41.7       19.3      14.9     -3.6       16.9        9.7
UP 1O0         19.7    23.4    26.9    36.9       15.9      11.5     -9.4      14.2         7.7
LP 201         16.5    20.0    23.4    32.3       12.6      9.3        -        11.6        5.7
UP 501          9.3    11.8    15.0    23.4        4.4     -0.5        -        5.0         0.4
DOW I01        27.7    31.8    35.8    47.5       23.4     18.9       1.3      20.0        11.9
DONN 201       32.0    37.3    41.7    54.6       28.2     23.4       5.9      23.6        14.4
DOW s0o        58.9    65.6    72.3    93.0       52.0     45.2      23.4      39.4        24.2
WAPA A
June 198.



GUINEA                                                                                          ."
GUECKEDOU                                                                                 ,
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  |. .  )                                          -              -.
PROJECT AREA                                                                J                       .f
/                    IO^"lOWItl^Gl  ,1.-                  . -et   /  I   - 6   I    A
~yAVIDAO                                      / 'I7 
rv Mg ftv  S  I                                         E R R                                                  A
hv_S_ Mw   iF -                                                                                            .
Dv W-f ft I"g~~~/                                           p                       I       2           -~- 
*,,,,,,   S I E R  R A   w F L E O  N  E                                                              ELI BE  RI A
n,f  _ ._  0*   V  f 1
'ne  *,, wz - # -, t1W
..                                                                                                  _ .__
WAW"
ei:.I.?~ ~ ~ ,t 



t#--ait~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
KtOA Pi  ROJEtE  >    
Ocea2n    CW"0o4z< /S%  <  J7f-d     .
tRtD H.a 3 wtXl~~ E R R A L E O N E   ' 4\-          4
CUtN.^ 9 --- ~~~~~~~-_- ' iA <~~r
oUsCKEnaU AaR"oULTUR^   "_^"_-   ~~~~~~~~~~~r  ;    w7_ X   ..... 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cg   rf ,orm <dw12>



