CREDIT NUMBER 1635 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Gueckedon Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 198


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1635 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated &,-     nJ^   L                      , 1985
between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan) in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called IFAD) a
loan (hereinafter called the IFAD Loan) in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the IFAD Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
mert Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the Gen-
eral Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "MDR" means MinistAre    du  Dfveloppement Rural, the
Borrower's Ministry responsible for agricultural developme,t;
(c) "DPDRG" means the Direction Pr6fectorale de Dfveloppe-
ment Rural de Gueckedou, a directorate having full jurisdiction
for agricultural matters in the Project Area;
(d) "Project Area" means the Prefecture of Gueckedou and
the two "sous-prAfectures" located in the southern part of the
Kissidougou prdfecture in the Faranah province;
(e) "ONADER" means Opgration Nationale pour le Ddveloppe-
ment de la Riziculture, a department established within MDR
under the Rice Development Project (Credit No. 952 GUI);
(f) "Rice Development Project" means the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, dated Novem-
ber 2, 1979, between the Borrower and the Association;
(g) "ORG" means Opfration Riz Gueckedou, a managerially
autonomous agency established under the Rice Development Project;
(h) "Revolving Fund" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(i) "ACU" means Agricultural Credit Unit, a unit estab-
lished within DPDRG to manage the distribution of agricultural
credit and inputs under the Project;
(j) "Credit Fund" means the account to be established
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(k) "PROSECO" means Entreprise Nationale de Commercialisa-
tion des Produits Secs; and
(1) "Syli" or the sign "GS" means the currency of the Bor-
rower.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
S;)ction 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1996, and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
DPDRG, under the overall responsibility of MDR, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section with regard to
the provision of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i) (A) open and thereafter maintain in the Borrower's
currency and in the name of DPDRG an account (the
Revolving Fund) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and
(B) deposit into the Revolving Fund an initial
amount   equivalent  to   three  hundred   thousand
dollars ($300,000);


﻿- 5 -
(ii) thereafter, deposit into the Revolving Fund on the
first day of each calendar quarter an amount
equivalent   to  the   estimated  expenditures   in
respect of the Project during that quarter as
determined by DPDRG; and
(iii)  take all necessary measures to ensure that DPDRG
has continuous access to foreign exchange neces-
sary to finance the recurrent cost of agricultural
input, during years 4 and 5 of Project implementa-
tion.
(c) Amounts deposited in the Revolving Fund pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used only to make payments
to meet local expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) merge ORG into DPDRG and
thereafter maintain DPDRG with functions, responsibilities and
staff in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) appoint and maintain at all times as Director of DPDRG a
Guinean national whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association; (iii) maintain in Conakry, the
liaison office established under the Rice Development Project
with full responsibility for the coordination of and follow-up
on all procurement of goods and services for the Project and
communications with central Ministries and other governmental
agencies; and (iv) appoint as head of the liaison office a
Guinean national whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Association and assign to the liaison office
full-time support staff composed of a clerk, a secretary, a
driver and a storekeeper.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to facilitate the work of the consultants and special-
ists (including consulting and training firms or agencies)
employed for purposes of the Project and make available to them,
as and when needed, all information, office equipment and sup-
plies required for such work.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the consultants and specia-
lists referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement to participate
actively in the training activities and programs organized for
local staff under the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) establish simul-
taneously with DPDRG, and thereafter maintain within DPDRG, an
Agricultural Credit Unit to be operated in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and
(b) ensure that ACU open not later than the date on which
the Revolving Fund referred to in Section 3.01 (b) is opened, and
thereafter maintain an account (hereinafter called the Credit
Fund) and deposit into the Credit Fund, the repayment by farmers
of credit made available to them under the Project and the pro-
ceeds of inputs sold by ACU.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that all agricultural inputs, including seeds and
fertilizers, are sold to farmers at prices reflecting their
actual cost.
Section  3.06. (a) Before awarding any fellowship under
Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion for its approval the qualifications of the candidates for
such fellowships and the program of studies to be followed by
them.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
secure the services of fellowship recipients for at least three
years in the position for which they shall have been trained.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, and consultants' services re-
quired for the Project, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 7-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account and
the Credit Fund, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to provide farmers with appropriate incentives necessary to in-
crease farmers' productivity. In particular, the Borrower shall:
(a) permit private trading in agricultural produce,includ-
ing rice and coffee, throughout Guinea at all times;
(b) each year not later than March 31, review with the
Association the levels of agricultural prices and in particular
the prices of rice and coffee;
(c) not subsidize imported rice; and
(d) permit private- traders to buy freely coffee produce
from farmers for sale to PROSECO at prices equivalent to at least
80% of the international price of coffee.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall ensure that roads, canals
and bunds constructed or rehabilitated under the Project shall be
maintained with diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate road engineering, economic, financial and administra-
tive practices.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) DPDRG shall have been abolished or kts organization and
responsibilities shall have been amended in such way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;
and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the ADF Loan Agreement has been duly signed and condi-
tions precedent to initial disbursement, if any, under said
agreement, save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled;
(b) the IFAD Loan Agreement has been duly signed and condi-
tions precedent to initial disbursement, if any, under said
agreement, save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled;
(c) the Prefectoral director referred to in Section 3.02
(ii) of this Agreement has been appointed;
(d) the Revolving Fund referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement has been opened and the initial deposit has been
made in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
(e) the contracts for experts and consultants' services
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been signed; and
(f) ACU has been established and arrangements satisfactory
to the Association have been made for its management.
Section 7.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Rural Development is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist?re du Dveloppement Rural
B.P. 576
Conakry
R6publique de Guin6e
Cable address:
MIDORAL
Conakry
For the Association:
International Developmcnt Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        Ld
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Alloca-
ted (Expressed           % of
in SDR equiva-       Expenditures
Category                    lent)           to be financed
(1) Equipment,                 2,850,000         100% of foreign
vehicles,                                   expenditures
spare parts,
furniture
and supplies
(2) Agricultural                 310,000         100% of foreign
inputs                                      expenditures
(3) Technical                  3,040,000         100% of foreign
Assistance                                  expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  500,000
Total                     6,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase the pro-
duction of rice and other food or cash crops by smallholder
farmers in the Project Area; (ii) to strengthen the capabilities
of the Borrower's directorate responsible for agricultural ser-
vices in the Gueckedou region; and (iii) to introduce improved
agricultural seed varieties, improved agricultural techniques and
agricultural credit to farmers in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of DPDRG
Streamlining of DPDRG's internal organization and
strengthening of its capabilities to implement, super-
vise and monitor agricultural development projects,
through provision of technical assistance and training
of local counterparts.
Part B:   Improvement of Productivity
(i) Carrying out of extension activities, establish-
ment of extension zones and appointment of staff
responsible for activities to be undertaken in the
extension zones.
(ii) Carrying   out of applied    research  to  identify
improved seed varieties and fertilizers suitable
for improving production for swamp and upland rice
varieties, cassava, maize and groundnut in the
Project Area.
(iii) Production of improved seeds including rice and
groundnut seeds and coffee and cassava seedlings.
(iv) Introduction    of  improved   seed  varieties   and
improved agricultural techniques, training of
trainers and training of farmers, men and women,
in matters related to the use of improved agri-
cultural techniques and farming practices.


﻿- 14 -
(v) Carrying out of a pilot project for the improve-
ment of coffee, groundnut and cassava cultivation.
Part C:   Improvement of Rural Infrastructure
(i) Construction of canals and bunds necessary for
swamp improvement.
(ii) Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
feeder roads in the Project Area.
(iii) Construction   of  housing, offices    and  storage
facilities in extensicn zones in the Project Area.
Part D:   (i) Establishment    of  an  Agricultural  Credit   Unit
within DPDRG and provision of agricultural credit
through it to farmers and farmers' associations in
the Project Area.
(ii) Carrying out of a study to identify agricultural
credit needs in the Project Area and in the coun-
try as a whole and to formulate recommendations on
appropriate means to satisfy such needs.
(iii)  Strengthening the capability of the monitoring and
evaluation unit established under the First Rice
Development Project to analyse and monitor the
operations of the Project and to provide necessary
information and feedback on such operations to
Project management.
(iv) Carrying out of activities necessary to maintain
the productivity of perimeters developed under the
First Rice Development Project.
Part E:   Training and fellowships for studies abroad for all
Project staff in fields relevant to their positions such as crop
husbandry, soil assessment and swamp development, accounting, and
equipment and machinery maintenance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works
estimated to cost an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 or
more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Guinea
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for furniture, office equipment and supplies, and
vehicle spare parts may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review cf invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to
cost an aggregate equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contracts.


﻿- 16 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
(a) In order to assist the Borrewer in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts, specialists and
consultants referred to in Schedule 6 and whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with prinziples and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation to its obligations under para-
graph (a) of this Section and subject to the provisions of said
paragraph, the Borrower shall employ such experts, specialists
and consultants only through specialized consulting firms or
agencies, satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without prior approval of the
Association, amend or waive any of the terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants, experts and specialists, including
consulting firms or agencies employed under the Project, or grant
any material extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts
or modifications thereof, or agree to any substitution of per-
sonnel of such consultants, experts and specialists, including
consulting and training firms or agencies, or suspend payments
under, or terminate, any contract with such consultants, experts,
specialists, including consulting and training firms or agencies.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdraw-
als to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 18 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
(1) and (2) and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any outstanding special commit-
ment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) and (2) for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 19 -
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
ACU and Agricultural Credit
under Part D of the Project
1.   (a) The Borrower shall establish ACU within the Finance
Department of DPAG, and maintain it under the direct supervision
of the Financial Controller.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that credit be extended to
farmers and farmers' associations only for farming activities
related to the Project purposes and in accordance with the
following terms and conditions: (A) short-term credit shall be
granted for a maturity period not to exceed 12 months and shall
apply only to the financing of the cost of agricultural inputs
such as seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and implements such as
hoes and other necessary tools; and (B) medium-term credit shall
be granted for a maturity period not to exceed 36 months and
shall apply only to the financing of agricultural equipment and
the cost of manpower.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) except for credit
needed to finance the cost of manpower, all medium-term credits
extended to farmers and farmers' associations under the Project
do not exceed 75% of the cost of the items to be financed and
the beneficiary of the credit contributes 25% of the cost out of
his own resources; and (ii) all short- and medium-term credits
extended to farmers under the Project shall bear interest includ-
ing any charges at a minimum rate of 10% per annum or at any
higher rate determined by the Government for similar credits.
Amounts of the repayments of the short- and medium-term credits
financed under the Project shall be credited to the Credit Fund
and, except as otherwise agreed by the Association, such amounts
shall be used by the Borrower only for the purposes of extending
credit for purposes similar to those financed under the Project.
2.   ACU operating costs shall be accounted for as Project
operating costs. Arrangements satisfactory to the Association
shall be made to secure the assistance of a national credit
institution in the management and monitoring of ACU credit
activities.
3.   During the third year of Project implementation, the Bor-
rower and the Association shall appraise ACU with a view to


﻿- 21 -
transferring ACU and the Credit Fund to a suitable national
credit institution.
4.   ACU shall be responsible for:
(a) assessing farmers' credit requirements and their annual
financial needs in terms of agricultural inputs and equipment;
(b) preparation, approval and execution of credit agree-
ments;
(c) monitoring and collection of credit repayments;
(d) maintenance of appropriate accounts and records for
credit operations; and
_') distribution of agricultural inputs in the Project
Area.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 6
Resident Experts' Positions and Consultants'
Services to be financed under the Project
1.   Resident Experts:
(i) Extension Specialist
(ii) Workshop Manager
(iii) Rural Engineer
(iv) Financial Controller
(v) Technical Director
(vi) Training Officer
2.   Consultants' Services:
(i) Training of the monitoring and evaluation unit
staff   in the fields of planning, designing and
execution of projects (3 man-months);
(ii) 2 seminars for staff responsible for the super-
vision of the Project (3 man-months);
(iii) supervision services for the coffee rehabilitation
program (5 man-months);
(iv) assessment of the soil and hydrological potential
in the Project Area (2 man-months);
(v) study to identify and prepare tree crops project
(4 man-months);
(vi) advisory services in development matters such as
extension, credit, farmer organization, nutrition
and home management (4 man-months);
(vii) study for national agricultural credit needs (15
man-months);


﻿- 23 -
(viii) services for the preparation of a follow-up
project (10 man-months); and
(ix) annual audit of project accounts.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of,
198F                         S     E
FOR SECRETARY


