Report No. TO-678a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL REPORT
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
GUYANA
September 10, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY
Guyanese dollars (G$)
US$1         3 G$2
G$1          - US$0.50
G$.,o000,000    us$500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (British System)
1 inch (in)          -   25.4 millimeters (mm)
12 in                 a 1 foot (ft)
5,280 ft              = 1 mile (mi)
- L 609 kilometer (km)
1 acre (ac)           a 43,560 sq ft
* 0.405 hectares (ha)
1 sq mile             - 640 ac
- 2.590 sq km
= 258.99 ha
1 long ton (ton)     -   2,240 pounds (lb)
a 1.Cl6 metric tons (m ton)
ABREVIATIONS USED IN REPORT
GD            Georgetown  Datum
MoWH          Ministry of Works and Hydraulics,
Guyana
UK            United Kingdcm
tMDP/SF       United Nations Developnent Program
(Special Fund)



GUYANA
SE, DDFENSE PRCOECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
C`UNMARY                                                        -l i
I.      INTD'CDTUTTI OtJ                                       I
II.     RACKGKRO  UN D
A. The Dsvelopment of `ea Defenses                      2
B. Cyclic and Local Erosion                            1
C.  The Sea DefenFe Program                            K1
III.    THE PROJECT A REA                                      5
A.  PhvFical and Economic Conditions                    5
B.  Design of Sea Defenses for the Project Area         7
IV.     THE PPOCE)CT                                            8
A.  Sea WalL Construction                               9
B.  Engineering, Economic and Hydrographic
Studies                                           11
C.  Project Costs                                       11
D.  The F'inanci ri of the Project                      1^
V.      ORGANIZATION4 AND YDANAGEM"IT                           IL
VI.     BEN7,FITS A.D JUSTIFICATIONIS                           15
A.  Benefit.s of the Program                            15
B.  Estimated Rate of Return                           17
C.  Fiscal Implications of the Project                  16
VII.    CCIV:NCLIUIOMS AND RECOIMMENDATIONS                     19
This report is based on a feasibility study prepared by the Ministry
of Works and Hydraulics, Guyana, and the findings of an appraisal
mission consisting of Messrs. D.M. Haynes, F. Afrouz, R.Y. Scheiner
(of the Bank) and Mr. E. Quicke (FAO/IBRD Program) wh4.h visited
Guyana in April - May, 1968.



AiNNE 1;-I - T2ite 1 - Gro:'8 'Dno:tic Prodiucl .nd Contribution of
Psotiet t 5;a. . r ]n
- TI? le t   Value of NationC I x     ortP ?nd Pro(duction in
Pro Ioect. Area (L9, Ulv)
-   La, La: - Govnonr!n 1.   ne Pl | evenuen fron' Project
Area I kii§,(,-   rd 19bCa
Co' ta .  rosion , and Se2 DeI f,-  i_l r   u' n
-f Tb  L-. -Year L,Ui 1Thefence ProCr-r,
- T:nLe    - 12-Year Sea Defen5e ProPrnw
AN.N     - P "; ject. - Cra.o[:   2-rolni. a:
A;wi3.e , Ev,i-t;i.e.i l 'Pro ject C:osts
ANNEX 6 - 2ecoverv OfI ProJ1ect CGou,tF
I r e 1 - Proprra, CostA- and 'ev-enue!
- -   I e'. - Prorram       an,rd Internlo 1  esource-
A_4NiN:EX 7 - :WH`a±u'ntion of ' conrnmic Bernefiti of' t a  ea Defenme Prograr-
- Ts4Ae 1  - f,out;, of Progru-r, and ;_ub'p-eqr ent. V'ork; in Pro-ect
A r2a
- T. bLe  a-es 0i Tetur t-n of Pro je,t Under tDiff erent.
A ,, szmt ions,
FICTORt3 I  - 'I'ide C,urve:;
FIGIJRE IT - Organizat,ion of r,inistrvl o-f dru k   no  iydraulics
FIGrZUR, IIf - ConF--truction 5chneduie
INi an 1  -  GuaC,y,!. n.
l>MarI  -  £'srerlmia-o Corent.v-ne Co,s i. - jo- J:  Vine r. s and Popui,, tion
Ya p 3  -  Sen D(funme Progf.-. ia ut. Demerara Cooa-t
l;an .l  - .-,ea n  .D en i  a PF o rr-:u  et. C,oa 1. Ui iera rn.



Cl flfAN' A
SFA DJDF!U!S2. PROJ1ECT
APFRAISAL FFPORT
SxIP D.AIRY
i.        The Government of Guyana has prepared a Twelve-Year 'ea Defense
Prograin to protect the fertile coastal plains, which lie below sea level
The Program includes full details of works to be undertaken in the first
four years (Phe.se I), but the proposals for 1972-79 are indicative and would
be finalized on the basis of feasibilitv stuoies_.included in Phase 1.  The
estimated cost of the Program is G.9S million (USc$46.5 million) of which
about G$)30 million (about G$33.5 million including, protective works for
Georgetown) would be recuired for priority works in Phase I. The Govern-
ment has requested the Bank's participation in financing part of the
foreign cost of Phase I and has requested assistance for the remainder of
the Phase I works from the IJnited Kingdom. The United Kingdomr has given an
understanding to the Bank that, subject to annual parliamentary approval,
it will finance these works.
ii.       The coastal plains, although less than three percent of the area
of the country, are the home of 95 percent of the population and produce
almost 80 percent of GDP. The project area accounts for 20 percent of agri-
cultural production, the mainstay of Guyana's econory.
iii.      The selection of sites and the design of the project works are
based upon a study of coastal erosion, financed by the United Nations Devel-
opment Program, (Special Fund) for which the Bank was executing agency.
iv.       The Bank project would include construction of about five miles
of masonry/concrete sea walls of various types; pvrchase of eouipment to
extend the scope of coastal erosion research and hydrographic studies; and
technical and economic studies to prepare projects, on the basis of eco-
nomic priority, for later phases of the Program. The Ministry of Warks
and Hydraulics would be the executing agency for the construction of sea
walls as well as for the procurement of equipment. Contracts for construc-
tion and procurement would be awarded after international bidding.   Engin-
eering consultants would review specifications and documents, administer
contracts and supervise construction, which would be completed in four
years. The studies, which would include the design and economic evaluation
cf a breakwater or alternative protection at Georgetown, would be carried
out by consultants according to a schedule which would permit subsequent
financing to be completed in time to allow later phases to continue without
interruption.
v.        The cost of the project, incl.uding interest during construction,
is estimated at (,:15 million (-17.  million).  The estimateU' foreign
exchange component, about G:1;1O0 million (lJS.5 million enu:ivP.eient) or two-
thirds of the total, would be finnnced by thc rroposed loan.



- ii -
vi.       If't.he sea defenses were not built, the economic value of the
project area would soon diminish, not onily because of the gradual loss of
land by erosion but also because the value of residential property and agri-
cultural rroduction would be drastically reduced by the more widespread awd
ralpid intrusion of sea water.  'I'The benefits of the project cannot be isolated,
since the other works in the Twelve-Yesr Prograr. are necessary to ensure nro-
tection of thie area.  The total direct benefits (i.e., protection against loss
of agricultural production and residential values in the whole area) must
t'rerefore be con.nared with the cost of t'he entire Twelve-Year Prograr on
whi.ch thev are dependent. In the absence of data on the actuial rate of loss
if no defenses are buiilt, thlee rates have been postulated.   Under the most
croltble conditions, the rate of returr. would be 31 nercent, or 10 percent
if onily agricultural benefits are taken into account.   The returns would be
substantially higher if the und.eremployment of the labor force were taken
into account by valuing labor at its opportunitty cost.   About 16 percent of
governments' revenues, from which project costs would. be financed, are dle-
rived fromn the rorject area.
vii.      The Swelve-Year S>ea Dsefense Program for the nroject area is tech-
nically sound and economically Justified.   A project consisting of rart
of the first nha.se would be sulit..able for a Bark loan of US'.5 million ecuiivalent,
repaycable over ?5 years inciudin,; a five year grace neriod.  The borrower
wouild be the Government of ,uyalna.



GUiYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
APPRAISAI, REPORT
I.  INT'RODUCTION'T
1.01      In late 1966, the Bank reviewed Guyana's 1966-72 Development Pro-
gram and recommended that the annual provision for reconstruction and main-
tenance of sea defenses should be increased fron the Planned   *,;2 million to
G$4-5 million. 1/ The problem of sea defenses was consideredl at the aid-
donors conference at Georgetown in November, 1967, and the Ministry of Works
and Hydraulics (Mol.'H) later prepared a master plan for a Twelve-Year Sea
Defense Progran. The estimated cost of the whole Program is G$93 million,
of which about G$30 million (excluding the cost of protecting Georgetown)
would be spent during the first four years.  Expenditures during the Program
would rise to an annual level of G58.7 million and, with the amount of
foreign aid envisaged, the Government's net annual expenditure (including
loan service) would rise from an average of G$2.9 million during the four
years of Phase 1 to an average of G*4.5 million during 1972-79.
1.02      In March 1968, the Government of Guyana asked the Bank to partici-
pate in financing the present project which is part of Phase 1 of the Pro-
gram with an estimated cost of G$15 million (US$7.5 million equivalent).
'I'he Government has asked the United Kingdom (U.K.) to finance the remainder
of Phase 1.
1.03      This report is based upon information supplied at various times
by the Government of Guyana; on the reports of a UNNDP/SF survey of coastal
erosion; 2/ and on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
D.M. Haynes, F. Afrouz, R.Y. Scheiner (of the Bank) and Mr. E. Quicke (FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program) which visited Guyana in April-May 1966.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The estuaries of the Essequibo and Rerbice Rivers (Map 1) were
first settled by the Dutch in 1581. In 1841, Britain purchased the Dutch
settlements and merged them into the Colony of British Guiana which in 1966
became the sovereign nation of Guyana.
1/   A Bank economic report entitled "An Appraisal of the Development
Program of Guyana" (Report No. WH-Th9b), dated April 21, 1967.
2/   United Nations Development Program (Special Pund) "DemararR Coastal
Investigation, Volumes I to III":  Hydraulics Laboratory, Delf]t, The
Netherlands; 1962. The Bank was the executing agency for this survey.



:.02      Guyana, which is about. the same size as Great Britain (83,000 sq
miles), had an estimated populax-ion, at the end of 1967, of 690,000, increasing
at a rate of about 2.U percent per annuzm.  'he 1967 CDP was about G$370
millioll (Annex 1, 'able 1 ) and t-he per capita income roughly Fr,L35.  ,ome
l'70  ercent of the nopulation live in rural areas and 35 percent of available
labor is engaged in agriculture, which contributes over 20 percent of CDP.
historically, the economy has been based on sugar exports, with rice playing
an increasinrly important role sin the ptast two decades.  However, minerals -
T-ainly bauxite ;ind its products - are now the major commodity, accounting
for aLmost half of all exnorts, which totaled G$187 million in 1966 (Annex
1, Table 2).  T!he mining industry, which is the only major economic activity
in the interior highlands aind' sandy foothills, contributes almost 20 percent
of CDP but emp.loys only five -ercent of' the ..Labor force. Under-employment
is widespread, even in the main sugar--nroducing districts, and it is estimated
that some 20 percent of the avallsable la:bor force is unemployed.
2..03,    With the exception of a small, remote area of cattle-ranching on
the Savanna in the southwest, the interior has little ag-ricultural potential.
Agricultural nroduction and all other non-minin- activities are concen-
trated in a narrow fertile strip of the coastal plain (M'ap 2).   This plain
seldom exceeds ten miles in wid-th, and totals only about 2,500 so miles,
but it contains 9'5 percent of tre prpulation and produces almost 80 percent
of GDP.  Unfoitunately, the coastal plain lies below high tide level and is
liaiole not only to inundation and erosion oy the sea in front but also to
flooding by run-off from the hills behind.   The Guyanese cannot retreat to
the infertile interior.   The protection of the fertile strip against erosion
and. flooding is therefore of vital irm ortance to agriculture and to the
whole economy.
A. The Development of Sea Defenses
2.04      The first nolders on thre coastal nlain were built in about 1770,
when soil exhaustion forced the original settlers to abandon their planta-
tions on the riverine soils.   The cost of empoldering and draining the
swaniips was great but the higher yields justified the huge outlay on slave
labor.  Over 200 sugar plantations had been reclaimed by 1834, when the
slaves were em.ancinated, The rising cost of indentured labor from India,
C'hina and elsewhere, an1 increasing competition from other sugar producing
countries led to the abandonment of many plantati.ons and eventually to the
consolidation of the remainder into the present eleven sugar estates. Aban-
doned plantations, and others which were sold off piecemeal, were taken over
by smallholders g,row:Ing rice, root crvlps, veretables and coconuts.
2.05     'r'le polders were originally some distance inland from the sea and
were protected against encroachment by the tid.al flats and mangroves.   Even-
tually, as the shore eroded, it became necessary to build sea dams across
the f'ront of the polders to prevent flooding at high tide.   These earth dams,
in turn, were eroded by the sea and collapsed, forcing the proprietors to
retire inl.and and build a new line of sea dams.   vy about 1920 the line of
defenses was close - in many cases less than helf a mile - to the ed.ge of the



cropped area. Efforts were made to strengthen the sea dams, at first by
driving wooden or steel piles along the sea ward side of the earth banks and
later by building "revetments". 1/ In general, towever, these new defenses
were still sane distance inland of the mean high water line. They were only
reached by the sea during high spring tides and storms. The force of in-
coming waves was dissipated by the vegetation bn the tidal flats and the
reinforced sea dams were not exposed to vigorous erosive wave action for
long periods. Erosion of the foreshore has continued and today many of the
defenses are continuously exposed to the action of the sea. New types of
walls are now required to resist erosion as well as to prevent flooding.
The Administration of Sea Defenses
2.06      The first sea dams were built by plantation proprietors on their
own initiative and at their own expense but, in 1880, the Director of Pub-
lic Works was given powers to direct proprietors to construct approved
defenses and to provide loans for this purpose. However, many estates were
abandoned and it became clear that the provision of adequate defenses was
beyond the resources of individuals. In 1906, therefore, nine Sea Defense
Commissioners were appointed with powers to levy taxes on an acreage basis
to finance construction. Later, in 1913, Government accepted the responsi-
bility for one-quarter of the costs of construction and maintenance.
Finally, the Government accepted responsibility for the full cost of sea
defenses through the enactment of the Sea Defense Ordinance, 1933, (as
amended in 1937) which remains the basis of the administration of sea de-
fenses. The main points of the Ordinance were:
(a) A twelve-member Sea Defense Board has statutory
responsibility for the sea defenses of the entire
coast.
(b) The Board has very wide powers to take necessary
action in emergencies: e.g., it can call upon the
resources of Government departments and the private
sector, without waiting for legislative approval to
incur expenditure, to contain flooding and make
repairs when breaches occur.
(c) Planning, construction and maintenance is carried
out by the MoWH and the cost (except for an annual
contribution of G$2,500 from Georgetown Council) is
provided in the Government budget as a charge on
general revenues.
1/ Masonry or concrete coverings to the sloping, seaward face of the
embankment.



B. Cyc_Lc and Local Erosion
2.07      The coastline of Guyana is subject to a cyclical erosion pattern
(Annex 2). The meain centers of erosion are about 25 miles apart and move
westwards at about 0.7 - 0.8 miles per year.   The peak attack on a particular
point on the shore therefore recurs at intervals of about 30 years and is
followed by a period of accretion, during which mud is deposited on the fore-
shore.
2.08      The UNDP/SF Study showed that it was possible to foresee when an
area will be affected by cyclic erosion but it is difficult to predict accur-
ately when erosion will actually affect sea defenses since this depends on
the width of the tidal flats, the type of material making up the foreshore,
the intensity of wave action End the direction of wave attacks.   Moreover,
the general pattern is disturbed near the mouth of rivers by local currents
and by local deposition of riverain silt. Similarly, manmade or natural ob-
structions to tidal and other currents may cause unexplained local erosion,
which is almost as severe as t.he cyclic attack but which may stop as un-
predictably as it began. Further studies are required to extend the results
of the UNDP/SF study to all perts of the coast and to improve the methods of
predicting which locations should receive priority in sea defense planning.
C. The Sea Defense Program
2.09      The Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program (1968-79), prepared by the
MoWI, is described in Annex 3. The aims of the Program are:
(a) To provide a reasonable degree of protection to all
parts of the coast;
(b) to reclaim about 10,000 acres of land, mainly tidal
salt flats, for agriculture and housing; and
(c) to improve drainage in selected areas.
2.10      The four-year Phase 1 of the Program, of which the present project
is a part, includes rehabilitation or construction of defenses in areas
now under active local attack or where cyclical erosion is predicted during
1969-74. The proposals for later phases are merely indicative but Phase
1 includes provision for further technical and economic studies and for
the preparation of feasibility reports, on the basis of economic priorities,
for works to be started after ]971. Provision is also made in Phase 1 for
expansion of hydrographic surveys, to permit studies of cyclical erosion
along the entire coast.
2.11      The Government of Guyana asked the Bank to assist in financing
three parts of Phase 1; tne construction of new sea walls on existing earth
embankments in East Demerara; similar works in West Demerara; and the con-
struction of a breakwater in front of the Georgetown Esplanade. However, it



-5-
was found during appraisal that, although the area behind the pronosed break-
water is highly developed, and is liable to be attacked by cyclical erosion
by 1971/72, the proposal was not fully prepared:  surveys and test borings
of the site, hydraulic tests to determine whether the structure would perform
its functions, and further studies of the cross section and method of con-
struction would be needed before the proposal could be evaluated.
2.12      The Government has indicated to the Bank that it will seek financial
assistance from the U.K. for the remainder of the works in Phase 1. These
include construction of new, and rehabilitation of old, sea waJJs or, East
and West Demerara Coasts, (including the existing wall in front of (ceorgetown)
and protective works on the Berbice, Essequibo and Corentyne coasts and
the islands in the Essequibo Estuary.
2.13      It became clear during appraisal, that the sites on the Pemlerarn.
Coasts had been carefully selected. While the locations of the various
Bank and U.K. works are separate they are interdependent upon each other.
For example, serious economic damage co-uld be caused in land behind a Bank
section because of flooding through a breach in a nearby section not constructed
in time.  Similarly, substantial economic loss could result if sugarcane
or rice produced on land behind a Bank-financed wall could not be processed
because a sugar-factory or rice mill had been put out of action by a breach
in some neglected section of the defenses.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      A claim by Venezuela to certain territories, generally lying to
the west of the Essequibo River, is being discussed by a "Mixed Commission'!
established by the Geneva Agreement signed in February 1966 by the 1T.K.,
Venezuela and the Government of Eritish Guiana. Although the Program
covers the whole coast, all works in the Bank project lie in a part of the
coastal plain to the east of the Esseu-lbo (see Map 2) and thus outside the
disputed territory and the claim was therefore not considered relevant to
the project. The Demerara River divides the area into two Districts; East
Coast Demerara (Map 3) and West Coast Demerara (Map 4).
A. Physical and Economic Conditions
3.02      The climate of the two districts is similar, although there is a
general tendency for the mean rainfall to increase from east (86 in) to
west (100 in). There have been six major, and several minor, droughts in
the past eighty years and periods of 2-4 years with higher than average
rain recur at irregular intervals. The effects of the rainfall deviations
are cushioned, but not eliminated, by the drainage and irrigation systems.
Sugar is less affected than rice partly because it is a perennial and
partly because the estates have more efficient systems than smallholder
areas.



--6-
East Coast Demerara District (Map 3)
3.03      The East Coast Distr'ict is bounded on the south by the Demerara
Conservancy Canal, which brings irrigation water from a large catchment in
the hills and swamps. The gross area between the CanaL and the sea is
about 59,000 ac but includes some areas of infertile peats and saline clays
which are unsuitable for agriculture; crop area and other data are given
in Annex 4.
3-04      There are two large stLgar estate groups, each with its own fac-
tory; the coTnbined factory capacity (70,000 tons of sugar per year) is more
than sufficient for the 21,000 ac of sugar cane. Most of the cane is
grown by estates, outgrowers providing less than ten percent. The main
concentration of smallholdings is at the eastern end of the District, cov-
ering about 15,000 ac. Rice, the most important smallholders crop, is
processed at mills in the District. Vegetables and -oot crops are grown
for the Georgetown market and coconuts are planted on sandy ridges and in
gardens. Apart from one estate--owned herd, there is no organized livestock
industry but many households kee!p cattle and small stock.
3.05      Population of the District is estimated at nearly 73,000, a
density of 790 per sq mile.   ]states provide housing for key employees and
the majority of their labor force live in residential areas along the
coast. There are an estimated 17,500 houses in the District, many concen-
trated in the major villages which serve as dormitories for Georgetown
workers. A few light industries (e.g., a shirt factory) have been estab-
lished at the eastern end where electricity is available from Georgetown.
Each village has its own retail system and there are a number of sports
clubs, cineŽmas and other amenities.
3.06      Each plantation and village has its own simple road, running at
right angles to the sea. Sugar cane is transported to the factories by
punts on irrigation canals, which are interconnected by navigation canals.
The road and railway are the only channels of communication across the
District.
West Coast Demerara (Map 4)
3.07      The West Coast District (42,000 ac gross) is bounded on the south
by the Boerasiri and Bonasika Canals. It is divided into two physical
units by the Boerasiri River but the two parts are economically dependent
upon each other.
3.o8      The pattern of agricultural development is similar to that of
the East Coast District. There are two sugar estates with 13,500 ac of
cane and two factories with a combined capacity of 48,000 tons of sugar
per yeer. Rice is the main cron- on small holdings. The population is al-
most 42,000, a density of 64o per sq mile. There has been comparatively
little residential development, the 8,000 houses serving the local labor
force rather than being dormitories for Georgetown workers. Utilities and
amenities are of a lower standard than those of the East Coast District:
there is no light industry but -the area has its own rice mills.



- 7 -
3.09      The West Coast District is separated from Georgetown by the
Demerara River, which is crossed by a ferry. Considerable amounts of
sugar and other produce are sent directly to Georgetown by boat, but the
railway is an important link with Parika, the terminal for ferries serving
the islands in the Essequibo Estuary and western parts of the country.
B. Design of Sea Defenses for the Project Area
3.10      A wide belt of deep clays, mixed with silt, forms the shore of
the project area and extends many miles under the sea. The gradient of the
sea bed is very gentle on the West Coast, where the depth of water may be
less than one fathom (6 ft) several miles out to sea, but steeper on the
East Coast, where the one fathom line is usually less than a mile from
shore. The range of the semi-diurnal tides is 3-10 ft, averaging 4 ft at
neap tide and 9 ft at spring tide (Fig. 1).
3.11      The prevailing winds come from the northeast across hundreds of
miles of open sea. The highest winds (about 25 mph) occur in the earlv
months of the year but Guyana is outside of the hurricane belt.   Wave ac-
tivity is greatest from November to April when long ocean swells arrive
from the northeast. These swells break up into local, shorter waves when
they reach the continental shelf - about 150 miles off shore - and later
the shelving coastline.  The wave height averages about 4 ft during rough
periods, but only 1.3 ft during calms; the UNDP/SF study reconmended that
a wave height of 6 ft should be used for design purposes. The uprush of
the wave when it strikes the shore or a sea wall depends on the height of
the wave, the angle at which it strikes and the slope of the foreshore and
wall. The combination of these factors is such that uprush is considerably
greater on the East than on the West Coast.
3.12      All of the locations included in the project are now protected
by earth embankments. These embankments are expected to prevent ingress
of sea water until the shore is eroded below 49 GD 1/ but are not protec-
ted against erosion by rain or direct action by waves. The specific loca-
tions were selected either because the foreshore is already under cyclic
attack which will certainly lower the foreshore below 49 GD or because it
is already below this critical level due to local erosion.
3.13      The main function of the sea wall is to protect the embankment
against erosion. Because the clay soil offers a very poor foundation, the
height of an embankment is limited to about 9 ft above ground level, i.e.,
to less than 60 GD in most locations. This is not always sufficient to
cater for wave uprush, especially on the East Coast, and the sea wall must
1/   Elevations in Guyana are measured in feet above a hypothetical datum,
Georgetown Datum (GD), to provide positive numbers even for places
below sea level. Mean sea level is 50.54 CD; the highest recorded
tide was 56.24 GD; the elevations of other features of interest are
-hou'n in Figure 1.



- 8 -
also be provided with a wave screen (coping) to increase the height of the
crest to about 62.5 - 63.0 GD.
3.14      The proposed designs for sea walls for the East and West Demerara
coasts are described in Annex 3.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.o0      The project, which would be executed over four years by the Ministry
of Works and Hydraulics, would be a part of Phase 1 of a Twelve-Year Defense
Program. It would include.
(a)  construction of about 26,230 ft of sea walls
including 21,230 ft in East Coast Demerara and
5,000 ft in West. Coast Demerara (see para. 4.03
et seq);
(b)  purchase of equipment to permit expansion of the
activities of the Hydrographic Survey Section, MoWH
(see para. 4.13); and
(c)  preparation of feasibility reports for the Georgetown
breakwater and. future phases of the Program (see
para. 4.12).
4.02      As noted above in pars. 2.13 the works included in Phase I are
interdependent, and ;he proposed Bank project would not be justified without
the construction of the remainder of Phase I, at an estimated cost of about
G$ 15 million (US$7.5 million equivalent), excluding the cost of works to
protect Georgetown. The Governnent has agreed to finance and construct
those works which are not included in the project. At the Aid Coordination
Meeting in November, 1967, the IJ.K. expressed an interest in financing part
of a sea defense program and the Government has accordingly submitted to the
U.K. a request for financial assistance for the remainder of Phase I. The
U.K. has informed the Bank of its willingness, subject to annual parliamen-
tary approval, tc provide the necessary funds. The Government has also
agreed that it will 2onsult with the Bank on the financing and implementation
of the program for works at Georgetown and for later phases of the Twelve-
Year Program, which will be prepared on the basis of the feasibility studies
included in the project,
A. Sea Wall Constructicn
Suitability of Sites and Designs
4.03      The locations for project works were selected from among thesE
included in Phase 1 because they were suitable for contract works and wqre
large enough to attract international bidding. The choice of sites is suit-
able from both technical and economic aspects. The actual location of works



-9-
included in the proposed project are shown in Annex 3, Table 1 and in Maps 3
and 4. In every case the shoreline is presently being eroded, but in most
cases the proposed line of defense is several hundred feet inland. Most of
the project works can therefore still be executed "in the dry" without the
additional costs associated with cofferdams and working under tidal conditions
but, if erosion of the tidal flats continues at the present rate, all of the
completed walls will be exposed to the sea by 1973. All of the project sites
have been acquired by the Sea Defense Board. Access Is available to all
sites but existing tracks will require improvement. Estimates of project
costs include provision for preparatory site works.
4.04      The three designs proposed for the sea walls are satisfactory.   The
cross sections are based upon hydraulic tests carried out in the hydraulic
laboratory at Delft University, but incorporate local experience and are
constructed of local materials. A length of Type 1 wall has withstood heavy
wave attack, with the foreshore eroding below 48 CD, during 1967/8.   Type 2
is of a similar hydraulic design but will be used in alireas which are being
attacked by local erosion. The Type 3 wall is a development of earlier de-
signs, incorporating modifications suggested by the hydraulic tests, and has
already been used on the West Coast.
4.05      There are 19 drainage outfall structures of various types in the
project sites but 10 are in good condition and can be incorporated in the
new waUls. Two outfalls belong to sugar estates and the cost of repair
would be shared equally by the estate and by Government. The remaining
seven belong to Government and the full cost of renewal is included in the
estimates of project costs.
Availability of Materials
4.o6      The cement, reinforcement steel, sheet piles and polyethylene
sheets required for the sea walls would be imported. A considerable number
of shipping lines serve Georgetown.
4.07      Good quality sand is available in unlimited quantities in the
foothills near Atkinson Field (Map 1) and is transported by truck for work
on the East Coast. On the West Coast, sand of adequate quality is dug from
sand bars.
4.o8      Boulder stone and aggregate, which account for about US$1.4 million,
or a third of the cost of the civil works, are available on the banks of the
Essequibo River, scme 50-60 miles upstream from the coast (Map 2). The
stones produced in these quarries are loaded on barges and transported by
river and sea to the shore (West Coast) or Georgetown (East Coast). A few
private owners presently control most of the quarrying capacity. In order
to break the oligopoly of these quarry owners, who were able to impose high
prices on the stone, the Government opened another quarry and is now operating
it on a break-even basis. This move succeeded in reducing the prices somewhat.
The combined output of private and government quarries in 1967 was 130,000
tons of crushed stones and 20,000 tons of boulder stones. Phase I of the
program will require some 700,000 tons of stone, with peaks of 300,000 tons
per year and 40,000 tons per month. Although the quarries have adequate
reserves of rock, neither the private nor the government quarries are presently



- 10 -
equipped to produce or handle such. quantities.  Investments are necessary
inI equipment, transportation means, improvement of loading and unloading
facilities and establishment of storage areas, to meet the requirements
of the Sea Defense Program and other competing demands for stone, all of
which would require a doubling of present capacity. During discussions
with the quarry owners, it appeared that they were willing to invest in
increasing their production capacity substantially in time to meet the demands
of the Sea Defense Program. One of the largest quarries is negotiating
financing from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (U.K.).   As quarrying
is one of the very few industries in Guyana, Government is anxious to encourage
local producers to make investments necessary to augment production to meet
the anticipated demand and to establish it on a sound and economically viable
basis. In a shortage situation, it is possible that local stone prices
for all categories of stone required for the project could increase. Estimates
made by a road construction company operating in Guyana indicate that crushed
stone imported as ballast on bauxite vessels coming to Guyana would cost
10 to 20 percent less than locally produced stone of similar grades. There
is, however, great reluctance on the part of Government to allow stone impor-
tation, although a mechanism for licensing imports exists.
4.09      The Government is cwrrently negotiating for U.K. financial assist-
ance to improve unloading facilities at Georgetown. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that these improvements would be effected prior
to the start of construction of the project works in late 1969 and that
Government would take urgent steps to encourage and facilitate the substantial
expansion of the quarries, by this time.   Governnent further agreed that
invitations to tender for civil works would specify, inter'alia, that bids
must include alternative prices for local and for imported stone.   Agreement
was obtained on a procedure which provides a "weighting" of about 25 percent
in favor of local stone when evaluating these alternatives or others, in-
cluded at the bidders option, based upon combinations of local and imported
stone. It was agreed that Government would promptly issue import licenses
for any imported stone specified in the successful bid. This departure
from the Bank's usual practice of concerning itself only with goods procured
directly under a project and not with goods procured by civil works con-
tractors is justified by the particular importance of stone, which accounts
for about a third of the civril works costs, to the project and to the economy
of Guyana.
h4.10     There is sufficient labor available for the proposed project and
other foreseen development works. There is a scarcity of skilled mechanics
and shortages may develop in other trades, but no serious problem is antici-
pated provided that contractors institute in-service training for artisans.
Construction Schedule
4.11      Details of the project schedule are given in Figure IV.   Selec-
tion of consultants, preparation of documents and the award of contracts
would require ten months. The construction period, including mobilization,
would be 36-40 months. Work would proceed concurrently on the East and
West Coasts and. contractors would be required to phase works in relation
to the expected date of erosion.



- 11 -
B, Engineering, Economic and lHydrographic Studies
4.12      The cost of carrying out engineering and economic studies and of
purchasing equipment required for the expansion of hydrographic surveys
would be included in the project. These studies would include:
(a)  The preparation of hydraulic, engineering and economic
feasibility studies for the proposed breakwater and
alternative measures for protecting the Georgetown
Esplanade. The report would be available by the end of
1969, in time to allow consideration, by the Bank and
other sources, of financing construction before the
cyclical erosion attack expected in 1971-72.
(b) A comprehensive study aimed. at further improving cross
sections for sea walls, including consideration of
construction methods, materials and costs as well as
hydraulic tests of models, to be completed not later
than 1971.
(c) Feasibility studies of works to be constructed after
1971 including assignment of economic priorities to
individual sections.
4.13      The collection of hydrological and sedimentological data is pre-
sently carried out by two old, unreliable launches. Data are collected
mainly on the Demerara Coast, where manmade landmarks allow visual means
of position-finding. The project would include provision for a new survey
vessel with modern instrumentation and radio navigation aids to allow it
to work in poor visibility and out of sight of the shore. Provision would
also be made for wave recorders and other equipment necessary for collecting
data for the planning of future sea defenses on a more analytic and scientific
basis.
C. Project Costs
4.14      The estimated cost of the project, including interest during
construction and contingencies, is G$14.95 million. Detailed estimates
are given in Annex 5, Table 1. The main categories of cost would be:



- 12 -
Local          Foreign         Total
Currency         Exchange        Cost
- - - - - - - - - G$'000 - - - - - - .
Construction:                        3,280           5,940          9°,220
Engineering fees, supervision
-and preparatory works             920             920          1,840
4,200           6,860         ll,060
Purchase of Equipment                  -                40            414 0
Tests and Studies                      100             700            800
Contingencies                          700           1,000          1,700
Interest During Construction           -               950            950
Total Project Cost                   5.,000          9,950         14,950
(Approximate US'`'000 equivalent)   (2,500)         (5,000)        (7,500)
4.1f      The cost estimates have been revised by the Bank to take account
of engineering fees, contingencies and other items excluded from the esti-
mates in the project submission. Fully-detailed unit costs were prepared
for each type of sea wall and provision made for preparatory works and
other costs incurred by contractors.  Foreign exchange canponents, averaging
abouit two-thirds of the total, were estimated for each item and include fuel,
spares and depreciation for stone quarrying, construction and transport equip-
ment, as well as direct imports; no foreign costs were imputed to labor.
ContirZencies were estimated at 15 percent for construction works and at
various rates for other items, averaging 13.8 percent overall. Government,
following its normal procedure f'or development projects undertaken by inter-
national contractors, would exempt from import duties materials for use on
the project and (subject to reexnort) construction equipment used exclusively
for project works.
D. The Financing of the Project
4.16      The borrower would be the Government of Guyana which would finance
the works by annual allocations to the IIoWH. The proposed loan would finance
the foreign exchange component of the project, G$9 million, and interest
during the four-year construction period, G$l million approximately. The
proposed loan would therefore total G1.l0 million (about US$5 million equivalent).
The Government would finance the local cost component of the proposed project,
G$5 million (US$2.5 million equivalent).



- 13 -
4.17      Phasing of expenditure is shown below:
Year:    1      2      3      4       5a/     Total
… -    -   ------------G- G$  million…---    - - - -…
Local costs                   360     880  ',610  1,970    180       5,000
Foreign costs:
Project costs          1,020  2,010  3,180   1,970    820       9,000
IDC b/                    80    160    290     4;20    -          950
Total Cost:       1,460  3,050   5,o80  4,360  1,000      14,950
(say 15,000)
a/   Mainly retention money and other expenditures on account of works
constructed in Year 4.
b/   IDC:  Interest during construction and other loan charges.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.18      The civil engineering contract(s), totaling about uS$4.6 million
equivalent, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding. CDntractors could bid for the entire civil works or for either the
East Coast or West Coast parts separately. The Bank would approve the prop-l|-i
terms of reference and appointment of consultants (para. 5.04), specifications,
and other tender documents before issue; comment on all   bids; and approve
awards before they are made.
4.19      Disbursements from the loan account would be made i4ainst appro-
priate documentation covering 100 percent of the cif cost of the survey
launch and hydrographic equipment, 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of the consultants fees and an agreed percentage representing the foreign
,exchange portion of civil works contracts. Undisbursed amounts would be
available for cancellation; any excess over the estimated cost of the project
would be met by Government.
4.20      No retroactive financing of project costs is envisaged and no
contracts have been awarded in connection with the proposed project. Gov-
ernment has agreed that, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan, consultants acceptable to the Bank would be appointed to prenare Tender
documents and to supervise works. However, only costs incurred after the
dlate of signing would be met from the proposed loan (para 5.04).
Recovery of Project Costs
4.21      In accordance with the 1933 Ordinance (para. 2.06) the cost of the
proposed project would be financed from general revenues. Because of the
concentration of population and economic activity in the project area, this
would be tantamount to recovering the costs from the direct beneficiaries
(see Annex 6 for further details) and is considered reasoneble.



V. ONNW.rlP.I01'T A D MAJqAGEi!FT4T
Th.e Sea Defense Board
5. 01     The ';ea Defense Board would have certain statutory and advisory
powers (see para. 2.06") but would take no part in the execution of the proj-
ect. Tlhe possibilitv of strengthening the Board, so that it might play an
executive .ind financial role during later phases of the Sea Defense Program,
was considered during appraisal.  However, it was found that the technical
servrices provided bv the MoWH are indispensable and are inseparable from
the administrative organization; to build up the Sea Defense Board as an
administrative body would. involve unnecessary duplication of effort.  More-
over, it might Tipair the loard's present ability- to act quickly and effi-
ciently during emergencies.
The M';inistr__f Works and HydrauLlics
5.02      The organization of thie Mo1*1 is shown in Figure V. The routine
work of the MA1inistry, including minor sea defense projects and maintenance,
is carried out by District Engineers, who are supported by specialist divi-
sions in headquarters. The Hydraulics Division is responsible for planning
and design of both sea defense and of drainage and irrigation projects, and
soecialist engineers from the Division are placed in charge of major projects.
The Division includes a Research and Survey Section which undertakes hydro-
graphic surveys and the collection of clata for sea defense planning.
5.03      The main weakness of the Ministry is in the supervisory grades.
There are many vacancies but the young graduate engineers returning from
overseas training do not have the practical experience to supervise work
in the field. The Hydraulics Division also lacks experience in preparing
tender documents for large contr-acts.  It will therefore be necessary to
employ consulting engineers to review and revise tender documents before
issue, to supervi,e the opening, review and evaluation of bids, to advise
on the award of cpntr,sacts, an.d io supervise project works.  The MoVWH will
also require assistance in carrying out economic evaluations and the prepar-
ation of feasibility reports as well as in the technical testing of new
designs in a hydraulic laboratory.
Consultants
5.014     Government has agreed to appoint consultants acceptable to the
Bank on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, to (a) supervise project
works and (b) carry out various studies covered by the proposed loan.  Sep-
arate offers would be invited on an international basis although a single
firm could offer to cover both supervision and studies. The supervision
consultants would be required tc provide at least four engineers for supervision
and to assist the project manager.  They would be required to train at least
three MoWE engineers in site supervision. The consultants conducting the
studies would be required to maXe arrangements for necessary hydraulic and
other tests to be conducted in a laboratory acceptable to Government and
the Bank and to nrepare fea*ibil.i;,y studies.



- 15 -
Accounts and Audits
5.05      The MoWH is a self-accounting department and would maintain sep-
arate accounts for the project. The cost of any additional clerical staff
(who would also work on other projects in the Program) would be met by
Government. Project accounts would be auditted annually by the Director
of Audit, who will submit his report within four months of the end of the
fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS A4D JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      Evaluation of the project presents two main problems:-
(a)  The project works would provide only limited protection
(even to the land directly behind them), unless supported
by adjoining works; and
(b)  the nature of the benefits is unusual and may be quanti-
fied in different ways.
6.02      The first problem has been overcome by considering the cost of the
present project together with the cost of any other works necessary to pro-
tect the project area. The estimates for the latter were prepared on the
same general basis as project costs, details are given in Annex 7. Similar
cost estimates have been prepared for alternative methods of protecting the
project area from the sea.
6.03      To evaluate the rate of return of the Program, it has been neces-
sary to make assumptions regarding the benefits; these, and the methods
used, are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized below.
A. Benefits of the Program
6.o4      The proposed project, rather than being directly productive, is
part of a Program to protect existing production, strengthen the physical
environment essential for productive investment and help to establish a psy-
chological climate conducive to such investments. Only the first function -
the direct benefits - has been considered in detail although the indirect
benefits are of considerable importance to the development of the Guyanese
economy.
6.05      The direct benefits would be the eauivalent of the economic
losses avoided by making the investment in sea defenses, including the whole
range of economic activity that would be lost if the project area were pro-
gressively or suddenly inundated by the sea. However, only the two most
important activities, agriculture (including crop processing) and housing
have been quantified. In these cases, the benefits may be measured either
as:-



- 16 -
(a)  the annual. value of production and rentals that would
be lost; or
(b)  the capital cost of replacing agricultural land, crop
processing factories and houses in some other part of
the country.
The former method is preferred since the loss in annual production can be
estimated more accurately bthan replacement costs (see Annex 7).
6.o6      If no action, beyond the normal maintenance of existing defenses,
were taken, breaches would occur and the land would be progressively inun-
dated with sea water, making housing untenable and drastically reducing crop
yields. Simultaneously, land would be lost through erosion. The rate at
which these economic losses would occur would be determined by many factors,
ranging from the condition of the sea walls to the chance coincidence of
high spring tides and on-shore winds at a time in the erosion cycle when
the peak attack was centered on a poorly defended area.   For the purposes
of evaluation it has been assumed that all production of the area would be
lost in one erosion cycle of 30 years. Three different "loss curvest' have
been postulated, giving different rates and Datterns of destruction and
thus of benefits (see Annex 7, Figure A).
Benefits from Agriculture and Crop Processing
6.07      The benefits froin agricultural production and processing have
been estimated on the basis of the fob price of sugar and rice, and local
market prices for other crops, :Less production costs. Current prices have
been used for a2l crops except sugar; it is assumed that the fob price of
sugar will fall from the current overall average G$l1O per ton to an average
of CQ$168 per ton. 1/ (Annex 7, 'para 7),. Similarly, current prices have been
used for essential farm and fctory supplies. The benefits derived from agri-
culture are sumrarized below:
Arnual Va.lue
Sugar    Rice     Other     Total
-G~p million -
Fob or market value                  19.2    2.7        2.9       24.8
Less farm and factory supp:Lies        7.6    0.7       o.6        8.9
Annual value (incl. labor)            117     2.0       2.3       15.9
Less paid estate and farm labor        6.6    0.7       0.2        7.5
Net annual value                       5.0    1.3       2.1        8 4
(of which, due to processing)            )             (0.1)      (2°)
1/   Equivralent to 135 per ton (US 3.T5 cents per lb) fob for 960 sugar.
Rum and molasses were estinmated at 10 percent of the value of sugar
production, a decline of two percent from the 1966 figure.



- 17 -
6.08      These agricultural benefits take no account of the possibility
of improving rice yields through improved drainage nor of the greater pro-
duction made possible by the current program of introducing short term
rice varieties and encouraging double cropping. Similarly, no allowance is
made for increasing sugar production although the.aggressive research program
of the major estate group is likely to improve yields and small areas of new
land are being developed. These and similar increments must be regarded as
returns to supplementary investments, although such investments are unlikely
to be made unless the sea defenses are adequate.
Benefits from Housing
6.09      The numbers of houses in the project area and their current
market value are as follows:
No. of Houses    Current Market Value
(1967)            (G' million)
East Demerara               18,250                 168.9
West Demerara                8,750                  81.6
Total, Project Area    27,000                 250.5
In the absence of data on the level of rents in the project area', the value
of housing has been imputed as the return on the current market value at
rates of 5, 7 and 10 percent per annum (see Annex 7).  At 7 percent, which
is a conservative estimate of the return on capital in Guyana, the annual
benefit from housing in the project area. would rise to G$17.5 imillion.
B. Estimated Rate of Return
6.10      The economic rates of return derived from different assumptions
are given in Annex 7. Under the most probable set of circunstances (i.e.,
a constant rate of loss and a return of 7 percent on the market value of
housing), the rate of return would be about 31 percent. Fven if the rate
of loss is much lower than expected (see Annex 7 Fig. A), the rate of return
would still be about 24 percent.   If all benefits from housing were disregarded,
the return to agriculture and crop processing alone would be about 10 percent
at the constant rate of loss and about 9 percent if the rate of loss was
lower than expected.
6.11      These rates of return assume that the full cost of paid labor is
a production cost. However, there are virtually no alternative employment
opportunities, apart from subsistence farming. Further, unemployment is
estimated at around 20 percent in the project area and under-employment is
common, since about 55 percent of estate labor is seasonally employed. The
opportunity cost of labor, therefore, is very low. If all or part of the
agricultural wages paid in the project area were regarded as a benefit to
the economy, the rates of return would be even higher (see Annex 7 para
16).



- 18 -
Alternative methods of Protecting the Project Area
6.12      WIhile the economic benefits of the types of defenses proposed in
the Program are high, there remriins the possibility that delaying the works
or adopting other alternative methods might have economic or financial ad-
vantages. The two basic alternatives are:
(a)  to retreat slowly, throwing up new earth embankments
to replace those eroded away; and
(b)  to patch and repair existing defenses, containing
flooding wiith earth embankments reinforced with sheet
piling when breaches occur and building replacement
walls as soon as possible.
These alternatives are considered in Annex 7 wlhere it is shown that neither
has any advantage over the proposed project.
6.13      There is no financial or economic advantage in delaying the pro-
posed project. The UNDP/SF s-tudy provides adequate basis for prediction of
the onset of erosion and shows that sore works ir. Phase 1 must be started
immediately and that the maxiarlurn delay at any location would be less than
three years. The economies of scale obtained awarding large contracts for
the whole works would be considerable. Further, in most sections delays
would involve considerable increases in cost because of the need for tidal
working or for temporary cofferdams.   Due to the fact that most of the hinter-
land is unsuitable for agricultural production and to the prohibitive cost o-
rebuilding houses, factories, roads and canals, it would not be feasible to
relocate the affected population elsewhere in the country.
C. Fiscal I lmications of the Project
6.14      The project area cont:ributes about 16 percent of all Government
revenues. Since revenue.s are expected to increase by 7 percent per annum
until 1971 and by 5 percent thereafter, the revenue collected in the area
is expected to increase from G$13.2 million in 1965-67 to G$25.2 in
1972-79. 1/ This growth is unlikely to be achieved if the Sea Defense
Program is not implemented. Far fron increasing, revenues would probably
decline at much the same rate as agriciltural production.
6.15      During 1965-67, expenditure on sea defenses averaged G$2.8 million per
year.  No external assistance was received for sea defenses during this period,
and the expenditure accounted for about; 24 percent of the internal resources
(public savings plus internal borrowing) available for development projects.
Annual expenditures on the Program would increase to a maximum annual level
1/   These figures understate the irmortance of the project, area since it
plays a vital part in the economy of Georgetown itself, which alone
contributes 25.7 percept of revenues.



- 19 -
of about G$8.4 million during 1968-71, and thereafter decline. If only the
foreign exchange component of costs were financed externally, the local re-
sources required (including loan service costs) would account for 15 percent
of total estimated internal resources available in 1968-71 and 17 percent
thereafter. If external financing covered 70 percent of total costs - the
level foreseen by the IBRD Economic Mission for the immediate future - the
Sea Defense Program would require about 13 percent of estimated internal re-
sources during 1967-71 and 16 percent thereafter   see Annex 6).
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMWENDATIO'IS
7.01      The sea defenses for the East and West Coast Demerara Districts
play an important role in the economy of Guyana by protecting productive
areas. and the proposed project is well justified from the economic viewpoint.
The designs proposed are acceptable, the selection of sites is satisfactory,
and the cost estimates are realistic. Further studies are necessRry to
evolve lower cost designs and to allow a selection of sites for future phases
on the basis of economic priorities.
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5 million
equivalent for a period of 25 years including a five-year grace period. The
borrower would be the Government of Guyana.
7.03      Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  the Government would finance and construct the remaining
works in Phase 1 and would consult with the Bank regarding
the implementation of works for protecting Georgetown
and later phases of the Twelve-Year Program;
(b) a weighting of about 25 percent in favor of local stone
would be allowed in evaluating civil works bids based on
the alternatives of local and imported stone. Import
licences would be promptly issued if contracts are awarded
based on the use of imported stone (see para 4.o9).
(c)  the Bank would approve specifications and tender documents
before issue, and to review bids and evaluations and approve
the award of contracts (para 4.18);
(d) Government would appoint consultants acceptable to the
Bank to supervise project works and to carrv out further
studies, under terms of reference and conditions of employ-
ment acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.04).
September, 1968






)NNEX 1
'able 1
GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product and Contri-
bution of Praaoct Area for 1967
(at current factor cost)
Gross Dcmestic            Value Added in
Product a/              Project Area b/
-1 7       U        -     -1967 ---__
Value      % of Tota'.
-----       G$ mim=on -------------
Crop Production
Sugarcane                                34.3                9.9          29
Rice                                     13.0               1.0            8
Livestock                                10.7               0.2            2
Other                                     8.0               1.8           22
Crop Processing
Sugar                                    12.7                3.2          25
Rice                                      4.2               0.3            6
Sub-total Agriculture:              82.9              1604           20
Engineering and Construction             23.0                *
Distribution and Transport               70.3                *
Government                               50.0                *
Mining and Quarrying                     62.0               nil
Other
Total:                             369.9                *            *
(As percent of total)
(Agriculture)                      (22.4)
(Mining)                           (16.8)
Note:  * The value added by these activities has not been taken into
account in evaluation of the project. If included on a per
capita basis, they would increase the value added by the
project area to G$63.4 million or 17 percent of the total.
a/ Bank of Guyana Annual Report 1967.
b/ IBRD Appraisal Mission estimates.
August 2, 1968



ANE   1
Table 2
GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Value of National Exports and Production in Project Area (1966)
a/    Production in b/
National Exports -       Project Area 
1966                   1966
C-$ 000 --
Agriculture
Sugar                                    50,132                 20y568
Rice                                     2h,868                   2,662
Other                                     9,390                  2,946
Sub-total Agriculture:              84,390                 26,176
Beverages and Tobacco                     3,500                    *SC
Manufactured Goods                        6,740                     *
Miscellaneous Conmodities
and Transactions                       1,269                    *
Minerals                                 87,532                    nil
Fuels, Chemicals                          1,529                   nil
Machinery                                 1,548                    nil
Total:                             186,508
Note: * No estimates available: These items have not been taken into
account in evalu4ting the project.
a/ Bank of Guyana Annual Report 1966.
W/ IBRD Appraisal Missim Estimates.
cl Some run is manufactured in the project area.
August 2, 1968



ANNEX 1
Table 3
GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Govenuent Revenues and Re-venues from Pro ect Area
1960-1965 and 1966
Total Revenue -S        Estimated Revenue
Average                    from Project Area -
1960-65       1966      196      , of Total
--------     e000-.s _-_____
Taxation of Companies
mining                           3)3200     3,100        nil          -
Sugar                           6,300       l,0O.90c     570  /      30
Other                           5,600      10,800      1,188        11
P,ersonal Taxation                 5,900       9, 200     1,4¢72        16
Other Taxation & Receipts         Ul,900      13,000      2,979         21
Excise Duties
Rum and beer                    6,600       9,200      1,472         16
Other                             600         800        128        16
Taxation of E>xternal Trade
BWort duties: Sugar               290         270         78         29
Other              910      1,330        160         12
Import duties                  22,100      32,500      5,200         16
Total                             63,4oo      83,000     13,2147       16
a/ IBRD Economic Reilew. Report WN-169b; April 1967.
bI IBRD Appraisal Missicn estimate.
c/ Sugar company tax;tion was low in 1966 because of unusually high allowances
for investments in factory rehabilitation, etc.
August 2, 1968






ANNEX 2
Page 1
GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
COASTAL EROSION AND SEA DEFENSES IN GUYANA
1.        A thorough investigation into the hydrography and oceanography,
the hydraulics and sedimentology of the coastal area of Guyana, mainly
in the vicinity of the Demerara River, was carried out in 1962 by the
Delft Hydraulic Laboratory in cooperation with NEDECO. The Bank acted
as executive agent for the UNDP Special Fund for this project.
A. CYCLIC EROSION
2.        The report on the Demerara Coastal Investigation shows that
large mud banks (called macro-ripples) are joined to the coast at inter-
vals of approxiaattly 25 miles. In the troughs between these local banks,
waves and moderate swells occur from the northeast, resulting in erosion
of the beach material on the western side of the troughs. There are no
swells on the eastqrn side of the trough, because of the dampening effects
of the sling-mud Y. The macro-ripples move in a westward direction at
a rate of about three-quarters of a mile per year (mpy) causing the
erosion of the coast line to move westwards at the tame rate, i.e. the
erosion cycle for any one area is about 30 years. As the macro-ripple
moves on, erosion is followed by a period of accretion.
3.        Although it is possible to foresee from this pattern when an
area will feel the effects of intense erosion, it is difficult to predict
accurately when the erosion will actually affect sea-defense structures.
This depends upon the actual widths of foreshore at mean high tide, the
type of beach material, the intensity of wave action and the duration of
wave attacks.
4.        Erosion may continue in the same area for as long as six years
or more and may even extend back eastwards into an area where accretion
has already begun, in spite of the general 3/4 upy westward movement.
Such conditions have actually been experienced.
5.        Hydrographic investigations of the East Demerara Coast indicate
that within the next three years the erosion cycle will affect the area
from Beterveragting bo Georgetin. The attack will continue over a period
of at least ten years in varying degrees of intensity, and new sea defenses
y/ Sling-mud is one of the most remarkable phenomena of the Guyana coast.
It is formed by the orbital movement of water particles stirring up
the partly liquid, partly plastic mass of mud resting on the seabed.
The mud particles are moved, consuming so much energy that the waves
are dampened out. Areas of sling-mud can be readily spotted from the
air and their presence is easily detected from small boats. Their
arrival usually heralds the beginning of accretion.



ANNEX 2
rag-e 2
are urgently needed. Further east along the coast between Ennore and
Nootenzuiil, where ascretion had begun, severe local erosion is attacking
the inadequate defenses and new defenses are urgently required.
6.        Little hydrographic data have yet been collected on the West
Demerara Coast and the exact pattern of erosion is not known. The pattern
is not the same as that on the East Coast Demerara because the Demerara
and the Essequibo rivers influence the erosion depth on the foreshore
but further investigations are required to determine whether a pattern
or cycle exists. Local foreshore erosion is taking place and many sections
require imaediate attention.
B. WAVE CHARACTERISTICS
7.        Most of the information available on waves and hydraulic
conditions was obtained during the investigations carrid out by the
Delft Laboratory in 1960-62. Most of these investigations were carried
out on the East Coast of Demerara and in the vicinity of Georgetown and
there is very little informat.ion on other parts of the coast. Informa-
tion for other parts of the coast is urgently required for present and
future construction and it is of utmost importance that the Hydraulics
Division acquire the necessary equipment to execute the required lmasure-
ments as soon as possible.
8.        The coastal plain between the Demerara and Mahaica Rivers is
built up principally of very fine colloidal clays, resting on sand and
sand-clays. This clay belt also extends under the ocean for approxi-
mately another 20 miles, and -it has a thickness of more than 100 ft in
most places. There is a rather flat continental shelf which is about
150 miles wide.
5.        The directici of the prevailing wind is north-easterly and
its strength varies daily as well as yearly. The wind increases after
dawn and is fairly constant duLring the day, but after sunset it slackens
again.  Wind velocities are greatest during the early months of the year,
and smallest at mid-year.  Wind speeds of 8-12 knots are very common,
and extreme values at sea are roughly 5 and 20 knots.
10.       The wind has a 'fetch' of several hundred miles, and is res-
ponsible for the equatorial current which appears in the open sea off
the South American coast and runs fron south-east to north-west. It
also creates long ocean swells, which wash onto the continental shelf,
and shorter local waves which are superimposed on the larger ones.
Resulting fran the wind and waves there is a littoral drift along the
coast iroa east to west.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       The tide approaches the coast from the north-east, is semidi-
urnal, and has an amplitude which varies on an average from 4 ft at
neap tide to 9 ft at spring tide (Fig. I). Rarely is the amplitude
as small as 3 ft or as big as 10 ft. Mean high water spring is 50.04
CieorgetDown datum (GD) and mean low water spring (MLWS) is 46.24 GD.
The Admiralty datum, from which fathom contours are measured, is 1.1 ft
below the MLWS, i.e. at 45.14 GD. The highest tide so far recorded
was on ilugust 7, 1956 and reached a level of 56.24 GD. The direction
of the tide is not always perpendicular to the coast, and thus alter-
nating currents occur both perpendicular and parailel to it.   These
currents, along with the equitorial currents and the waves, act on
the coast and cause the regular movement of material which accounts
for the cyclic erosion pattern. 
12.       Waves along the coast of Guyana are of short period and the
original direction of propagation of deep seawaves is about north 2600
east. There are two distinct periods of wave activity; a rough period
between November and April and a calm period for the rest of the year.
During the rough periods wind speeds exceed 20 ft,per second with a
wave height of 4 ft in a period of 10 seconds. During the calm period
winds are 15 feet/second with a wave height of 1.3 ft in a period of 7.5
seconds.
13.       The predominant factor affecting the intensity of the wave
energy is the presence of sling-mud resulting in varying wave patterns
over a given area. The maximum intensity of wave action is felt in
the center of the gap between two adjacent banks of sling-mud. Waves
travelling over the sling-mud are weakened, affording protection to the
areas that are in their geometric shadow. The presence of the four
large rivers also has an effect on the wave patterns, particularly during
the rainy season, when the flows of the rivers are at their maximum.
This is mDst noticeable in the areas between the Demerara and the
Essequibo rivers.
14.       In the areas of maximum wave energy the largest orbital velo-
cities appear and as a consequence these are the areas of heaviest
erosion. The level to which the foreshore may drop during erosion
determines the type of construction to be used; as the lower the fore-
shore the deeper the water and the greater the wave action.
15.       Wave characteristics play an extremely important part in the
final selection of the type of wall to be built in any particular area.
They determine to a large extent the type of coping, depth of toe piling,
type of revetment and foreshore protection to be constructed. No accurate
recordings of wave heights incidence on the exposed sections of the wall
are available. Designs were based on a 6-ft wave with a nine second
period, as recommended by the Delft Laboratory.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
C, EX.ISTIN  SEA DFENSES
16.       The present day sea defenses comprise:
Miles
Natural shel reefs, sand bars and
clay banks                                  25.2
Earth embankments                             132.2
(ld walls, sheet, jwnd timber piles            40.1
New walls                                       5.
Groynes, other structures or un-
protected, apprca:                          67.5
270e0
Earth Dibanknents
17        These embankzmnts, giuarded by a wide foreshore, are located
well away from wave action, and are mainly to prevent flooding by the
setting of the high tide. The crown level of the embankment is 60.00
GD and is designed on a 1:3 slope. Such embankments will withstand the
incoming tide even when the foreshore is eroded to the level of 49.00
GD. T'he top of the embankJent is 10-16 ft wide to accommodate con-
struction traffic.
COLd Wals
18.       CLd waUls are rehabiLitated. prior to their exposure to wave
action where predictirins shori that these wcrld be severe (as on the
east and west coast of Demeraxa). Depending on the state of the old
walls, rehabilitation is done in two stages - the reconstruction of
the lower section, i.e. toe piling and revetmnent (to a level between
55.00 and 60,00 GDW followfed by the reconstruction of the upper section.
New Walls and iavetment
19.       These structures are built on an earth embankment where further
erosion threatens the safety of the embanknent aad when repairs become
impractical. The height, of walls and revetments are designed to with-
stand fullyr the forces of the sea.
20e       Groynes, alt.hough used successfully for sea defenses in many
countries, have little effect o foreshore conditicnsin the project area where
the material is mainly clay, as the erosion in the lee of the current
may undermine the structure. Ths has been proved by experience and



ANNEX 2
Page 5
during investigations made by the Delft Hydraulic Laboratory. In sandy
areas of the Essequibo River coast, however, groynes have proved success-
ful.
D. DESIGN OF EYdUNK1ENTS AND NEW WALLS FOR THE PROJECT AREA
21.       The design of sea defense embankments deals principally with
foundation stability, as lack of such stability is the main reason for
failure of embankments or their foundations.
22.       The soil comprises a thin top layer of firm clay, and below
1. very poor clay with a high moisture content. Once the material of
the sub-soil is dried out it forms a firm clay which, with proper con-
paction, can develop a sheer strength of 800 lb/sq ft. Without treatment
the top soil has a sheer strength of approximately 450-500 lb/sq ft and
the sub-soil a strength of 120-220 lb/sq ft.
23.       Because of the low sheer strength of the clay, the commonest
type of failure is a rotational slide (slip circle). This occurs mainly
where the level of the foreshore drops below 45.00 GD. BEbanlkments are
constructed in layers allowing for consolidation before the following
layer is put on. The limit in height to which the embankment could be
built without improving the sub-sooil is 60.00 GD, i.e., 9 ft above the
existing ground level. To build a higher embankment world require stage
construction over 2-1/2 years.
22.       In areas where overtopping occurs, protection is given to the
landward slope of the embankment. Heavy rainfall too can form channels
in the landward slope of the embankment, accelerating erosion and in-
creasing the likelihood of failure. Where grass does not grow because of
the salinity of the soil, artificial protection of these slopes must be
provided.
25.       Oa the seaward side, the embankment is protected by a revetment
of boulder embedded in cements placed on a layer of polyethylene sheeting.
The latter prevents the washing out of the clay particles in the event
of cracking of the revetment, and maintains a constant moisture content
of the ground thus reducing the possibility of settlement. A three-inch
thick layer of sandcrete is spread over the polyethylene sheeting to prevent
damage during the construction of the boulder revetment.
26.       At the toe of the embankment, 12 to 15-ft long steel sheet-piles
are driven to 48.00 GD. The sheet-piles add stability against slipping
and prevent scouring from under the embankment when deep erosion occurs.
27.       Where it is expected that the foreshore will erode below 48.00
GD, Gabion baskets are placed 26 to 52 ft seaward of the sheet-piles.
These stone-filled baskets prevent scouring by return currents and provide



ANNEX 2
Page 6
protection at the node of the wave where erosion forces are greatest.
In addition they further the stability of the embankment by suppressing
the flow of the soft clay an.d intersecting the slip circle. In the
event of the severe drop of the foreshore the baskets are flexible
enough to bend and assume the shape of the eroded foreshore thus giving
added protection to the toe of the wall.
28.       Where heavy wave att.acks are expected, a berm 2  is incorporated
in the sea wall. The berm ass:ists in breaking the waves thus reducing
the force of uprush and decreasing the overtopping. Landward of the
berm or at end of the boulder slope is a reinforced concrete coping
structure with a curved return wall to turn back the wave uprush.
29.       The designs for Phase 1 of the Sea Defense Program are based
upon local experience but include many features proposed in the UNDP
study and in a report by the U.D Army Corps of Eagineers. The designs have
many common features which are intended to overcxe the normal causes of
failures, i.e.,
(a) Unequal volume changes of moisture content in the
embaakent, which lead to cracking and erosion of
meterial fronm >>hind the wall facing.
(b)  Differential settlement due to consolidation, and
slipping due to foundation failures, which lead
to overtopping and fracture of the coping by waves.
(c)  Undermining of the wall by wave attack or by rain
and floodwaters on the landward side.
30e       Three desigrs are proposed for project works:
(a)  type I is for use on those parts of the East Coast where
oGi&nditions are most severe, i.e., where the sea bed
shelves steeply and a prolonged erosion attack is predicted
within the next few years. Hydraulic tests have shown that
the proposed wave screen will prevent overtopping by a2UL
but 2 percent of predi Xted waves. A flexible mattress ,of
stone-filled gaebions A/ protects the toe of the revetment.
1/  Bermi: a level seetion, paved with concrete or with boulders embedded
in concrete, at the top of the sloping revetment.
2/  Baskets of plastic-coatedl steel mesh measuring 4 x 1 x 0.3 m. ¶hey
are assembled in situ and -vired t,:gether before being filled with
stanest lids MiiT;=H secu.red with wires. Gabionr aLre patented
items, imported from Italy: the total cost of gabions included in
the project is US$360,000.



AINEX 2
Page 7
The estimated cost of Type I walls is G$626 per running
foot (US$1.7 millian per mile).
(b) Type 2 is for use under less severe conditions on the
Mat oast.    The revetment is the same as Type I, but the
crost is 0.5 ft lower and the wave screen less elaborate.
Siace Type 2 walls will be used only in areas under local
attack, the gabioa mattress will not be included at this
time IWt it can be installed, if necessary, before the
next cyclical attack, expected in 1975/7. The estimated
cost of Type 2 walls is G$362 per running foot (US$1.0 million
per mile).
(c)  T      is for use only on the West Coast where hydraulic
cond tions are not severe. No berms or gabions are neces-
sary but, because of large variations in the profile of
the existing embankments, additional bulkheads are needed
to support the revetment. The estimated cost iF G$297-
per running foot (US$0.8 million per mile).
Accessibility to Project Sites
31.       There are access roads to al1 the work sites but these are
mainly fair weather roads, impassable during a prolonged period of rain.
At some sites the embankments of the existing sea defenses could be
utilized as access roads though heavy rain could turn them into quagmires
and camae damage to the embaniments. The cost of paving the access roads
has been included in the cost of the project.
32.       In some cases because of lack of soil for embankments, material
is obtained by digging facade trenches. The cost of bridging these trenches
has also been included in project costs.
Working Under Tidal Conditions
33.       The tides in Guyana are semi-diurnal and it is possible to work
two periods per 2h hours on tidal construction.   Because of the prevailing
winds, high tides come in quickly but recede very slowly, limiting the
working time to a maximum of six hours.
34.       In some areas where the foreshore falls below 48.00 GD further
substantial empoldering of the working area is sometimes necessary if
work is to be carried out at every tide, otherwise work can only be
carried out for six to eight days per month during the p.pring tides.
Even with a dofferdam around working areap substantial pumping still
has to be carried out. Night work would be feasible only if conditions
for proper control can be guaranteed. 'Whenever possible, therefore,



ANNEX 2
Page 
efforts should be made to construct walls before the erosion of the
foreshore makes work under tidal conditions necessary. In most areas
if work is started immediately, it can still be executed in relatively
easy conditions. However, at some places local erosion has gone too far
and tidal work will be requLred.
E. SURVEYING, AND HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEYS
35.       Records show that the first surveys of the shores of Guyma
were made prior to 1841 by the. Spanish Navy, and in 1852 the first
chart of the entire coastline was prepared by the British Admiralty
for navigation purposes. In 1.858 the British Navy surveyed the estuary
of the Demerara river but it swas not until 1957 that a resurvey of the
coastline east of the Demerara river was started. The last assignment
by the Admiralty was carried cut in 1963.
Surveys
36.       In 1933 a disastrous breach occurred on the East Coast of
Demerara resulting in a total loss of a stretch of land of some 10,000
ft long and 1,500 ft wide. This led to the first hydrographic survey
by the Public Works Department (now the MoWH) in the area at present
suggested as a Bank project.. This survey extended seaward to a depth of
three fathoms. Further surveys were carried out regularly and later
extended to include parts of West Coast Demerara.
37.       In their report, the Delft Hydraulic Laboratory recocended
that the entire coastline of' the country should be surveyed annually
to form the basis of general sea defense planning, and that the section
lines should extend 10 to 12 miles seaward at intervals of about two
miles. In addition an annuual survey of the areas where sea defense
walls are constructed is recommended in order to check conditions and
to provide adequate knowledge of the coastal changes necessary for proper
maintenance planning.  The MoWN has been unable to fulfill all of these
recommendations because of lack of adequate equipment.
38.       During periods of erosion, the 5 and 6 fathom lines are found
within 6 to 8 miles of the shoreline but it is unknown where on the
continental shelf the erosion ccmmenced. It is also unknown how far
out thLe build-up extends on th-e shelf during the accretion cycle. A
fuller knowledge of these pheaacmena can be obtained only by extending
surveys further off-shore. Such surveys would require larger craft than
the in-shore launches now used by the MoWH. The 12-year '3ea Defense
Program included a proposal for the purchase of an off-shor, survey
ship at a cost of G$l million (US$0.5 million equivalent). However,
the Bank does not consider that such a large expenditure can be Justified
at the present time, and suggests a smaller survey boat costing G$150,000
(US$75,oo0).
Ceptemlher 6, 1968



ANNEX 3
Page 1
G U Y A N A
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
THE 12- YEAR SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM1
1.        The 12-Year Sea Defense Program 1/ is an attempt to "define
the sea defense problems of Guyana and to present realistic and non-
ambitions prograrmes extending for the next 12 years to solve these
problems.1'
2.        The report includes detailed studies, including designs and
sample economic surveys, of the works to be included in Phase 1 (1968-71),
Unavoidably, the proposals for later phases are merely indicative. Phase
1 includes provision for technical, hydrographic and economic studies
to prepare detailed designs and feasibility studies for later phases.
3.        The aims of the program are:-
a) to provide a reasonable degree of protection to all
parts of the coastal plain,
b)  to reclaim about 10,000 acres of land, mainly tidal
salt flats, for agriculture and housing,
c) to improve drainage in selected areas
4.        The works required to achieve these objectives are estimated
as follows:-
Phase 1         Later Phases         Total
1968-71             1972-79            1968-7 
-   - - - - - - - -(miles )-
Rehabilitation of existing
sea walls          3.4                 9.7               13.1
Construction of new walls:-
on sea coast       9.1                 5.8               14.9
on rivers           -                  4.5                4.5
Construction of breakwater   1.4                  -                 1.4
Construction of earth
embankments       26.5               53.4                79.9
40.4               73.4              113.8
New drainage outfalls (nos)   -                  13                13
Area reclaimed (acres)       160                10,000             10,160
17 ~IAProposed Program of Sea Defense I&Jorks in Guyana Vol. 1  higineering
and Vol. 2 Economics". Hydraulics Division, ŽMnistry of Wlorks and
is,draulics, Georgetown, February 1968.



ANMEX 3
Page 2
5.        The original estimate of the cost of the 12-Year Program
was G$72 million (US$36 million equivalent), of which G$21 million
would be included on Phase 1. However, many necessary items, such
as consultants'fees and contractors profits, were explicitly excluded
from the estimatem. The revised estimate,prepared on the same basis as
the revised project costs, is G$93 million, comprising:-
Phase I          Iater Phases        Total
1972-79          l768-79
.(G$ million))-
Greater Georgetown a/           9.3                  2.7            12.0
Demerara Coasts                19.7                 15.3            35.0
Other Areas                     4.5                 41.5            46.0
33.5                 59.5            93.0
a/  Greater Georgetown includes suburban areas outside the present town
council boundary and coaprises SDi 1-20
6.        The areas select,ed for much of the investment in Fhase 1 -
Georgetown aud the Demerara Coasts - were chosen a priori because of
their high economic value. In these areas, the cyclic erosion pattern
provides a basis for establishing priorities within the Program. The
existing defenses and proposed works in these areas are shown in Table 1.
7.        The need for considering the Program as an entity in evaluating
the proposed project is illustrated in Table 1. For examplej the project
sea wall on the Fast Demei'ara Coast at SD# 22-23 and the adjoining section
at SD,, 33-35 are interdependent.  If SD#' 33-35 is not built, the sea
will breach thie embankment. The resulting floods (unless contained
by very expensive emergency measures) will spread laterally and will
not only affect production and property immediately behind the project
wall but will also erode the project embankm2ent from behind, endangering
the wall itself.
Ai2gust 2, 1968



G il Y A N A
S_A !IEENSES 'ROjF.CT
12-Year Sea Defense Prograr
Cyclical
5i stri ct          Secti on           Existf np Defense           Di stance Inland           Erosion   Expected            Pronosed Construction            Pronosed Source
TsD77-                                          from shore                on shore  on defense          Year      Tyoe  /                 of finance
Greater                  1-4           Old vall, no coping               250-300                   1970       1971/2- -          1970/1      b/ bI
G                        4own   I-8    Old wall, with coping               0-250                   1969       1969/71            1969/70     c/                      b/
e0sltp 3 j              8-9ditto                                         250                      1969      1971/2             1968        U                     Force a/c
9-16          Earth bank                         250                      1968      1969/70            1968/70     4                        UK
16-20          Concrete wall                       1,900                   now       1972/73            1972/3      4                     (Phase 2)
East Demerara           20-22          Concrete wall                       1,900                   nov        1972/73-          . 1972/3     i                    (Phase 2)
(Map 37                22-33          Earth bank and old walls            1,S00                   now       1970/73            1969/71     1                      IBRD
33-35          Earth bank                           Lho                    nov       1968/69            1968        1                    Force a/c
36-39          Now Type 1 walls                       0                    -         now                 -          -
39-h           Earth bank and old walls            0-1,000                 1980      1981               1978         ?                    (Phase 3)
h-64          nWalls built in 1950/60              0-1,000                 1978      1078/80            ).978/80     ?                     Phase 3)
64-73          Earth 'ank                        100-200                   1971/4    197LI/5            1969/71     2                      TIRD
73-74          Earth bank                        100-200                   (local)    (local)           1968         2                   Force a/c
7h-75          Old wall                          100-200                   (local)    (local)           1969/71     5                      IBRD
i 5-92         Earth bank and old walls                                    1971/A    197?/5             1974/5       ?                    (Phase 2)
West Demerara            2-3           Old wall                              500                   1975       1977/81            1971        ?                    (Phase 2)
(ilan 4l) T3-4                        Earth bank                            Z.                    (local)   (local)            1971        6                    Fo:rc  R/c
10-11          Earth bank                            600                   (local)    (local)            1077       6                    For,
11-15          Old Eall                              600                    1974/9   1977/81             ]97         ?                    (?nase 2)
(2-23)         (Rehabilitation of banks)              -                    _         -                  1968        -                    Force a/c
22-24          Earth bank and old vall                -                    1975/9    1977/81            1972         7                    (Phase 2)
24            Old vall                               -                    (local)   (local)            1969        6                        UK
25            Old wall                               -                    (local)    (local)           1971        6                    Force a,/o
25-32          Iart)- bank
33-34          Old wall                              600                   1975/9     1977/81           197i         7                    (Phase 2)
3s-52          Old vall                               -                    (local)    (local)            1969/71     6                       UK
53-57          Eartn bank                        100-1,000                 1975/9    1975/81            1974/9       ?                    (Phase 2 and 3)
57-60          Concrete wall                        0                      -         -                   -           -
60-62          Earth bank                            300                   now       1970/1              1969/70     3                     IBRD
62-4           Earth bank                            1,600                 nov       1980                -           -
64-68          None                                0-200                   nov       1969/70             1969        3                     I3RD
58-70          Old walls and banks
70-74          Old walls and banks               100-300                   1973/7    1973/7              1973        ?                    (Phase 2)
75            New wall
76-77          Earth bank                        200-500                   nov       1971                1969/70     3                     IBRD
78            Earth bank                          0                       now       nov                 1968        3                   Foce a/c
78-90          Earth bank aud river defenses          -
NCT3S: a/ Details of types of wall are given in Annex 2 and Figs. II and III.                                                                                g
Z/  Proposals for the defenses of the 9eorgetown esplanade have not heen finalized:   Drovision for the cost of studies is made in the              co
Drooneed -roject.
C/ Rehabilitation of this sect:on is now in -ro.ress (Force a/c)                                                                                    (DX
August 2, 1968






GUYANA ~   ~    ~   ~   NNX 
G U Y A N A
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Project Area - Crops and Cropping
East Coast         West Coast       Project
Demerara           DGmerara         Area
- - -            acres - - - - - - -
Sugar cane:   estate            18,350           13,522           31,872
: outgrower           2,398               358            2,756
Rice: main crop                  1,868             7,127           8,995
(second crop)       (342)           (5,527)          (5,869)
Coconuts                         6,1407            3,381           9,788
Ground crops                       593               409           1,002
Gardens                          1,824               875           2,699
Pasture                            490               314             804
Rough gra4ing                    1,468             2,788           h4,256
Fallow, canals, waste           13,602             8,226          21,828
Sub-total, agriculture          47,000            37,000          84,000
Non-agricultural uses           12,000             5,000          17,000
GROSS AREA            59,000           42,000          101,000
August=== 2====1968             =    ==== ===
August 2, 1968






GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total     Exchange
Currency    Exchange      Cost    Percentage
- - - -GT      -  - -
CONSTRUCTION
Preparatory works                    230          230       46o         50
East Coast Demerara:
21,230 ft sea wall               2,730        5,o60     7,790        65
7 drainage outfalls                100          200       300        66
2,830        5,260     8,ogo         65
West Coast Demerara:
5,000 ft sea wall                  41o          600     1,010        60
2 drainage outfalls                 0        .   80       120        66
45o          680      1,130        61
Engineering fees, supervision
(15 percent)                         690          690     1,380        50
Sub-total, Construction            4,200        6,860    11,060
PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT
Survey launch                          -          150       150        100
Navigation aids                                   120       120        100
Wave recorders (3)                                 50        50        100
Miscellaneous instruments                         120       120        100
_           h4O      40o        100
TESTS AND STUDIES
Consultants' fees                    100          240       340         70
Laboratory and test fees:
Sea wall design                                 200       200        100
Breakwater                                      260       260        100
-6o 060              100
Sub-total, Tests and Studies         100          700       800        88
Sub-total, Project Works             4,3O         8,000    12,300        65
CONTINGENCIES                          700        1,000     1,700        58
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                        950       950       100
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST                  5,000        9,950   1T,950         66
(US$oo00 Equivalent)                 (2,500)      (4,975)   (7,h75)
September 6, 1968






AINNf 6
Page 1
G U Y A N A
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
1.        The Sea Defense Ordinance, 1933, was amended in 1937 to provide
that:
"From the 1st January, 1937, all costs and charges
incurred in the construction or maintehance of any sea
defense together wiQt all expenses of administration shall
be defrayed from such moneys as may be provided from time
to time by the Legislative Council:
Provided that  ..... the City of Georgetown shall
contribute ..... by payment annually ..... of G$2,500.00".
2.        The 1967 IBRD mission, in recommending that the level of
expenditure on sea defenses should be raised to G$4-5 million annually,
stated:
"This is essentially a problem for central budget
management. However, it raises such questions as to
whether a general welfare type of infrastructure such as
sea wall defenses, with particular assignable value to
agricultural landowmers and other property holders on and
just back of the sea defense area, might not warrant the
application of special benefit taxes as a source of
additional revenues to finance both part of the construc-
tion cost as well as maintenance costs of such defenses.
The mission has raised such questions with the Government
of Guyana without itself having established or taken any
fixed position; but it thinks that such questions deserve
serious consideration by Government."
3.        It may be noted that special benefit taxes are used in Guyana.
For example, the Drainage and Irrigation Board has powers, under a
1940 Ordinance, to apportion the cost of construction, maintenance and
administration to proprietors and local authorities in declared areas
on an acreage basis. There is little doubt, however, that a similar
special benefit tax for sea defenses would meet severe popular opposition.
Sea defenses are regarded as a "national war effort against the sea',
and their cost is viewed in the same light as conventional defense
expenditures.
4.        Even if this deep-seated popular view could be overcome, and
the Sea Defense Ordinance repealed or revised, there would be serious
practical difficulties in apportioning a special benefit tax on an



ANNEX 6
Page 2
equitable basis.  The beneficiaries of a sea defense project cannot be desig-
nated with the accuracy that. . possible, for example, in a drainage and
irrigation scheme. However, since most cf the population live and work below
sea level, almost a:Ll may be said to be beneficiaries of the Sea Defense   I
Program of which the project is. a part. The seasonal estate workers or small
farmers, who pay least in general taxes, may benefit least since they have
1ittle to lose and could eke out a liveLihood from subsistence farming in the
riverain areas or the interior.  At the other end of the scale the sugar es-
tates and entrepreneurs, who contribute heavily to general revenues, will
benefit most from the completed Sea Defense Program.
5.      Since the Program must proceed in a series of projects, it is inevi-
table that sonme areas will benefit from efficient defenses before others,
thuF strengthening the case for a special benefit tax. However, the experience
of the Drainage and Irrigation Board has shown that, under present circumstances,
it is not possible to collect these taxes equitably.   Government itself pays
about 55 percent of the taxes apportioned by the Drainage and Irrigation Board:
the actual collections from private proprietors and local authorities is no
more than 20 percent of the tax due and thu- there are very large outstanding
arrears.  Under the preEent Local Authority system, the amounts that could
be raised by a special benefit tax on sea defenses would be small lJ and the
co.st of collection might well exceed the additional revenues generated.
6.      Government is well aware of the shortcomings of the present Local
Authority system and two measures to improve it are awaiting presentation to
the Legislature../ If these measures are enacted, the Greater Georgetown area
will be unified under alsingle authori-ty; local district councils will be set
up for the whole country; and ratable values assessed on a uniform basis. It
will then be possible to improve the efficiency of local tax collection and
to include sea defense benefits as an element of ratable values.   However, the
passage and implementation of the proposed legislation - which are based upon
a report written prior to independence - will be a lengthy process.   Most of
the population may well be benefitting from the cea Defense Program by the
time that a special benefits tax could be collected efficiently in indiVidual
project areas.
7.     !While the imposition of a special benefit tax to recover the cost
of the project would in principle be desirable, des ite the aforementioned
difficulties, in the case of the proposed project, the same effect in essence
would be achieved by increases in general revenues. Nearly 95 percent of
Guyana's population resides in the coastal areas and is mostly concentrated
in the project area of East and TWest Demerara. The sea defense works afford
protection not only to the lands immediately behind such works but to the
economy of the entire East and West Demerara areas. (See Annex 7). In these
I/ It would be relatively easy to impose a special benefit tax on sugar
estates and, perhaps, rice mills but it would. be inequitable to do so
unless other re.sidential and rural areas were also taxed.
2/ The Municipal and Districts Council Bill and the Valuations for Pating
Purposes Bill.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
peculiar circunstances, where in the project area there is concentration
o population and economic activity, a recovery of the cost of the proposed
pioject through increases in general revenues would be more or less tantamount
to recovering the costs from the direct beneficiary of the project.
Program Costs and Revenues
8.        The average annual expenditures on sea defenses in recent years
are compared with actual and expected general revenues in Table 1. The
estimates assume that revenues will increase by seven percent per year until
1971 and by five percent thereafter. Provided thlat Guyana can obtain external
assistance to cover 65 percent of the cost of the Program, the net expenditure
on sea defenses, including debt service costs, 2/ will be about 2.8 percent
of the estimated revenues. If it is assumed that extern;l assistance would
be obtained only for works in Phase 1 and that all subseqluent works would be
financed fron local resources, the net expenditure (including debt service
costs) would average G$8.9 million per year, equivalent to 5.6 percent of
revenues, during 1972-79.
9.        The IBRD 1967 Economic Mission 9 considered that the current
account surplus could be raised fran about G$4 million in 1967 to G$8 million
in 1969 and G$13 million in 1970-72 provided that increases in current
expenditures were held to five percent per year (as compared to 10 percent in
recent years) and strenuous efforts made to reduce direct and indirect
subsidies and to improve efficiency of tax collection. Savings of public
corporations (which were expected to rise for G$4 million to G$5 million by
1970-72) and internal borrowings (a constant G$4 million) would increase the
total internal resources to about G$24 million (see Table 2). During 1965-67,
sea defense expenditures were financed entirely frmn local rescurces, accounting
for nearly 24 percent of the total available.  If external assistance is
obtained for an average of 65 percent of the cost of the Program, the proportion
of total internal resources used for sea defenses would fall to 15-17 percent,
includirng loan service costs. If 70 percent of the cost was financed externally -
i.e., the level assumed by the IBRD Economic Mission - the proportion of total
internal resources devoted to sea defenses would be 13-16 percent.
1/ Debt service costs have been estimated at an average of six percent
over 25 years, including five years grace in repayment of principal.
2/  IBRD Report WH - 169 b, Chapters IV, V and Table 27.
September 6, 1968






GUYANA
SEA DE?ENS. PROJECT
Program Costs and Revenues
Actual                 Estimated                Estimated
1965-67            .-- 1268-71                   1972-79   .
Cost      Revenue        Cost      Revenue        Cost      Revenue
--------------G$ '000 per year------------------------
Georgetown                                -         21,300       2,330       27,100         320       41,000
East and West Dazmerara Coast           2,163       13,200       4,930       16,900       1,905       25,600
Other Coasts                              774         NA         1,140        NA          5,175        NA
TOTAL SEA DEFENSE EXPENDITURE           2,937                    8,400                    7,400
Less: external loans and granta           -                      5,460                    4,800
Plus: debt service costs                  -                                               1,500
NET SEA DEFENSE EXPENDITURE             2,937                    2,940                    4,100
Other Revenues                                      47,500                   61,400                   93100
82,000                  105,400                  159,600
___-----------------percent of total revenues----------------------
Total Sea Defense Expenditure            3.5                      8.0                      4.6
Net Sea Defense Expenditure              3.5                      2.8                      2.6
August 2, 1968



ANNEX 6
Table 2
G U YA N A
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Program Costs and Internal Resources
Actual         Estimated        Estimated
165>-67        1968-71          1972-79
- --G$'000 per year- - - -
Internal Resources a/
Public savings:  Government      3,100          11,500           15,000
: public corpora-
tions      na            4,oOo             5,000
Internal borrowings and
other b/  11,300            4,000            .000
Total internal resources  12,000           19,500           24,000
Internal Resources Used
for Sea Defenses c/         2,937           2,940            4.100
(percent of total)              (24)            (15)            (17)
a/  IBRD Report WH - 169 b, Table 27
b/ Excluding special distribution of BCCB assets in 1967 (GS3.5 million)
c/ See Annex 6 Table I
August 2, 1968



ANNEX 7
Page 1
GU Y A N A
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
EVALUATION OF ECONOMIC BENEFITS
OF TBE SEA DEFEINE PROGRAM
1.        The economic return of the Twelve-rear Sea Defense Program
has been evaluated by two methods, (a) on the basis of annual production
and imputed rentals that would be lost if the project area were inundated
and eroded, and (b) on the basis of the estimated capital cost of repla-
cing houses, factories, agricultural land and other assets elsewhere.
In each case, these values have been compared with the cost of carrying
out not only the Program itself but such subsequent replacements as seem
necessary to ensure the safety of the project area. In each case it
has been necossary to make assumptions regarding the rate at which
production would be lost, or replacements required, due to the ingress
of the sea.
Sea Defense Costs for Economic Evaluation
2.        In estimating costs for future phases of the Program and
subsequent works, it has been assumed that unit costs will remain constant,
i.e., that reductions in quantities and other economies resulting from
studies of improved designs will offset expected price escalations.
Table 1 shows the estimated expenditure on sea defenses in the project
area until 1983: thereafter, only maintenance costs (estimated at
G$2.00 per foot run per year) would be incurred. Because of country-
wide unemployment and underemployment, the opportunity cost of labor
has been taken as 0.25 and other minor adjustments have been made in
estimating the eoonomic costs shown in Table 1.
Rate of Loss of Production or Replacements Required
3.        If no works were undertaken to maintain and repair the exiating
sea walls, breaches would soon occur and, in a short time, sea water
would drastically reduce yields in all agricultural land below sea
level: in time, soil salinity would increase to the extent that cropping
was no longer possible. Simultaneously, land would be lost by erosion:
comparison of old British Admiralty charts show that the East Coast
Demerara coastline alone has been eroded at an average rate of 160 acres
per year since 1784., but this average masks a series of spectacular
losses.
4.        Even if very strenuous efforts were made to maintain existing
defenses, the ultimate result would be the same, since many stretches
of coast in the project area are protected only by earth embankments.
5.        Historical data gives no indication of how long production
could continue in the coastal plain under either circumstances. For



ANNEX 7
Page 2
purposes of evaluation, it has been assumed that production would come
to a standstill after one erosion cycle, i.e., after each stretch of
coast had been attacked and thz existing defenses therefore breached,
at least once. Figure A shois two empirical curves which have been
postulated to represent the :Losses with and without maintenance: the
probable course of events lies somewhere between the two curves and
approximates to a constant rate of loss, represented by a straight line.
A. RATE OF RETURN ON BASIS OF ANNUAL PRODUCTION
Agriculture
6.        Although it is certain that the agricultural production of the
project area wiMl increase during the next 30 years, individual increases
will be the benefits of individual projects and cannot be counted as
a benefit of the Sea Defense Program. For the purposes of evaluation,
therefore, it has been necessary to estimate only present production.
Reasonably reliable data are aveilable for the main crops of the area,
but it was necessary to make asslumptions for minor crops and livestock.
7.        The project area produces over 30 percent (by value) of the
national production of sugar. The mean 1296 price level, on all markets,
for Guyanese sugar was G$180 per ton fob Y but a price of G$168 per ton
fob (535 per ton for 960 sugar) has been used for bhepurposes of evalua-
tion because of uncertainties about the proportioning of future exports
between markets with differing pricing arrangements. Ecological conditions
favor the Guyanese sugar industry by permitting two harvests per year.
The industry has invested heavily in modernization of drainage and irriga-
tion systems and of factories. Transportation and bulk storage and loading
facilities are good. The future prospects for Guyanese sugar seem satis.-
factory.
8.        Rice accounts for 13 percent (by value) of the agricultural
production of the project area, although amounting to only seven percent
of the national production. Large increases in both yields and value are
to be expected fron on-gbing and propcsed programs. In 1966 Guyana
received G$270 per ton on the regotiated Caribbean market but only about
G$200 on the world market, wbi6h accounted for about 40 percent of exports.
A price of G$254 per ton has been assumed for purposes of evaluation.
9.        Details of the annual value of agricultural production of the
project area are given in para 6.07 of the report. If paid estate and
rice-farm labor are considered as a production cost, the annual value is
G$8.4 million, of which G$2.0 million may be ascribed to crop processing.
However, most of the paid labor is unskilled and seBaonally employed.
1/  Trade figures show that l966eprts conprised 129,000 tons to Britain
under the Negotiated Price Quota of the Commonwealth Sugar' Agreement
at G$228 per ton; 54j,000 tons to the United States at a quota price of
G$212 per tcx and 96,000 tons to Canada at G$102 per ton (i.e., free
market price plus Commonwealth preference).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
The opportunities for alternative employment are very limited. Unemploy-
ment in the project area is estimated at 20 percent and there is little
land of good agricultural potential left undeveloped in the project area.
A case could therefore be made for including the G$7.5 million earned by
paid labor as an economic benefit of the project and alternative evalua-
tions have been made in which labor is included as a cost or as a benefit.
Housing
10.       Sample surveys were carried out in three areas of the project
area to determine the rate of increase in numbers of houses since the
1960 Population Census and to obtain estimates of the current market
value of different types of housing. No difficulty was experienced in
applying this data to the whole project area: details of numbers and
values bave been given in para 6.09 of the report.
11.       No data was available on the level of rents in the project area.
The annual value of housing was therefore expressed as an imputed economic
rent, using a rate of return on the current market value. Based upon the
medium and long-term Government rates of 6.0 - 6.5 percent, and the private
mortgage rate of 7.0 percent, a conservative rate of return on capital of
seven percent per annum was used; however, evaluations were also made at
five and at ten percent per annum, the corresponding annual value of housing
being:
Return on                               Annual Value
Current Market Value                           of Housing
percent                                         onIfl3iF
5                                     12,525
7                                     17,535
10                                     25,050
Rates of Return to Economy
12.       Rates of return to the econoqy were calculated for the project
area and for its two main constituent districts (see Table 2). If labor
is considered as a cost, the rate of return to agriculture (including
crop processing) at the 'expected' rate of loss ranges from 7.2 in East
Coast Demerara to 13.9 in West Coaht, averaging 9.6 for the whole project
'area. If labor is considered as a benefit, the rate of return to agri-
culture alane is about doubled, i.e.,, 19.0 percent for the whole area.
13.       The rate of return is greatly increased if the annual value
of housing is included. At the 'expected' rate of loss, the rate of
return increases to 24.9 - 41.4 percent if labor is considered as a
benefit, depending on the social rate used.
14.       It will be seen from Table 2 that there were considerable
differences in the calculated returns for the two main sub-divisions
of the project area. Calculations were therefore made for the western



part of the West Coast District,  This subsidiary area, physically
separated from, but economically dependant upon, the rest of the
West Coast was chosen because it seemed to be the least developed part
of the project area. Nevertheless, the rate of return to agriculture
alone was similar to that of the other areas, although the return to
agriculture plus housing was lower.
15.       Table 2 clearly shows that the most important factor affecting
the rate of return is the assumptions that are made regarding the rate
of loss that would occur if the Plrogram were not carried out. Unfortuna-
tely, there is no evidence on this factor and the curves used are only
postulations.  However, it may be said with confidence that the rate
of return to the economy from agriculture alone will exceed nine percent
if sea water affects the whole area in thirty years. If the annual value
of housing is included, the return will probably exceed 24 percent.
16.       Further calculations were made to determine the influence on
the rate of return of varying the cost assumptions. The alternatives
used were:-
1. Actual project financial costs (ie., full cost of
labor ;Lncluded). This increases costs by about
12-5 percent.
2.  A reduction of 20 percent in costs
3. An increase of 20 Percent in costs.
The corresponding ;rates of retuni to the economy for the whole project
at the 'expected' rate of loss, are summarized below:   the pattern of
changes was similar for suib-divisions of the project area.
Costs               Agriculture          Agriculture Plus
(percent of eco-           OnLy               Housing (7 percent)
nomic cost)
_ncl. labor  Excl. labor   -Incl. labor  Excl.labor
80              23.7         12.3          55.3         39.9
100              19.0          9.6          41.5         31.9
112              17.0          8.3          36.1.        27.6
120              16.1          7.8          33.8         25,9
17.       If these figures are compared with those in Table a, it is
apparent that variations irL cost assumption's or inaccuracies in cost
estimates have much less influence on the rate of return to the economy
than the assumptions that are made regarding the rate of loss. If the
actual cost is 20 percent higher than estimated the rate of returns will
still be about 8 percent to agriculture alone) or about 26 percent to
agriculture plus hlousing even if all paid labor is included as a production
cost.



ANNEX 7
B. RATE OF RETURN ON BASIS OF REPLACEMENT COSTS
18.       An alternative approach to valuing the annual production of
the project area is to estimate the capital cost of replacing houses,
factories, crops, etc. elsewhere. Outside the coastal strip the land
is very infertile, but even assuming that the activities in the 10:,OOO
acres of the project area were replaced in, say, the Canje riveraia
area (an area proposed for future development and studied by UNDP Special
Fund project) the investment required to obtain the same production as
obtained currently in the project area would be prohibitive. This is
partly because land in tUe project area is more fertile than elsewhere.
It still produces fai'; yields of sugar cane without fertilizer after
more than 100 years of continual cropping. It is also because the
return on total capital invested is very low. The plantations were
constructed at first using slave labor and later using cheap indented
East Indian labor, and could not be replaced at so low a cost.
:L9.      The orders of magnitude involved are about G$225 million for
agricultural land including main drainae and irrigation and about
G$125 million for processing facilities excluding the cost of any roads
and other infrastructure. The capital value of housing has been esti-
mated at G$250 million, giving a total replacement cDst of about G$600
million excluding schools, roads, etc. Assuming the 'expected' rate of
damage without the project of one-thirtieth per year, the annual replace-
ment cost would be G$20.0 million. If the replacement cost is taken
directly as the annual benefit then the rate of return of the project
approaches infinity.
20.       It is also possible to consider the capital replacement cost
on an annual basis. It assumes that the Government decides to abandon the
project area and to remove the 115,OOO inhabitants elsewhere. The cost
of reconstruction of G$600 million would be raised by the investment
opportunities foregone by the taxed community. At rates of 7 and 10 per-
cent this is equivalent to a total project benefit of G$42.0 million and
G$60.0 million per year respectively. The annual benefits obtained and
rates of return of the project using this method are, as would be expected,
rather greater than those obtained by estimating the annual value of
production lost. The housing benefits are the same.
Alternative Projects
21.       Although there is a clear justification for building sea defenses
to protect the project area, it does not necessarily follow that the project
proposed is the best method available either in financial or economic terms.
Basically, there are two other possibilities of which the first would be to
postpone all major replacement works until there was damage. The second
would be to continue retreating slowly behind a series of low cost earth
embankmants, as was done in the project area until the beginning of the
present century.



22.       There would be a case for delaying the project if it would
not involve any large increases in costs, because the funds allocated
for sea defenses could be put into productive investment elsewhere
during the interval. There would also be a case if there was a possi-
bility that not all the structures included for construction in the
project would in fact have to be buiilt. Neither of these are situations
which are applicable to the project. On the contrary, construction is
likely to be less expensive if ccnmenced earlier. This can be seen
by considering the different lengths of sea defense in the project area
in turn.
23.       About 50 percent of the project expenditure is the replacement
of 8000 feet of earth embankment and 3250 feet of old concrete wall
between SD#22-23 in the East Demerara area. Construction is planned to
be coampleted in dry conditions before the full onset of the cyclical
erosion, which is at present reducing the width of foreshore by about
300 feet per year. If construction was delayed beyond about 1971-73,
it would have to be completed under tidal conditions at an estimated
30-40 percent increase in costs, accompanied by an increasing number
of breaches, first in the earth embankment and later in the wall also.
In the past few years, breaches have been successfully contained behind
temporary defenses and the major costs involved have been the costs of
repairing the breach. These include the costs of erecting coffer dams,
the cost of punping, and the cost of constructizg a new permanent sea
defense as well as the indirect damage done to mechanical equipment from
working in saline conditions, etc. Also, there is always the possibility
that temporary defenses would not be able to contain a breach, particularly
when as much as 8000 feet of earth embankment might collapse. In any
event the whole length of the defenses from SD#22-23 would have to be
replaced in time with structures of equivalent strength to those proposed
in the project.
2h.       The remaining construction included in the project is in areas
of local erosion. In East Demerara the earth embankents from SD#64-73
and a small length of old waLl SD#74-75 are likely to breach if not
repaired before 1972. (the length in between SD#73-74 is already under
construction as an emergency work). They would have 40o be replaced before
the next cyclical ~irosion attack expected in 1975-7e The sea defenses
included in tie project in West Demerara are at present all earth embankmnts.
Here same of the constrtction in the proposed phasing will in any case
have to be made under tid4l conditions and any further delays would increase
construction costs considerabLy. Quite apart from the extra costs of work-
ing under tidal conditions, there are significant economies of scale from
constructing as long a length of wall as possible at any one time. It
would be considerably more costly to return at a later date to a small
part of exieting old wall, in the middle of a longer part of earth embank-
ment than to construct the whole length a year or two earlier. Thus there
is no case for postponing the construction of any part of the project more
than is necessary, for the longer construction is delayed the greater will
be both the costs of construction and the greater the risks of a serious
breach.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
25.       Somewhat related to postponing the project is the possibility
of substituting capital for labor. There would be considerable economic
savings if some of the 20 percent unemployed could be used effectively.
However, the extra costs of providing adequate supervision for so large
an amount of construction outweigh any savings made by using less
mechanical equipment. Also the only proven structural design acceptable
requires a high proportion of imported materials, which further reduces
the possibility of capital-labor substitution.
26.       The second type of investment alternative would be a gradual
retreat behind earth embankments. In the long run it would mean completely
abandoning the project area, just as if there were no project. His-
torically it was the best solution so long as there was plenty of
foreshore to break the force of the waves. Earth embankments could be
cheaply constructed and replaced further inland when they collapsed.
Most of this area, which lies to the north of the railway was saline
and there was little agricultural production. This no doubt explains
partly why most of the housing has been built north of the railway.
27.       In general there are now no tidal flats remaining in front
of the present defenses in the project area. The retreat alternative
would entail moving the coastal defenses back as far as the railway
line in the early years of the project. The costs involved would mainly
be the annual value of housing north of the railway that would be lost.
The capital value is estimated at G$154.4 million and annual value of
G$7.7 million, G$10.8 million and G$15.4 million at interest rates of
5,7 and 10 percent respectively. However, the population living north
of the railway derive their income from the agricultural land south
of it. They would have to move their houses on to some of the agricul-
tural land south of the railway to remain close to their work. This
would involve a loss of about 10,500 acres with production valued at
G$2.0 million per year. The main road and all the infrastructure
would also have to be reconstructed south of the railway. After about
30 years, another decision would have to be made whether to retreat
again, or to abandon the land completely or to construct permanent sea
defenses. The alternative would preclude any long term development
of the project area and cannot be considered seriously.
August % 1968






ANNEX 7
Table 1
GUYANA
SE& DEFENSE PROJECT
Cost of Program and Subsequenu; Works
in Project Area
Year         Total      Total       Total
of          length   financial    economic
construction     in        cost        cost
miles     G$'O0O      G$'GOCC
East Coast Demerara
District                    1968         1.2       3,179      2,797
1969-71        4.0     1O,650       9,372
1972-75       4.1       4,474       3,937
1976-79       1.5        4,3h8      3,826
1980-83      [4.8      10,479       9,222
Total                            15.6 - i  33,130     29,154
West Coast Demerara           1968         0.3         285         251
District
(SD#l-90)                   1969-71        7.2       4,701      4,137
1972-75       4.3        6,430      5,658
Total                            11.8      1         lO,1[46
Project Area                 1968-83      27.4      44,546      39,200
Includes 3.7 miles of supplementary works which are double counted.
2/ Includes 1.2 miles of supplementary works which are double counted.
August 2, 1968



GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
Rates of Return of Project Under Different Assumptions
Agriculture only                            Agriculture Plus Residential
Annual residential value as percentage of capital value
Rate of                                    5%                   7%                   10%
Accmaulation  Including Excluding  Including  Excluding  Including  Kwcluding  Including  Excluding
of          Agri.     Agri.      Agri.      Agri.      Agri.      Agri.      Agri.      Agri.
Area                  Benefits      Labor     Labor      Labor      Labor      Labor      Labor      Labor      Labor
',Thole Project       High          49.8      19.2         -          -      > 100        100          -          -
Expected      19.0       9.6       34.5       24.9         41.5       31.9     53.8       41.4
Low           16.9       9.1         -          -          29.4       24.5       -          -
East Coast            High                                 -                      -          -
Demn-rara only        Expected      16A        7.2         _                     3.2                   =
Low             _         -          _          _           _          _
West Coast            High            -         -          -          -           -
Demerara only         Expected      26.9      13.9               -               64.7        -         °
LoW             -         -          _          _           -          _         _          _
West Coast
Demerara Subsidiary   High            -         _          _                      - _
Area mest of          Expected      19.7        -          -          -          28.5        --        -
Boerasine River       Low             -                                           - _  _
1/ See text and Figure A.
2/ Wages of unakilled paid labor included in net agricultural income as a benefit.
1/ Agricultural benefits excluding the value of all wages.
August 2, 1968



GUYANA- SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
a     ~~POSTULATED CURVES FOR RATE OF LOSS OF PRODUJCTIONl
'1              ~~~~~~100                                                 0
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8o8
7o                                   Constanratee oflooss
40                                                           I"
60                                         6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0
a)0
4-)
20 
C-)~ ~ ~ ~~Lwrt o os2
54                                              02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
0)                                                    -4-''H~~~~~Tar






64.0~-                     _  _  __  _  _  _  _
64 0 1    1     1    !    I          I    I1                                   1    1    1     ! I  I  I  I  I           I 
GUYANA: SEA             DEFENSE          PROJECT                                                                            62.5  CREST OF ROPOSED SEA WALLS
62.0 -                         TIDE CURVES
(ELEVATIONS ABOVE GEORGETOWN DATUM)
60.0                                                                                                                                     60.01
rCREST OF EXISTING SEA WALLS
58.0 -58.0
/     '~6.2' HIGHEST RECORDED TIDE
56.0 -
54.0 -
MEAN SPRING TIDE
52.0-
.,K.M      EAIILNEAP TIDE.~50                                                                              AVERAGE LEVEL OF LAND NEAR
500-50.0                                                                                                                                       GEORGE TOWN
48.0
46.0                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46.3  BASE OF TYPICAL WALL
MEAN SEA LEVEL           50.5
MEAN HIGH WATER SPRING TIDE 54.6
MEAN LOW WATER SPRING TIDE 46.2
44.0 -            tMEAN HIGH WATER NEAP TIDE  52.4
.           tit~~~EAN LOW WATER NEAP TIDE  48. 5
42.0      I    1    1     1    1    1     1    1    1    1 
0     1    2    3    4     5    6    7    8     9    10   1!   12   13   14    15   16   17   i8    19   20)   21   22   23    24   25
HOURS
tnouR6 ~ ~  ~          ~         ~
I ~~~  -                                                                                                        __________________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tS D-  St






GUYANA: SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HYDRAULICS
MINISTER OF WORKS AND HYDRAULICS
LPERMANENT SECRETARY         |-u.eSEA DEFENSE BOARD C
0'~~~~~~~~
PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY  PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY  PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY  O,  CHIEF WORKS AND
DEVELOPMENT                     FINANCE                       WORKS                     HYDRAULICS OFFICER           r
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PLANNING             SUPPLIES, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT  AP.DrINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
PURE WATER          BUILDINGS            ROhLS          :,;CHANIC4L AN'          CHIEF ENGINEER              DISTRICT
SUPPLY DIVISION        DIVISION          IVISIUI:       ELECTRIC.L SIVISIOI     HYDRAULICS DIVISION           ENGINEERS
HYDROMETEOROLOGY   WATER ADMINISTRATICrl                                                                            I
OFFICER
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/     I      ENGINEER     I    I     RESEARCH       !   |     ENGINEER       I1
/       |STRUCTURAL DESIGN |     I   AND SURVEYS     I    I   SEA DEFENSES    Ii
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION  SEA DEFENSE            COASTAL SURVEYS           MAJOR PROJECTS           MINOR PROJECTS
STRUCTURES           STRUCTURES
|MAINTENANCE |
NOTE:Officials responsible for sea defenses shown in boxes.
July 1968                                                                                                                     (R)IBRD-3978 4






GUYANA: SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
MONTHS 0               1 2            24             36              48             60
SEA DEFENSES
CHOICE OF CONSULTANTS
PREPARATION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS
PREQUALIFICATION OF TENDERERS-
BANK'S APPROVAL 
TENDERING-
AWARD AND BANK'S APPROVAL 
MOBILIZATION
CONSTRUCTION
DEMOBILIZATION
HYDROGRAPHIC STUDY EQUIPMENT
CHOICE OF SUPPLIER-
BANK'S APPROVAL
SUPPLY
LABORATORY TESTS FOR SEA WALLS
CHOICE OF LABORATORY
BANK'S APPROVAL-
LABORATORY
BREAKWATER DESIGN
PREPARATION-
BANK'S APPROVAL
STUDIES AND ENGINEERING
TENDERING
BREAKWATER CONSTRUCTION
APPRAISAL AND NEGOTIA TION-
TENDERING
BANK'S APPROVAL
CONSTRUCTION 
(R)IBRD-3986






M(A? I
GUYANA
ft~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~mp
,  4  ,4  >  Xs41  .   a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rpids or I
t                  / / >X _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A r   Roginoy
d:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mre X<igr r tW- 
K.-.            -.       F, ,   
Mkly v~~~~~~~~~
;-'''1~~~~~~'-0       '~l
JUNE 296b                                         [ORD 23iO7






GUYANA
ESSEQUIBO CORENTYNE COAST
SOILS, MINERALS AND POPULATION        MAP2
LE EL N LI
IlllillJ  Peat  and  silt  swamps
l  ~*  Riverain  soils
.~~~  \~~~~             11111>'~~~~Iill  sanJs
* *- 71 P | t~~~~~~~~~~~oas'tal  clavs
* Cold
* Bauxite
||   Stone quarries
(1000 Persons) Population
Distribution  1960
,,\  .i  1'/  )  5  (I  1')  20  31)  40  5s
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X 
*- ',t. ',,         .-_---. M-:ES
*::  *::.-- '9. -~In ---rb *-  op. 7   '--  -   -   ,
>\ \ * ~~~~~~~~~- -  ,ih- ;Wa 1 'var ni 
JUNE 1968                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2310
JUNE 1968~~~~~~~~~~~~~X






GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM               EAST DEMERARA           COAST                                       M4AP 3
A -                                                               T= L  A  N  T                        ' 0 C         , A      ;
/~~                                ~     ~~~ I G   S~ U                      N o E ET TEt    i | ,,         0'
/~~~ .J 1                    !   |i                                                                 s /   !   |   -
A~t                                                   S :1  Ri- 
D0         12
1 -           2   3    4   5
[' -, ~~~~~~I Residental areR High wat________level__ |   E R OSIGNAND BESATHES  ;        , c           KriLOMeTERndnS 
______________________________ILA   BONNE   INTENTION
-           ~~~~~~~ESTATES
SUGAR                          ENtIRE ESTATESNAN  STATE
SEA DEFENSES                                            jI          AN  RS
Ereidential area  -~'~N.-~  High  eater l1ve               EROSION AND BREACHES  4Dang          n
Sugar Factory                    Earth enig ekeret  EXISTING         pre--en  -ycD  erosion         eragaslan area >
t| Radio S eatise             T',VO  Sea nail                          prviu -DlCCTI    EtOtaohe
Road                          O     Drainage e.e.. e               T   Local erosion[(1968) 8
Pailway  _   IBRD p,,,,,t sea w  1  A,:.:reas  Daterhreact               c)
0   DeaitaSn puep              c     Other proeets Nra w all 1 96B-7 1 P ROGRAM f  Areas affeted Ay see water after Areach  eN
Earth -ebankmrnl                SD  Sea d efense  deanisd- rat-vesett on I t
1972-79 PROGRAM
-arth e-batk-ent
JUNE 19OA                                                                                                                                   IBNA  2309






GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM WEST COAST DEMERARA                                                                                   MP 4
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                                MILFS
~~~~RA9N                                                              IIILFS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01  2  3
s Q U B 0                                        ~~~~~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  1  I  2  3  4  5
5                 8 I r2                                                                                         KILOMETERS
~lS                                                                        I 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
V:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
PARIKA       VERGENOEGEN-BONASIKE// I ,e
<           ~~~~~Drainage and irritation A-e  _    )|                             i_<G
h  TME   UaT  6 U G T  *  T r  A TW
SEA DEFENSES
E:Ii;  Residential area                       ,HHighgh1t6 water level
Mruarfctrlea wall   EXISTINGI
Road                                0    Draiaaga anlee
0     [ INRII project sea wall
R    Other prajejts sea wall  1968-71 PROGRAM
. . .. . Earth enbank-ent                        SD  In defan-e wdisatat,vrsrcticne  /
Sea wal     i1                                                               / 
Earth  .b..k ... t  f1972-79 PROGRAM        I
JUNE 1968
IlRll 2308



