~~14T ~~RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No. P-635
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
GUYANA
FOR THE
SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
September 11, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOD'ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRhCTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO GUYANA
FOR THE SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.o million to
Guyana, to cover the foreign exchange cost of a sea defense project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In late 1966 the Bank reviewed Guyana's 1966-1972 Development
Program, recommending that sea defense wcrks should be undertaken on a
priority basis and suggesting a substantial increase in expenditure on such
works. In late 1967 the Government of Guyana outlined a preliminary program
of sea defense works. This program was discussed at the Aid Co-ordination
Meeting in Georgetown in November 1967, when both the United Kingdom and the
Bank expressed an interest in financing sea defense works. Following further
discussions with the U.K. and the Bank, the Government prepared a Twelve-Year
Sea Defense Program in February 1968, which included concrete proposals for
works to be implemented in Phase I (1968 to 1971) and outlined works that
should be undertaken thereafter, based on further technical and economic
studies. In March 1968 the Government requested a Bank loan to help finance
certain selected works included in Phase I and indicated that it intended
approaching the U.K. for the remaining Phase I works. The proposal was
appraised by a Bank mission in April-May 1968.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan were held from August 26 to 30,
1968. The Government of Guyana representatives at these negotiations were
headed by Mr. George Williams, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of TWTorks and
Hydraulics.
h.        The proposed loan would be the Bankt s first lending operation to
the newly-independent sovereign state of Guyana. The Bank had made a loan
in 1961 to the former colony of British Guiana, with the guarantee of the
U.K. The following is a summary statement of the Bank loan as of July 31,
1968:



-2-
Loan    Year  Borrower                     Purpose        Amount   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
285-BG  1961  British Guiana               Agricultural
Credit         1.2
Total (less cancellations)                   0.9
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and Others                          0.7
Total now outstanding                        0.2
Amount sold                      0.7
Of which has been repaid       o.6          0.1
Total now held by Bank                       0.1
Total undisbursed
5.        Guyana has also requested IDA assistance to help finance an education
project.  The field appraisal of the project has been completed and the appraisal
report is under preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                  Guyana
Amount:                    The equivalent in various currencies of
us$5.0 million.
Purpose:                   To finance the estimated foreign exchange
component of civil works comprising about
26,230 feet of concrete/masonry sea walls,
and the foreign exchange cost of hydro-
graphic equipment and relevant feasibility
studies.
Amortization:              In twenty-five years, including a five-year
period of grace, through semi-annual in-
stallments beginning November 15, 1973 and
ending November 15, 1993.
Interest Rate:            6-1/2% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of l/o per annum.



- 3 -
PART III - TIlE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal Report, Sea Defense
Project - Guyana" (TO-678a) on the proposed project is attached.
8.        The proposed project is part of Phase I of a Twelve-Year Sea
Defense Program, to provide protection against cyclical and local erosion
and flooding by the sea of the fertile coastal plains, which lie below sea
level. The coastal plains of Guyana, although less than 3 percent of the
area of the country, are the home of nearly 95 percent of the country's
population and produce almost 80 percent of its GDP. Nearly 70 percent of
the population is engaged in agriculture, which contributes about 20 percent
of the GDP. The project area, which covers the highly developed East and
IJest Demerara Coasts, accounts for nearly 20 percent of Guyana's agricultural
production.
9.        The project consists of:
(a) construction of about 26,230 feet of sea walls, including
21,230 feet in the East Demerara Coast and 5,000 feet in
the West Demerara Coast;
(b) purchase of hydrographic equipment, including one survey
launch, to extend the scope of coastal erosion research
and hydrographic studies;
(c) preparation,by end of 1969, of an engineering and economic
feasibility study of works needed to protect the Georgetown
Esplanade; and
(d) preparation,by 1971, of a study of improved sea wall designs
including necessary hydraulic model tests and possible
construction methods, and of an economic/technical study
for selecting priority areas to be protected by sea defense
works from 1972.
10.       Although the statutory responsibility for sea defense works rests
with the Sea Defense Board, the actual work of planning, constructing and
subsequently maintaining them is done by the Ministry of Works and Hydraulics.
However, sea defense construction work has so far not been executed on an
extensive scale and has been done mainly through force account. The
Ministry's staff, although competent, lack the practical experience of
preparing tender documents for large contracts to be let on an international
competitive basis and of supervising extensive construction work. Con-
sultants, acceptable to the Bank, who would review drawings, prepare tender
documents and supervise construction, would therefore be appointed.
11.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies and interest
and other charges during construction, is estimated at the equivalent of
about US$7.5 million, of which the proposed Bank loan of US$5.0 million
represents the estimated foreign exchange component, on the assumption that



- 4 -
all of the stone used in the construction would be procured locally. The
balance would be provided by the Government through budgetary allocations.
The proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis of a percentage of the
cost of the civil works contracts and the full foreign exchange costs of
the hydrographic equipment and various feasibility studies.
12.       Contracts for civil works, and orders for hydrographic equipment
of a composite value of not less than US$20,000, would be let on the basis
of international competitive bidding. Boulder stones and aggregates, whose
import is currently not allowed, account for nearly one-third of the project's
construction cost. While adequate stone reserves are available in Guyana,
local quarrying capacity would need to be nearly doubled if the stone require-
ments of Phase I and the concurrent needs of other public and private works
are to be met from local sources. The project under consideration is only a
first step in a much larger future program of rehabilitation and construction
of sea defenses. The Government is therefore anxious to encourage the local
quarrying industry, one of the very few industries in Guyana, to increase its
production on an economically viable basis. Because a shortage in local
supply of stone could, with continued import prohibition, lead to delays and
much higher prices of local stone and consequently to much higher project
costs, it has been agreed that the civil works contractors would be required
to submit alternative bids based on the use of local stone and imported stone.
The Bank would reserve the right not to approve civil works contracts to be
financed from the loan if, by reason of the employment of local stone, such
contracts would impose an excessive burden on the cost of the project or unduly
delay its completion. It has been agreed during negotiations that the Bank
would allow a "weighting" of about 25 percent in favor of local stone, i.e.,
that in making comparisons among bids received from contractors, 25 percent
would be deducted from the cost of any local stone included in a contractor's
bid. The Government undertakes to promptly issue an import license, in the
event a contract is awarded to a bid based on imported stone.
13.       The proposed project wDuld have as its principal direct benefit
protection against loss of agricultural production and housing in the highly
developed project area. If sea defenses are not built, not only would there
be a gradual loss of land by erosion, but housing would be made untenable by
widespread intrusion of sea water and agricultural and related production
would also be drastically reduced. Such a reduction would in turn involve a
significant decline in the production of factories and mills processing sugar-
cane and rice, and a consequent loss of employment. Under the most probable
conditions, the rate of return (excluding wages paid to agricultural labor)
would be over 30 percent. As Guyana has a high incidence of unemployment and
there is virtually no alternate employment opportunity for agricultural labor,
the opportunity cost of such labor is very low. If all or part of wages paid
to the agricultural labor in the project area were regarded as a benefit to
the economy, the rate of return under the same probable conditions, would
increase to over 40 percent.
14.       The calculation of the rate of return is for the Twelve-Year Sea
Defense Program, since this program would be ultimately needed for the pro-
tection of the project area. Ideally, therefore, financing for the whole
Program should be assured in advance, but this is not practicable. However,



it is necessary that financing be assured for all works in Phase I. The
Government of uuyana had therefore applied to the United Kingdom for assistance
in financing the cost of Phase I works, other than those to be financed by the
Bank. The United Kingdom Government has given a satisfactory assurance to the
Bank and to the Government of Guyana of its intention to provide financing for
its portion of Phase I works.
PART IV - LBGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank, Supplementary
Letter No. 1 relating to procurement and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
16.       Although this is the first project of its kind to be financed by
either the Bank or IDA, it includes no special features other than Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement, which provides that the Bank would withhold
approval to a civil works contract and disallow its financing from the pro-
ceeds of the loan, if such contract would impose an excessive burden on the
overall project costs, or unduly delay its implementation. Paragraph 2B(a)
and (b) of Supplementary Letter No. 1 stipulates that bidders will be re-
quired to submit alternative bids based on local and imported stone (or a
combination thereof), lays down the criteria for evaluating such bids for
purposes of Bank approval and records the Government's agreement to issue
import licenses for stone, if contracts are awarded on that basis.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A report entitled "An Appraisal of the Development Program of
Guyana" (in five volumes), VH-169b, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3,1967 (R-67-56). With the return of political stability following the
election of the present coalition Government in 1964, the process of economic
recovery has continued during the past two years. Economic growth has aver-
aged some 3 percent a year in real terms; overall price increases have been
contained at about 3 percent a year. Taking into account a 3 percent annual
rate of population growth, real per capita income has remained constant at an
estimated level of roughly US$230.   thile consumption was restrained by newly-
imposed tax increases, gross investment rose substantially, reaching 25
percent of GDP last year, with public investments accounting for more than
one-third of the total.
18.       These internal developments have been accompanied by a marked im-
provement in the balance of payments. Following a period of continued
deficits, a sizeable surplus was achieved in 1967 when gross foreign exchange
holdings of the Government and the banking system combined increased from
G$80 million to G$92 million (which in terms of United States dollars, however,
represents practically no improvement due to devaluation). As a consequence,
Guyana did not need to draw under the 1967 stand-by arrangement with the
International Monetary Fund.  The turn-around in the balance of payments was



- 6-
based on the continued growth in exports (with sugar, rice, bauxite and
alumina representing about four-fifths of the total), the containment of
consumption goods imports and a substantial increase in capital inflows in
the form of both direct foreign investments in the private sector and official
long-term loans and grants to finance public investments. The new invest-
ments, notably in the bauxite mining sector, hold out promise of strengthening
exports further, Guyana's competitive position having been improved by the
devaluation of the currency in line with sterling in November 1967. Guyana's
membership in the recently established Caribbean Free Trade Association
(CARIFTA) should furtlher enhance her export possibilities. IWlith gross capital
inflow expected to continue at a high level (around 12 percent of GDP includin{
grants) the overall outlook for the balance of payments is favorable.
19.       Following a rather unsatisfactory performance up to 1966, the fiscal
situation improved markedly last year due to decided government efforts to
strengthen the overall budgetary position and restore public savings. As a
result of new tax measures and improvements in tax administration, revenues
rose by 8 percent, as against an increase of about 3 percent in current ex-
penditures. The resulting public savings amounted to about 17 percent of
public sector investments in 1967, whereas in the previous yea; public savings
were negligible. While further efforts (especially in reducing the heavy
subsidies to state enterprises) are still called for in order to increase the
proportion of the public development program financed from domestic sources,
recent progress in this direction has been encouraging. The 1969 budget is
being prepared against the background of general elections which are due to
be held late this year or in early 1969, and the Government has not yet
decided on its program for the post-election period.
20.       Public sector investments have increased substantially since the
initiation of the current development program in 1966 with main emphasis on
transport and public works, agriculture and sea wall defenses. By the end of
1963 some 30 percent of the entire seven-year program of G$300 million is
expected to have been spent. Roughly 70 percent of expenditures to date have
been financed externally through grants and long-term loans carrying low rates
of interest. Because of the very favorable terms of aid, the debt service
ratio for external public debt has been kept down to about 4 percent and is
not expected to exceed this level during the next few years. There is, there-
fore, some room for additional external borrowing on conventional terms.
External public debt service payments nevertheless absorb some 12 percent of
the Central Government's current revenues, and with its low per capita income
and limited resource endowment, Guyana should continue to receive most of its
external assistance on a concessional basis.
21.       To help in making the most effective use of the aid extended by
different foreign donors a first Aid Co-ordination Meeting was held in Guyana
in November last year at the initiative of the Guyanese Government and under
the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Guyana. Represented were the
Governments of Canada, the U.K., the U.S. and Germany, the UNDP, IBRD/IDA
and the fiF (as an observer). A second such meeting is being held, also in
Guyana, in mid-September of this year.



- 7 -
PART VI - COHPL,IANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGRE4IET
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOME4DATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Guyana in an amount equivalent
to US$5,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Guyana in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million United States dollars (U.S.$5,OOO,000),
to mature on and prior to November 15, 1993, to bear interest at the rate of
six and one-half per cent (6_1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Sea Defense Project)
between Guyana and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
Attachments                               Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September 11, 1968



