.
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AA/ 3 q _e   T
Report No. 8235-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
P.UMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
APRIL 25, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



b 
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Offical Exchange Rate US$1.00 - 2.60 Egyptian Pounds (L.E.)
L.E.1.00   US$0.385  (October 31, 1989)
WEIGHTS AND MV&SURES
Egyitian and/or Metric Unit                English/US Unit
1 milimeter (mm)                            0.039  inches
1 centimeter (cm)             -             0.394  inches
1 meter (m)                    -           39.370  inches
1 kilometer (km)               -            0.620  miles
1 feddan (fd)                 -             0.420  hectares, 1.037 acres
1 square kilometer (sq. km)   -             0.386  square miles
1 hectare (ha)                =             2.470  acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                         35.310  cubic feet
1 cubic meter
per second(m3es)                          35.310  cubic feet per second
1 liter (1)                                 1.057  quarts
1 liter per second (lls)       -            0.035  cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =            2.200  pounds
1 metric ton (t)              =             2,205  pounds
1 kilowatt (k#)                =            1.360  horse power
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOD                     Biological Oxygen Demand
CAO                     Central Audit Organization                                       E
COD                     Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPADP                   Egyptian Public Authority fcr Drainage Projects
FAO/CP                  Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GOE                     Government of Arab Republic of Egypt
IBRD                    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
IDA                     Interr.ational Development Association
IFAD                    International Fund for Agricultural Development
KV                      Kilo-vclts
KW                      Kilowatts
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB                     Limited International Bidding
MALR                    Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MED                     Mechanical and Electrical Department of MPW
MIS                     Management Information System
MOIC                    Ministry of International Cooperation
MPW                     Ministry of Public -irks and Water Resources
O&M                     Operation and Maintenance
PBDAC                   Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
SOE                     S':atement of Expenditure
USAID                   United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REH-ABILITATION PROJECl II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                        Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ---------------------------------------------- i-iii
I. BACKGROUND
A.  The Economy -----------------------------------------------------  1
B.  The Agriculture Sector ----------------------------------            ----  2
C.  Sectoral Constraints --------------------------------------------  3
D.  Recent Reforms and Their Impact ---------------------------------  3
E.  Project Origin -----------------------------------------------              5
F.  IDA/Bank Lending ------------------------------------------------  5
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Climate and Soils -------------------------------------  6
B.  Land Tenure and Cropping Pattern --------------------------------  7
C.  Irrigation and Drainage Pumping Stations ------------------------  8
D.  Institutions ---------------------------------------------------- 11
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description ---------------------------------------------- 13
B. Detailed Features ------------------------------------------------ 15
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan --------------------------------- 20
D. Procurement------------------------------------------------------- 22
E. Disbursements ---------------------------------------------------- 25
F. Accounts and Audits  --------------------------------------------- 26
G. Environmental Impact --------------------------------------------- 27
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Coordination and Management -------------------------------------- 29
B. Supervision Plan ------------------------------------------------- 32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt in
October 1989, comprising Messrs. Aizad N. Khan, Irrigation Engineer, Albert J.
Nyberg, Economist, Jamal Fuad, Agriculturist, Rohan Wijeratne, Information
Systems Specialist, Thumpasery George, Financial Analyst, (Bank); James
Gallup, Environmental Specialist, and David Field, Electro-mechanical
Engineer, (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by iecipients only in the performance



Page No.
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. COST RECOVERY AND RISKS
A. Economic Analysis ------------------------------------------------ 33
B. Cost Recovery ---------------------------------------------------- 36
C. Project Risks ---------------------------------------------------  37
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ---------------------------- 38
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1   Pumping Stations Distribution ----------------------------------  8
3.1   Project Cost Summary ------------------------------------------- 21
3.2   Financing Plan ------------------------------------------------- 22
3.3   Procurement Arrangements --------------------------------------- 24
3.4   Disbursement -------------------------------------------------- 25
3.5   Disbursement Schedule -----------------------------------------  26
ANNEXES
ANNEX I -           COST ESTIMATES. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Table 1          Cost Summary - Summary Accounts
Table 2          Project Components Yearly Base Cost
Table 3          Summary Account Yearly Base Cost
Table 4          Summary Account Yearly Cost, Including Contingencies
Table 5          Breakdown of Summary Accounts in U.S. Dollars
Table 6          Breakdown of Summary Accounts in Egyptian Pounds
Table 7(a)       Summary Account by Project Component-Rehab of Pumping
Stations
Table 7(b)       Summary Account by Project Component - Technical Assistance
& Training
Table 8          Proposed Tender Processing Schedule for Various Equipment
and Civil Works
Table 9          Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 10         Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan



ANNEX II          LIST OF STATIONS AND VARIOUS REQUIREMENTS
Table 1         List of New Stations and Stations Proposed for
Extension, and Replacing Floating with
Land-Based Stations
Table 2         List of Stations with Complete or
Partial Replacement of Equipment
Table 3         List of Workshops, Electrical
Laboratories and Miscellaneous Equipment
Table 4         Lisr of Vehicles Requirement
Table 5         Proposed List of New Facilities
Table 6         Summary of Technical Assistance and Training Input
Table 7         Supervision Pla.a
ANNEX III         ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table 1         Area, Production and Revenue in Project Area
Table 2         Gross and Net Economic Value of Production
Table 3         Effi.  ncy Power Consumption and Savings
Table 4         Savings in Maintenance Costs
Table 5         Farmgate Prices
Table 6         Net Income Per Feddan
Table 7         Economic Analysis
Annex IV          SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
ANNEX V           SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
CHARTS            1.    Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
Organization
2.    Mechanical and Electrical Department Organization
IBRD No. 22037



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT Is
Loan and Proiect Summar 
Borrower:      Government of the Arab Republic o' F.gypt
Beneficiaries: Smallholder farmers and the Mechanical and Electrical
Department (MED) of the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources.
Amount:        US$ 31.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Standard variable interest rate for a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace.
Project Objectives and
Descripeion:
The main objectives of the project are to avoid future declines in yields
and agricultural production, which would occur if the proposed
rehabilitation were not carried out. Other objectives are to reduce the
operation and maintenance cost of the pumping stations, with related
beneficial effects on the Government's recurrent budget, and to strengthen
the institutional capability of MED. Agriculture production would be
maintained by about 560,000 smallholders throughout Egypt through the
rehabilitation of about 50 pumping stations. Special emphasis would be
given to strengthening the MED through the provision of additional
workshops, electrical laboratories equipment, vehicles, computers and
telecommunication equipment for the Management Information System and
through the training of MED staff. To ensure proper maintenance of
rehabilitated facilities, two new Central Directorates would be created,
one for technical inspection and the other for civil works. In order to
reduce fiscal constraints, an improved system of cost recovery, covering
the O&M expenditures, would be worked out and gradually implemented. As
part of reducing NED's budgetary requirement, MED would transfer small
booster pumps, wells and some of the smaller pump stations to farmers
and/or farmer groups.
Benefits:      The total area benefitting from the project is estimated to
be about 0.85 million feddan (fd). The number of families
expected to benefit would be about 560,000.
Risks:         The major risks are: (i) the likely deterioration of the
pumping stations if O&M are not closely monitored after
rehabilitation; (ii) a possible shortage of counterpart
funds; and (iii) delays in project implementation.



- ii -
These risks would be reduced/eliminated by: (i) the creation
of two Central Directorates for inspection and civil works
and strengthening of the Management Information System for
the project facilities; (ii) the annual Bank review before
final government approval of the budget; (iii) the lessening
of fiscal constraints through implementation of a plan of
action for cost recovery and gradual handover of booster
stations, wells and small stations to farmers and farmer
groups; (iv) the experience gained by MED in procurement
through the ongoing project; (v) strengthening the General
Directorate of Studies and Specifications; and (vi)
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee.



-~ il. 
Pro ect Conmonents and Estimated Costs
LE Nltlio                    USS Million
Locat   Forefn   Talg        loadl        EgEJ      Total
RehabilitJtion of Pu.uuiina Stations
Firm Program                       17.54    35.92     53.46       6.75       13.81     20.56
indicative Program                  Li. 61            21.44      _2.t6        6.09     8.25
Subtotal                           23.15    51.75     74.90       8.91       19.90    28.81
Workshoos. Labortorfes & Misc.    g
Workshops & Electrical Labs.        1.39     3.62      5.00       0.54        1.39      1.93
Vehicles and Heavy Equipment        1.56     3.66      5.22       0.6C        1.41     2.01
Capputers awd Telecomm.             0.4r.    1.60      2.00       0.15        0.62      0.77
Misc. Equipment                     0 3      1.62      2.35                   0.2 0,62  0.90
Subtotal                          4.07    10.50     t .57        1.57       4.04      5.61
Buildina Facilities                  4.26     1.07      5.33       1.64        0.41     2.05
Teihnical Assistance and Traiina
Management Information System       0.58    0.92       1.50       0.22        0.35      0.57
OSM Requirement and Other Studies    J.34    0.51      0.85       0.13        0.20      0.33
Environwental Monitoring and Studies 0.17    0.22      0.39       0.07        0.08     0.15
Training                            0.36     1.291. 1.65          014         0.50      .4
Subtotal                          1.45     2.94      4.39       0.56        1.13      1.69
Total Basetine Costs                32.93    66.26     99.19      i2.67       25.48    38.15
Physical Contingencies               3.11     3.95      7.06       1.20        1.52     2.72
Price Contingencies                 21.74    41.18     62.92       2.84        5.37     8.21
Total Project Cost                  57.78   111.39    169.17      16.7t       32.37    49.08
YSt million (Eauivalent)
Financina Plan                              Locat    forefgn      Totat   X of Total
GOE /                                       16.7       -         16.7        34.01
ID                                                    31.0       31.0       63.14
Various Bilateral Sources V/                           1.4        1.4         2.85
Total                                     16.7      32.4       49.1       100.0
CsM       cc2
Estimated C=t9_etion Date: June 30. 1997
Estimated Annual Disbursements
--------------------------Bank Fiscal Year---------------------
FY91            FY93    U       FZ2     ft    fY97  FY98
---------- - -------  --.. .  -tUS$ millIon) --------------------
Bank            0.1     1.0      3.5     5.5     7.5     8.0    4.0       1.4
X of Total      0.3     3.2     11.3    17.8   24.2   25.8   12.9         4.5
X of Cuwlative 0.3      3.5     14.8   32.6   56.8   82.6   95.5         100.0
Economic Rate of Return:  24X
I/ Of which US$6.0 million will be taxes and duties.
It Under ongoing project financed by USAIO (US1.1 mitlion) and other bilaterat sources (US$0.3 million).



m
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
I. BACXGROUND
A. The Rc9nogW
1.01     Egypt has the fo'irth largest economy (behind Saudi Arabia, Algeria
and Turkey) within the Middle East-North Africa region . Egypt has a high
population growth rate of 2,8% per annum. The current per capita GDP is
estimated to be about US$680 (in 1988). Egypt has a land area of about one
million square kilometers (km') but less than 30,000 kn' (3 million
bectares) are cultivated. The popvlation of 53 million (mid-1988 estimate)
is concentrated in the arable strip of land in the Nile Valley and in the
delta, resulting in a very high population density in these areas.
1.02    Egypt's economy expanded rapidly through the 1970s in response to
the substantial increases in petroleum prices and export value and, to a
lesser extent, to the open door policy initiated in 1973. GDP grew at an
annual rate of about 9% between 1974 and 1981. In addition to the increase
in foreign exchange earnings from petroleum exports, other major sources of
growth included remittances from Egyptian workers employed in other
petroleum-exporting countries and Suez Canal transit fees; increases in
tourism receipts also contributed to rapid economic growth. In contrast,
the agricultural sector grew by 3% annually during this period, only
slightly higher than the population growth rate.
1.03    In the 1980s, foreign exchange earnings from petroleum exports and
workers' remittances stagnated and then declined; Suez Canal receipts
stagnated during most of the period, while tourism earnings declined
sharply in the early 1980s and are still below the levels of the late 1970s
in real terms. Consequently, the economic growth rate declined to about 5%
and 3%, respectively, in the mid- and late-1980s. Agriculture continued to
grow at about 3% annually until FY85, but has since declined to slightly
over 2% since 1986. The disparate growth of the agricultural sector and
the economy at large transformed Egypt from a net exporter to a net
importer of agricultural commodities.
1.04    The decline in foreign exchange earnings resulted in an increasing
and unsustainable external payment deficit. The factors that caused the
worsening balance of payments performance affected the public finance
situation as well, resulting in an unsustainable budget deficit. In 1986,
the Government initiated a number of adjustments to deal with these
BPPWTApU t1, 11ow



-2-
disequilibria. These adjustments pointed in the right direction; however,
except in the agriculture sector, they were not implemer.ted rapidly enough
to bring the economy back on a balanced growth path. During 1989, the
Government renewed its efforts to develop a strengthened reform program
which would reduce the budget deficit, reform the public enterprise system,
liberalize prices and foreign trade, decontrol and thereby stimulate
private economic activities, and streamline public investments. The
details of this program are in the process of being worked ollt.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05    Although the agricultural sector has declined in relative
importance over the past two decades, it remains the single most important
sector, providing about 20% of GDP, employing 35% of the civilian labor
force and contributing about 25% of the value of merchandise exports.
Also, agriculture supplies inputs to much of Egypt's manufacturing; 50X of
the manufacturing labor force is employed in manufactures using
agricultural raw material, and 25% of the merchandise exports are of
agriLultural origin.
1.06    The agricultural land base consists of about 6.6 million feddan
(fd). About 80% of this land consists of the alluvial soils of the Nile
Valley and delta. The balance is comprised of lands reclaimed since 1952,
most of which are calcareous and sandy soils, although a modest amount of
deltaic so'is are also included. Over 1.6 million fd have been reclaimed
since 1952, but the net addition to the cultivated area has been only
600,000 fd as about 30,000 fd of agricultural lands are lost annually
through urban encroachment.
1.07    Egyptian agricultutre depends almost exclusively on the Nile system
for irrigation water supplies. The construction of the High Aswan Dam
(HAD), with a live storage of 130 Bi3 of water, has provided reliable year-
round irrigation and facilitated the 200% cropping intensity currently
enjoyed. The Nile system has sufficient water to meet current water
requirements. However, any further expansion in the land base and/or
increase in cropping intensity will require improved water management and
conservation. Rainfed agriculture is limited to a very small belt of
rangeland along the Mediterranean coast.
1.08    Since 1952, public investment in agriculture has been concentrated
on land reclamation and irrigation/drainxage infrastructure in order to
expand the land and water resource base. Investments in other
infrastructure/institutions to increase productivity have been considerably
less. This may be due to the relatively high yields Egypt currently
enjoys. However, yields are below thei- potential given the conducive
physical environment of adequate water ,upplies and high solar radiation.
Interventionist policies have contributed to reduced sectoral efficiency.
Although recent reforms are helping to redress this issue, much still
remains to be done.
SAPP.RP4A 20, 1S90



-3-
C. Sectoral Constraints
1.09    A number of constraining factors have contributed to the declining
role the agricultural sector now plays in the economy. These include: (i)
inadequate investment in productive infrastructure -- research, extension,
marketing, irrigation/drainage, etc.; (ii) technical constraints which have
led to stagnant or declining yields, the limited application of new
technologies, inefficient water management, the salinization of soils, and
minimal increases in the cultivable land; and (iii) the pervasive policy
and institutional intervention in agricultural production and marketing
which have diminished incentives and lowered sectoral efficiency.
D. Recent Reforms and Their Impact
1.10    To reduce sectoral distortions and improve incentives and
sfficiency, the Government initiated a comprehensive policy reform program
in late 1986: This program introduced reform measures which were designed
to:
(i)   eliminate crop area allotments, delivery quotas, and
controlled prices immediately for all crops, except rice,
cotton and sugarcane;
(ii)  reduce and then phase out rice marketing controls;
(iii) eliminate the public sector monopoly in citrus export
marketing;
(iv)  eliminate private sector constraints in importing/marketing
red meat;
(v)   eliminate livestock feed subsidies by increasing the prices
of components - maize, wheat bran, molasses, cottonseed
cake, etc.;
(vi)  eliminate restrictions on the import, processing and
marketing of maize;
(vii) reduce farm input subsidies; and
(viii)limit public sector ownership of agricultural land to no
more than 4% (i.e., the amount needed for agricultural
research and other infrastructure support uses).
1.11    Prior to decontrol (e.g., through 1985/86), wheat was subject to
area controls; also, wheat, broad beans, lentils, sesame, groundnuts and
onions were subject to procurement quotas at fixed procurement prices.
However, the Government sti.l maintains a procurement price to suppcrt
major commodities if market prices decline below this support level. In
pA.RPrTApd a20 lOw



-4-
response to this new freedom, farmers increased plantings of all major
decontrolled crops, at the expense of controlled crops, between 1986 and
1988. In general, a two-year period is too brcief a time to measure
productivity changes as yields may be affected by several exogenous
factors. However, yields for many of the decontrolled crops did increase,
particularly for wheat, which experienced a 25% yield increase.
1.12    There has been some liberalization of the crops which remain
controlled. The rice procurement quota has been reduced to about 50X of
production, and the private sector is permitted more freedom in milling and
marketing. Farmgate cotton prices more than doubled between 1986 and 1989.
This represents a large price increase in nominal terms, but the net zeturn
from cotton production remains below alternative crop production.
1.13    The decontrol of citrus marketing/exporting has resulted in the
private sector gaining an increasing share of orange exports. Also, the
private sector was able to control quality as indicated by the higher unit
value of their exports. Red meat import/marketing constraints were
eliminated in 1986/87; consequently, most imports are now undertaken by the
private sector. In 1988, the private sector imported 82% of the frozen
meat and 89% of live animals; in 1985, private sector imports were only 56%
for frozen meat and zero for live arimals.
1.14    There are two basic feeds, one for poultry and one for livestock
(dairy, beef and veal production), which have traditionally been subsidized
by the Government. Between 1986/87 and 1988/89, the poultry feed subsidy
was reduced from LE 100 million to LE 13 million, thus poultry producers
incurred a similar cost of production increase. This increa3e caused a
precipitous decline (50%) in supply between 1986 and 1988 as an estimated
15,000 uneconomic poultry farms, representing 50% of the nation's
productive capacity, went out of business. Traditional livestock feed is
manufactured solely by the public sector and is sold at the subsidized
price of LE 200/ton. However, price increases have reduced the aggregate
subsidy bill from LE 290 million to LE 222 million on annual sales of about
1.9 million tons.
1.15    Elimination of Livestock Feed Subsidy. The  Government is
committed to eliminating livestock feed subsidies during 1990. Subsidies
on maize, the largest component of manufactured feeds, have been removed,
and maize is now freely imported by the private sector. Other subsidized
ingredients include cottonseed cake, wheat bran, rice bran and molasses.
ThA transfer price of cottonseed cake was increased from LE 41/ton to LE
125/ton between 1986 and 1988. The impact of this increase was to reduce
the Government's subsidy burden by LE 37.4 million.
1.16    Reduction of Farm Input Subsidies, Explict subsidies apply to
many agricultural inputs, including fertilizers, pesticides, credit,
livestock/poultry feed ingredients, and water. Tthese subsidies increased
sharply during the early 1980s and peaked at LE 481 million in 1985. In
1986, the Government stipulated that these subsidies would not increase in
nominal terms. As noted above, the subsidy on imported maize has virtually
8;PWrAPi 20 1 0l



been eliminated; however, other major input subsidies have increased. The
net result is that the nominal input subsidy bill remained virtually static
between 1986 and 1988. The nominal subsidy for 1989 should show a marked
reduction as all maize subsidies have now been eliminated, and fertilizer
prices have increased sharply.
1.17    Monitoring of State Ownership of Land.  Prior to the 1980s, a
major share of reclaimed land was placed ur4er cultivation by state
production companies. In the early 1980s, land divestiture became the norm
as the private sector had by this time demonstrated superior productivity.
Virtually all of the reclaimed land has now been allocated to the private
sector. Only 3,000 fd have been retained for sttte agricultural research
stations.
E. Project Origin
1.18    The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt (GOE) has requested
assistance from the World Bank to finance the rehabilitation of about 50
irrigation and drainage pumping stations in both upper Egypt and lower
Egypt (delta area). Based on the overall pattern of land holdings in the
country, about 560,000 farm families would benefit from an increase in the
reliability of the water supply and a lowering of the water table -- both
improvements associated with the proposed rehabilitation of the pumping
stations.
1.19    The Government has undertaken a systematic program to rehabilitate
the aging pumping stations and upgrade its workshop facilities. This
program has been supported by the ongoing Irrigation Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2270-EGT) launched in 1983. About 70 pumping
stations would be rehabilitated by the end of 1990. The proposed project is
a continuation of these efforts.
F. IDA/Bank Lending
1.20    IDA/Bank commitments to Egypt to date total about US$3.4 billion
(net of cancellations) and consist of 29 IDA credits and 53 Bank loans.
Twenty-four projects are under implementation. Approximately 22% of
IDA/Bank lending has been for agriculture. The eight projects in the
agriculture sector under implementation include three irrigation and
drainage projects and one each for agro-industry, settlements/new land
development, agriculture development, agriculture storage and technical
assistance. The Bank also serves as the executing agency for three IFAD-
financed projects: the Minya and Fayoum Agricultural Development Projects,
and the West Beheira Settlement Project.
1.21    Of the completed projects, Project Performance Audit Reports have
been issued for the first four drainage projects (Cr. 181-UAR; 393-UAR; Ln.
1285-EGT/Cr. 637-EGT; and Ln. 1439-1440/Cr. 719-EGT) and for the First
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT). A Project Completion
B:APPWRWrWi 20. 16=



-6-
Report has been issued for the Fruit and Vegetable Project (Ln. 1276-EGT).
The performance of agricultural development projects in Egypt has been
mixed, reflecting institutional constraints, project complexity, inadequate
budgetary allocations and procurement delays. Shortages of funds,
inadequate salaries and the lack of incentives hamper the efforts of the
civil service. In spite of these problems, advances have been made in
rehabilitating existing facilities and in providing a systematic operation
and maintenance (O&M) program in the irrigation subsector.
1.22    Lessons Learned.  The Bank's long association with, and
substantial support to, GOE's program to improve the production efficiency
of the sector has provided certain guidelines for future agricultural
projects: (i) the most effective projects are simple and preferably involve
only one implementing ministry; (ii) the project implementation period
should take into account factors that usually cause delays, viz.,
procurement problems, staff shortages, and inadequate budgetary
allocations; (iii) the Government must be fully committed to the project;
and (iv) the strengthening of the management capability of agencies
responsible for project implementation must receive priority. These
lessons, and the experience gained from the first project (paras. 2.14-
2.16), have been incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
1.23    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The current Bank strategy for
assistance to Egypt gives high priority, in a constrained budget situation,
to financing projects which improve the utilization of existing capacities,
particularly in commodity-producing sectors such as agriculture. With
demand rapidly increasing, there is a pressing need to support agricultural
production. The pumping stations play a pivotal role in the operation of
the vast irrigation and drainage network in Egypt, which is crucial to
agricultural production. The rehabilitation of the aging pumping stations
was recommended as a priority operation in the Irrigation Subsector Review
carried out by the Bank in 1981. The first stage of the program is now
being successfully implemented. The Bank's continued support will
contribute to maintaining the Mechanical and Electrical Department's (MED)
equipment and civil works, as well as GOE's vital infrastructure in the
irrigation and drainage subsector. Bank financing also allows for untied
procurement, which in the first project resulted in competitive prices and
the expansion of project coverage. In addition, the Bank has been able to
provide objective advice on project implementation.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location. Climate and Soils
2.01    Location.  The project area is the agricultural land serviced by
about 50 pumping stations in six governorates in the delta, two
governorates in middle Egypt and three governorates in upper Egypt. The
total area served by the project is estimated at 0.85 million fd, or 12% of
Egypt's cultivated land.
tAPPAYrApI 20, tSO



- 7 -
2.02    Climate.  Egypt is part of the desert belt of North Africa and
Arabia; the country is warm to hot with a short, mild winter.  Rainfall is
almost entirely limited to a narrow band along the Mediterranean coast,
which receives some 190 mm per year. Annual average rainfall decreases
rapidly to the south, being 20 mm in Cairo and a negligible 1.4 mm at
Aswan. Temperatures change perceptibly from the coast to the hotter and
drier south.  Winters are mild, with mean minimum temperatures of
P- roximately 60C in the delta and 120C in upper Egypt. Summers are
t 4ically warm in the daytime but mild at night; mean maximum temperatures
are around 320C - 350C in upper Egypt. Because of the scarcity of
rainfall, irrigation is crucial for agricultural production.
2.03    Soils.  Most soils in the delta belong to the recent Nile alluvium
and consist of homogeneous, mostly montmorillonitic, clays which become
heavier towards the coast. In scattered areas throughout the delta,
lighter loams occur. In upper Egypt, soils tend to be coarser and less
deep. The alluvial soils of the delta and Nile Valley are fertile and
productive, provided adequate moisture levels are maintained. As a result
of the loss of sediment from the Nile due to the construction of the High
Aswan Dam (HAD), nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizers have become necessary
to achieve high yields. Salinity problems are evident in areas of poor
drainage.
B. Land Tenure and Cropoing Patterns
2.04    Land Tenure.  Farm sizes are generally small, averaging one to two
feddan. While the agrarian reform law limits farm size to 50 fd for an
individual and 100 fd for a family, nearly 45% of Egypt's farms are only 1
feddan or less; 83% of small farmers hold only 37X of the total area.
Fragmentation of holdings is common in Egypt; however, leasing plays an
important role in consolidating fragmented holdings. Further, since the
early sixties, the Government has attempted to deal with fragmentation by
grouping individual plots into large, village-level crop rotation blocks,
without affecting ownership rights. This policy has had apparent success
in areas where sugarcane is grown. As a result of rapid population
increases, average farm size has declined further, and the number of small
farms is steadily increasing.
2.05    Cronging Patterns.  Cropping patterns in Egypt are influenced by a
combination of factors, including soil and climate limitations, government
policies, commodity and input prices. Cotton, rice, wheat, maize and
berseem together account for over 80% of the cropped area. Wheat and
berseem are the principal winter crops; in summer, cotton and rice are
important cash crops, while maize and sorghum are major subsistence crops.
Sugarcane is an important crop mainly in upper Egypt. Over the past decade,
horticultural crops (such as citrus and vegetables) have increased
dramatically, both in area and production.
2.06    The cropping pattern in all parts of Egypt is based on a three-
year rotation, with wheat, berseem and maize the most widely grown crops.
BAPPWRTAU 20, 1990



Cropping intensities in Egypt are generally very high, averaging more than
190X (excluding perennial crops) (Annex III, Table 1). Standards of
production are generally high, and future yield increases should mainly
come from more reliable sources o7 irrigation water, as well as increased
and improved input use and improved varieties.
2.07    The project area covers about 850,000 feddans under cultivation,
of which 600,000 feddans are under the firm program. Cropping patterns are
similar to other areas in Egypt. The major crops grown are berseem, maize,
wheat, cotton, and rice.
2.08    Cropping patterns and yields are highly dependent on an adequate
and reliable supply of irrigation water and timely disposal of drainage
water. The lack of water at critical times can reduce yields considerably,
and areas at the tail-end of canals are more vulnerable to water shortages.
A persistent under-supply of water would cause farmers to change the
cropping pattern to include less water sensitive crops which give a lower
return but reduce risk. Thus, drought-tolerant sorghum and groundnut
replace sugarcane, rice and maize in some areas. Furthermore, summer
vegetable production in these areas would also be limited. Persistent
deficiencies in removal of drainage water would, over a period of time,
raise the water-table and increase the level of salinity in the soil,
adversely affecting the yields of virtually all high value crops and
encourage shifting to more tolerant, lower-value crops.
C. Irrigation and Drainage Pumping Stations
2.09    MED operates 773 pumping stations, 675 of which are for irrigation
(including 272 booster pumping stations), and 98 drainage stations. in
addition, there are an estimated 247 tubewells providing irrigation from
groundwater. As summarized in Table 2.1, the majority of the stations
(nearly 70X) lie in the delta area in lower Egypt.
Table 2.1 Pumping Stations Distribution
No. of Stations
NED Directorate  Irrication                       Number of
Main   Booster    rinaae  Total    Tubewells
South - Upper Egypt  89           7       96       -
Middle - Upper Egypt  23  -       4       27       8
North - Upper Egypt  63    35    16      114       -
East Delta       22    60        36      1i8      14
Middle Delta    130    52        22      204      43
North - West Delta   10  -       12       22       -
South - West Delta    6    125    1      192      182
Total           403   272        98      773      247
BAPP.rAp 20. 1o91



-9-
2.10     About 90 of these stations were constructed prior to 1952 and
another 683 between 1952 and 1981. Station discharge capacities range from
small units for irrigation of less than 0.5 cms to very large drainage
stations with capacities of 75 cms. Similarly, the areas served by the
stations vary considerably -- ranging from less than 100 fd for a small
irrigation station to over 100,000 feddans for large drainage stations.
Irrigation pumping stations with a station capacity of less than 1.0 cms
number 172. The average discharge capacity of the irrigation station
(excluding booster and smaller stations with a capacity of less than 1.0
cms) is about 6.5 cms. For the drainage stations, the average discharge
capacity is estimated at around 20 cms. Most of the stations work round-
the-clock, divided into three shifts of eight hours each.
2.11     The pumping plant varies considerably in type and general
arrangement. The majority of the larger stations in lower Egypt have
adopted the inclined spindle axial or semi-axial pump arrangement. In
upper Egypt where t'ne pumps generally have to deliver water to higher
elevations, the vertical spindle pattern is more common. Nearly all the
pumps are driven by slip-ring type induction motors that are controlled by
manually operated starters employing air-or water-cooled resistances. For
the larger stations, power is generally supplied at 6 kv from local
substations, and the motors are normal for that voltage. For motors with
an output of less than 200 kw, transformers are used to reduce the voltage
from 6kv to 380 volts.
2.12     Maintenance of PumDing Stations.  Routine and minor maintenance
and repairs are often carried out at the pump station, with more involved
work being undertaken at the central workshops and electrical laboratories.
A major problem faced by maintenance staff is the shortage of spare parts
because of limited foreign exchange allocations for imports. Due partly to
inadequate preventive maintenance in the past, and to the fact that a large
number of stations are more than 20 years old, the demand for repair work
and spare parts is progressively increasing. In many instances, the
workshops have to improvise, often making the simpler spare parts
themselves, waich is not always the most satisfactory solution.
2.13     Technical Problems and Constraints.  A large number of stations
are old, generally dating back more than 20 years, and therefore require
frequent general overhauls. The average age of the stations identified for
rehabilitation *under the proposed project is 25 years, with 70% of these
stations more than 20 years old. Another problem caused by inadequata
maintenance and a shortage of spare parts is the lack of stand-by capacity
and the more or less continuous operation of many stations, which leads to
poor performance and frequent breakdowns. A selection criteria for
implementing a program of rehabilitation of pumping stations was agreed
with MED (para. 3.02). Typical problems common to many of the pumping
stations include:
(a)       inadequate capacity, particularly at some of the
important drainage stations which were designed and
EkAPPJW AtU 20, 1960



10 -
built prior to the construction of the High Aswan Dam
(HAD);
(b)       the absence of standby pump units at some stations,
causing operational problems when a unit breaks down;
(c)       problems with switchgears, particularly low and medium
voltage ones, as well as with circuit breakers;
(d)       failures of speed reduction units (gearboxes),
particularly of the inclined pump-motor installations;
(e)       highly saline water at drainage stations which often
leads to corrosion problems;
(f)       the high maintenance cost of diesel-driven pump units,
particularly floating pumping stations in upper Egypt;
(g)       the generally poor condition of buildings and ancillary
equipment such as gates, valves and cranes;
(h)       the lack of electrically-operated cranes at the larger
stations which significantly slows down maintenance
operations; and
(i)       inadequate trash cleaning at the drainage pumping
stations.
2.14     Review of First Project (Ln. 2270-EGT).  After a slow start, good
progress was made in rehabilitating the pumping stations. Due to a
substantial cost underrun resulting from the ICB procurement of pumps and
machinery, the scope of the project was significantly revised in 1986. As
a result of this revision, the project will have financed the
rehabilitation of more than 70 pumping stations by the time of its expected
completion at the end of 1990.
2.15     Pump station maintenance procedures were reviewed by consultants
who made recommendations on maintenance programming in 1986. The principal
recommendations were: (a) to establish a directorate of inspection
reporting directly to the First Undersecretary of MED; (b) to strengthen
the civil works maintenance capability of the central and field
directorates; (c) to gradually eliminate workshops at the district level,
replacing them with better equipped inspectorate level workshops; (d) to
provide mobility for workshops and other field staff; (e) to introduce a
comprehensive preventive maintenance schedule for each station; and (f) to
ensure that written instructions and manufacturer's O&M manuals exist at
all stations. MED has gradually begun to implement the recommendations
mentioned in (d), (e), and (f) above. Under the proposed project, the
implementation of these recommendations would be accelerated. MED agrees
with the recommendations listed in (a) and (b), and these changes will be
made under the proposed project (paras. 4.04 and 4.05). As to item (c),
SP*PWTArU 20. IaN



- 11 -
MED is not in full agreement on the consultant's recommendation to
eliminate all district level workshops. MED's position is correct,
particularly for the workshops which service major drainage pumping
stations.
2.16     A consultant, who was appointed to design both an improved
accounts and store inventory control system and an O&M monitoring system,
recommended that a computerized Management Information System (MIS) be
established. MIS equipment is being installed and within two years should
be able to meet most of NED's critical requirements. The system will
provide, inter alia, a managed pump station operating and maintenance
system; a building and structure maintenance system; a store inventory
system; a cost, budget and accounting system; and a personnel and payroll
system. Future training needs, organizational requirements and equipment,
as well as software needs would be met through the proposed project.
D. Institutions
2.17     The Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPW).  The MPW
is responsible for the development of water resources and the construction
at.d maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems. The Irrigation
Department of the MNW is responsible for the operation and maintenance of
all public canals and all open drains not associated with subsurface pipe
drains. The semi-autonomous Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP) is responsible for implementing the drainage projects and
maintaining subsurface drainage systems, including open drains which
receive return flow from subsurface drains. Both of these organizations
are structured along regional lines with a General Directorate in each
Governorate. The Mechanical and Electrical Department (NED) of MPW is
responsible for installing, operating and maintaining all the pumping
stations. An outline of the MPW organization is given in Chart No. 1.
2.18     Mechanical and Electrical DeRartment.  MED is responsible for the
design, procurement, installation, operation and maintenance of all
irrigation and drainage pumping facilities. The Department is headed by a
First Undersecretary of State and, at its headquarters in Cairo, has two
Central Directorates, one for projects and another for administration and
finance. Under the Central Directorate for projects, there are four
General Directorates for upper Egypt, lower Egypt, civil works, and studies
and specifications, each headed by a Director General. Under the Central
Directorate for Administration and Finance there are two General
Directorates, one for procurement and supplies and another for finance, and
three Directorates for stores, financial inspection and administration.
2.19     In the field, MED is structured along regional lines.   There are
two Central Directorates for pumping stations 06M, each headed by an
Undersecretary of State, one for lower Egypt with its headquarters at Tanta
and the other for upper Egypt with its headquarters at Nag Hamadi. Seven
Regional Directorates, each headed by a Director General, are responsible
for maintaining all of the pumping stations. Four of these are in lower
:Pm.WrAWl 20.1S90



- 12 -
Egypt (east delta, middle delta, northwest delta and southwest delta); and
three in upper Egypt (north, middle and south upper Egypt). Typically, a
Directorate consists of three to four Inspectorates (Tafteesh), with three
or four districts (Handassa) under each Inspectorate. In all, there are 26
Inspectorates and 81 districts. In addition, there are General
Directorates for workshops and for electrical laboratories, with one of
each in both upper and lower Egypt. MED has a wide network of workshops, at
different organizational levels, which are being upgraded under the ongoing
first project (Ln. 22i0-EGT). Seven central workshops and electrical
laboratories are responsible for carrying out major repairs and for
assisting lower level workshops. The MED organization is shown in Chart
No. 2.
2.20     Manageement Information System (MIS).  MIS for MED is currently
being established. A project manager has been appointed, as well as a
staff of about 26 engineers, and technicians are now being trained. The
proposed organization under the ongoing project (Ln. 2270-EGT) envisages
setting up three primary computer centers at Cairo (MED headquarters),
Tanta (for lower Egypt), and at Nag Hamadi (for upper Egypt). In addition,
small comauter units, which would eventually be linked to their respective
centers, would be established at 7 regional directorates, 2 central
workshops and laboratories, 26 inspectorates and 12 regional/inspectorate
level workshops and laboratories. Under the ongoing project, the proposed
staffing for MIS includes the project manager, with three senior
programmers as managers for the three centers, and provisions for a staff
of programmers, analysts, and operators. Computer units at the regional
directorate level would be headed by a senior engineer, while those at the
inspectorate/workshop level would be headed by a programmer.
2.21     The MIS program being implemented is ambitious, using
minicomputers and PCs at all levels from headquarters down to the
inspectorate level. Most of the data related to each pumping station will
be compiled manually at the district level and sent to each inspectorate
for inputting into the computers. The information systems are being
designed and developed by the supplier of the computer equipment. However,
problems could arise from the inadequacy of manual systems and base data,
and from the lack of previous experience with computers and computerized
systems within MED. Furthermore, adequate training in different aspects of
MTS management and operations is needed. These issues will be addressed in
the proposed project.
2.22     Agricultural Support Services.  The department of agricultural
extension of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) is
responsible for both the control and enforcement of government target
acreage for important crops and agricultural extension. Agricultural
research is orgarized through the semi-autonomous agricultural research
center. Most research is organized by commodity, with emphasis on cotton.
The effectiveness of the services has been mixed. External assistance,
has, however, recently contributed to more effective research on cereals
and legumes.
B:APPUrApau z, 190



- 13 -
2.23     The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
is responsible for providing nearly all agricultural credit and input
supply to farmers. It operates through a network of cooperatives and
village banks, and access to the service is generally adequate. Most
credit is provided in kind. Inputs are supplied at subsidized prices, but
there is also a free market for fertilizers and pesticides. Agricultural
cooperatives undertake the procurement and distribution of all subsidized
inputs in cooperation with PBDAC. Cooperatives also play a role in the
marketing of rice and cotton under the quota system.
2.24     The seed industry is supported by established photosanitary
regulations with well-structured links to agricultural research and plant
breeding institutions and testing facilities. Most fertilizers are
produced locally and sold through the PBDAC. Voliar and compound
fertilizers are imported and distributed through private markets.
Pesticides are also distributed by the PBDAC and through the private
market.
III. TME PROJECT
A. Proiect DescriRtion
3.01     The project would include:
(a)       Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations
(i) construction of six new stations; extension of
three stations for additional capacity, including
replacement of equipment in the stations; and
replacement of nine existing floating stations in
upper Egypt with land-based stations;
(ii) replacement of the pumps and motors in eight
stations; and
(iii)an indicative program to replace electro-
mechanical equipment, where needed, for the
remaining stations and provide spare parts over a
period of four years to meet the overall
requirements of MED.
(b)      Workshops. Electrical Laboratories and Miscellaneous
Eguioment
(i) provision of 14 light mobile workshops/electrical
laboratories, equipment for central electrical
laboratories and workshops, and standardized tools
and testing instruments for 200 pumping stations;
B APPWrApi 20, 1u



- 14 -
(ii) the electrification of cranes, where needed, and
provision of new electric cranes and mechanized
trash rack cleaning equipment; and
(iii)the provision of power capacitors for 20 pumping
stations to correct power factor; repair of the
existing 80-ton floating dock at Aswan used for
the repair of floating stations barges, which
would include the replacement of 2 tug-boat
engines; and provision of vehicles for field
operations.
(c)       Civil Works
(i)  construction of new pumping stations and/or the
extension of existing stations, including the
land-based stations in upper Egypt listed under
(a) (i), above;
(ii) raising of inlet and outlet platforms and major
rehabilitation for selected stations under the
indicative program;
(iii'repairs and rehabilitation, over a period of four
years, for the remaining stations under the
indicative program; and
(iv) construction of new workshops, stores, offices and
staff housing and the repair/rehabilitation of
existing facilities.
(d) Institutional Supvort
(i) provision of additional computer equipment and
related software for MIS, including microwave
telecommunication equipment.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
(i) provision of specialized services for the ongoing
MIS program and for the studies related to O0M
costs, budgets; and the strengthening of MED
electrical laboratories;
(ii) provisions for monitoring flow quality and studies
related to environmental issues for the two
pumping stations near Alexandria;
B*""rZ" 2a, IN



* 15 -
(iii)overseas training of key MED staff for MIS; for
mechancial, electrical and civil engineering; and
for stores, financial and management aspects; and
(iv) provision of in-house training programs for M1IS,
electrical laboratories, stores and financial
aspects.
B. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations
3.02     Project Approach.  Given the large number of pumping stations in
Egypt with varied technical specifications and t'e difficulty of pre-
determining their rehabilitation requirements through 1997, it is not
practicable to detail all the specific quantitative requirements which are
likely to arise during the proposed project's seven-year implementation
period. The experience of the first project indicates a need for
flexibility. MED has adopted an approach similar to the one used in the
first project and has proposed a two-part program. The first part is more
or less firm and includes the stations most urgently in need of
rehabilitation. The criteria used in selecting these stations were the
frequency of overhauls and repairs carried out in the past, the age of the
equipment, the lack of standby capacity or inadequate present capacity.
The second part of the program 1- more indicative -- a complete or partial
replacement of pumping units is determined primarily on the grounds of age
and not necessarily on the basis of present performance. An annual program
for rehabilitation would be agreed upon each year, one year in advance of
implementation, for the indicative program. The operation and maintenance
data generated by the MIS for each pumping station starting in 1990 would
enable MED to decide on the need of rehabilitation. MED would consider the
following basic guidelines in the preparation of an annual work plan for
rehabilitation under the Indicative Program:
(a)       Station capacity.  Stations without stand-by units
and/or those where irrigation and drainage requirements
have changed shculd be provided with additional units.
This may be accomplished by providing either larger
capacity units or by expanding the number of units which
would require a careful cost and peak operation
analysis. From the technical/operational point of view,
it would be desirable to consider an increase in the
number of pumpsets, thus providing greater flexibility
of operation and reducing the effects on station output
of pump breakdowns and emergency maintenance
requirements. A stand-by capacity of 15 - 202 is
recommended.
mAPP U 20. 1B99



- 16 -
(b)       Instrumentation.  Basic alarm facilities should be
provided at all stations to alert operators to possible
mechanical problems.
(c)       Maintenance.  The lack of proper maintenance results in
increased pump wear and ultimately in major pump
failures. To avoid extensive wear to impeller blades,
casings, wear rings and, ultimately, the bearing house,
bottom guide bearings should be replaced as soon as any
damage is noticed.
(d)       Pump Efficiency.  Pump efficiency is reduced as impeller
clearance increases, leading to greatly increased power
cost. Existing pumps should be periodically checked,
and, if the impeller clearance exceeds 20% of that
specified by the manufacturer, pumps should be
overhauled. A decrease in pump and/or electric motor
efficiency of about 20% calls for the overhaul of the
units, and if the estimated cost of overhauling exceeds
70% of a new unit cost, these units should be replaced.
3.03     The Firm Profram.  Under the firm program, six existing stations
with serious structural damage would be replaced. In most cases, the
discharge capacity would remain the same.  The project would provide for
the construction of three new pump stations as extensions to existing ones
in order to increase capacity and provide stand-by units. Some of the
equipment in these three stations would also be replaced. Details of
location, function, service area and station capacity (present and
proposed) are given in Annex II, Table 1.
3.04     The project would provide for converting nine floating stations in
upper Egypt into fixed, land-based stations. These are mostly diesel-
operated, old (dating back to the 1950s and before) stations that are
difficult to maintain. Prior to tne construction of the HAD, the level of
the Nile fluctuated by as much as 15 m between seasons; consequently, there
was a need for floating stations.
3.05     Eight stations that need constant attention have been identified.
In addition to the general problem of increases in bearing and wearing ring
clearance and blade tip clearance, some pumps have suffered extensive
cavitation and corrosion damage. Some of the motors have suffered
deterioration from failures of the winding insulation. The general
condition of switchgears, controls and starting equipment is poor. In most
cases, it is difficult to keep the units in operation due to the shortage
of necessary spare parts. Most of the equipment at these stations will be
replaced (Annex II, Table 2).
3.06     Some relatively new stations, which were built in the 1970s and
1980s with either locally fabricated equipment or old pumps or motors, are
not functioning efficiently. The partial or total replacement of the
faulty equipment is included under the project.
&APPMMW 20, 1090



- 17 -
3.07     The Indicative Program.  Replacement estimates for about 25
pumping stations are based on the past experience of MED and on the age of
the equipment. It is assumed that about 50X of the equipment will be
replaced in stations over 20 years old; this figure would increase to about
75X for equipment/stations 25 years or older. The project would also
provide for the procurement of necessary spare parts for about two years of
operation dfter rehabilitation. In view of the indicative nature of the
program, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) MED would
prepare a detailed work program every two years (1992, 1994 and 1996)
specifying btations expected to be rehabilitated with estimated cost,
procurement and implementation schedules, and the program would be subject
to Bank review and agreement before proceeding with procurement; and (b)
MED would submit for Bank review by March 31 of each year an annual report
giving details of the previous year's achievements and constraints, as
well as the budget provisions for the subsequent year, and the program
would incorporate Bank comments before budgets for both 0&M and local
counterpart funds would be approved.
Workshops. Electrical Laboratories and Miscellaneous EquiRment
3.08     Workshops and Electrical Laboratories.  The project would provide
for only selective upgrading of MED workshop facilities, since these have
been significantly strengthened unider the first project (Ln. 2270-EGT).
Additional equipment would be provided for two inspectorate level workshops
in Upper Egypt (at Aswan, and Tanta) which serve major drainage pumping
stations. The equipment is listed in Annex II, Table 3. The project would
also finance the procurement of 14 light mobile workshops (2 for each
regional directorate) and 3 types of standard sets of tools and testing
instruments for 200 small, medium and large stations.
3.09     Trash Rack Cle&ining Equipment and Cl mes.  The project would
provide for the installation of mechanical t.lsh rack cleaning equipment at
12 stations where weeds are a particular prok em. The project would also
provide for the electrification of existing pump house cranes at about 15
larger stations and new cranes at about 6 stations.
3.10     Floating Dock Repair.  The existing 80-ton floating dock at Aswan
is in need of repairs. The floating dock is used for making repairs on
barges from the floating pumping stations and on tugboats used by MED in
Upper Egypt. It would be overhauled under the project, and two tug boat
engines would be provided.
3.11    EauiDment and Vehicles.  In order to improve mobility, vehicles
are urgently needed for the directorates, workshops and important pumping
stations. The provision of vehicles and equipuent for field and pumping
station operations is detailed in Annex II, Table 4, and includes 5 cars,
40 double and single cab pick-ups, 7 buses, and 50 motor cycles.
9AWRTAp.l 2, tIo



- 18 -
Civil Works
3.12     There is a pressing need to restore pump house structures, the
maintenance of which has been generally neglected. The project would aim
to eliminate the backlog of pump house structure maintenance. While the
necessaxy works would vary between stations, for the project as a whole
they would include:
(a)       the repair of damaged or deteriorated concretA at pump
houses and substations, and intake and outlet piers;
(b)       the sand blasting of damaged surfaces and exposed
reinforcement bars,in the case of damaged columns,
provision of grouted extended sleeves with new
reinforced concrete;
(c)       corrosion protection for stop logs, trash rack panels
and the steel structures close to or in the water;
(d)       the water proofing of pump house and control panel
roofs; and
(e)       the rehabilitation of floors, stairways, windows, indoor
and outdoor lighting; and the cleaning and painting of
ceilings, walls and pump pits.
3.13     The project would provide for the construction of simple sheds for
two small stations in upper Egypt; pumping stations under the Indicative
Program would be rehabilitated over a period of four years. New buildings
would be constructed to house transformers at one pumping station in Lower
Egypt ard a new workshop at Boweer.
3.14     Most of the offices, workshops, stores and staff houses are in
need of repair and rehabilitation. As repairs and restoration will be
expensive, the project would provide for urgent repairs but would spread
these out over the six years of implementation. Many inspectorates and
pump stations do not have adequate staff houses, particularly in remote
locations; this makes it difficult for MED to recruit and retain staff. A
provision has been made for the construction of about 70 houses for the
field staff and about 135 houses for the operators at various pumping
stations in boti Upper and Lower Egypt (see Annex II. Table 5).
Institutional Support
3.15     Computer and Microwave Telecommunication Equipment.  A lump sum
provision of about US$0.4 million is made to cover additional computer
equipment and related software for the MIS. A national microwave
telecommunication system is expected to be in place within the next two
years, at which time there will be a need to connect MED directorates,
&APaPWT:GU 20, 111s1



- 19 -
inspectorates and major pumping stations with the national network. A
provision of about US$0.35 million is made for this purpose.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.16     Consultancy services would be requivbC for ongoing MIS program for
about three years (1992-94) and for studies related to future MIS needs and
microwave telecommunications requirements after 1992. Provision has been
made for a total of about 28 staff-months of internationally-recruited and
48 staff-months of locally-recruited professional services. These
provisions would be covered under an ongoing Irrigation Management System
(IMS) program assisted by US Agency for International Development (USAID).
MPW would require about 10 staff-months of internationally-recruited and
about 30 staff-months of local inputs to complete the base data on budget,
O&M requirements of all irrigation/drainage facilities, land tax and
various mechanisms to recover cost of O&M from the beneficiaries. MPW
expects to undertake this study by expanding the scope of work for a
similar study to be undertaken under the Preventive Maintenance/Channel
Maintenance Projects financed by USAID. Services would be required for
strengthening MED electrical laboratories, which would be undertaken either
by a specialized department of MPW or through other bilateral assistance
sources. Five staff-months of internationally-recruited and eight staff-
months of local input are estimated. Provision is also made for seven
staff-months of internationally-recruited and 10 staff-months of local
input to monitor quality of effluent for two pumping stations near
Alexandria and study alternatives with estimated cost for primary
clarification. MNPW would undertake the monitoring and for specialized
input to complete the study, if required, it would seek assistance from
other bilateral sources. The terms of reference for the studies are given
in Annex IV and specialized input given in Annex 2, Table 6. Assurances
were obtained at negotiationtis that NPW would (a) undertake studies and
engage consultants according to the agreed terms of reference; (b) seek for
the Bank's review and agreement for any changes in these agreed terms of
reference introduced by other cofinanciers; and (c) contract services with
consultants whose experience, qualifications, terms and conditions of
employment are acceptable to the Benk and/or other cofinanciers.
3.17     Training.  MED has been unable to send staff on training courses
abroad because of limited access to loan and grant funds from bilateral and
multi-lateral financing sources. To correct this situation, MPW has made
the arrangements for such training as detailed below using funds provided
by USAID under an ongoing project:
(a)       overseas training for 10 key MIS staff in systems
analysis, the use of the latest software, microwave
telecommunication, and other computer technology aspects
(20 man-months);
(b)       overseas training for 30 key MED staff in mechanical,
electrical and civil engineering; and stores and
financial aspects (40 man-months);
GAPP.rAl 20 191



- 20 -
(c)       training in equipment operation and maintenance for
eight Liddle-level engineering staff (two man-months
each) from MED's workshops and field directorates; and
(d)       20 study tours of a fortnight to 3 weeks each, for MED
senior management staff.
Status of Project PreRaration
3.18     MED identified various components and proposed a list of stations
for rehabilitation in May 1989. An FAO/CP team visited Egypt in June 1989
and submitted a preparation report in August 1989; this report formed the
basis of the Bank's appraisal in October 1989. MED acquired considerable
experience in procurement and implementation during the first project.
Bidding documents prepared for the first project would be used in tenders
for the proposed project, with only minor modification of the technical
specifications needed. It is expected that MED would submit all tender
documents for the first year of implementation soon after negotiations and
award contracts immediately after loan effectiveness. Similarly, with the
assistance of the Irrigation Dep.rtment, MED would be able to prepare for
award soon after loan effectiveness four civil works tenders for the
contruction of offices, stores, workshops and for staff housing in both
Upper and Lower _4ypt. All of these facilities use buildings for which
standard designs exist. The extension of pumping stations and the
construction of new facilities is within the existing compounds of MED, so
there is no need of land acquisition.
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.19     The total project cost is estimated at LE 169.2 million (US$49.1
million) of which LE 111.4 million (US$32.4 million), or 66X, is foreign
exchange. Project costs were based on quantity estimates for the major
items of rehabilitation and unit rates obtained from various contracts
recently awarded under the first project, with some adjustment for
variation in the unit prices of certain bids. MED pays taxes and duties
ranging between 10 and 201 for imported equipment and materials; this is
reflected in the unit rates. All costs were indexed to a common level for
June 1990. Physical contingency factors were based on the degree of
preparation and the firmness of details available on the replacement or
rehabilitation of equipment; these were 10% for the partial replacement of
equipment, spare parts for existing equipment, and the replacements
proposed under the Indicative Program. An allowance of 15X was used for
civil works for pumping stations, staff housing, workshops and repair
works. No physical contingency was applied to equipment for new or
extended stations, where an entire unit or piece of equipment was replaced,
vehicles and miscellaneous equipment. The project completion date is
June 30, 1997. Costs due to expected price increases over the
BAWRTAPr 20. IBM



- 21 -
implementation period amount to about 20.12 of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, assuming the following annual inflation rates.
1990       1991       1992       '993        1994        1995        1996        1997
----percent----------------------------------
Foreign Exchange
Conent                     4.90       4.90       4.90       4.90        4.90        3.70       3.70          3.70
Local Currency
Coiponent                 15.0       15.0       12.0       10.0         8.0         7.0        7.0           7.0
The implicit exchange rate used in the cost calculations reflects price
contingencies based on the constant purchasing power parity of the Egyptian
pound.
3.20            Details of cost estimates are presented in Annex I, Tables 1-7
and are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
(tE '0001                                      IUSS '0001
I Total                                        I Total
I foreign  Base                               I foreign  Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs   Local   foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
xxx:Z
A. REHABILITATION OF PUNPING STaTIONS
NEl!tr REPLACED STATIONS                          6.708.?7  9.730.8  16.439.6        59       17  2.580.3  3.742.6  6.322.9         59       17
EXTENSION S REPLACENENT OF EQUIPIIENT
IN EXISTING STATIONS                          4.609.7   9.214.9  13,824.6         67      14   1,773.0  3,544.2  5.317.2         67      14
IEN LAND BASED STATIONS
REPLACING FLOATING STATIONS                    1.540.1   3,321.1   4.861.2        68       5     592.3  1.277.4  1.869.1         68       5
REPLACENENT OF EQUIPMENT IN
THE EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS                  4.691.2  13.644.8  18.336.1        74       18   1,804.3  5.248.0  7.052.3        74      Is
REHABILITATION OF RENAINING
STATIONS lINDICATIVE PROGRAMI                  5,604.4  IS. 833. 6  21.438. 0     74      22  2. 155. 5  6,089.8  8.245. 4       74      22
Sub-total REHA8BILITATION OF PUMPING STATIONS       23. 154.1  51.745.3  74.899.4       69      76   8.905.4 19.902.0 28.807.5         69      76
B. IORKSHOPS. LABORATORIES S
MISC. EOUIPNENT
WORKSHOP EQUIPNENT                                  840.0  2. 350.0   3.200.0        74       3     323.1   907.7  1, 230.8         74       3
E LABORATORIES                                      540.0   1.260.0   1 800.0        70       2     207.7   484.6    692.3          70       2
VEHICLES AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT                      1.561. 3   3.663.8   5.225.0       70       5     600.5  1,409. 1 2. 009.6        70       5
CONPUTERS AND TELECOMUINICATION                     400.0   1.600.0   2.000.0        80       2      153.8    615.4    769.2        80       2
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT                             726.0  1t624.0   2,350.0         69       2     279.2    624. 6    903.8        69       2
Sub-Total NORItSHOPS, LABORATORIES A
MISC. EQUIPNENT                                   4,067.3  10.507.8  14,575.0        72       15  1, 564.3  4,041.4  5. 605.8       72       IS
C. BUILDING FACILITIES
STAFF HOUSING                                     4,266.4   1 066. 6   5,333.0       20       5   1,640.9    410.2  2,051.2         20       5
Sub-Total BUILDING FACILITIES                        4,266.4   1.066.6   5,333.0        20       5   1,640.9    410.2  2.051.2         20       5
0. TECOIICAt ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
lUNAISGENT INFGORMTION SERVICE                      582.0     918.0   1,500.0        61       2     223.8   353.1    576.9          61       2
OSM REQUIRENENT STRENGTHENING NED
AND PRIVITIZATION OF REPAIR SERVICES             337.0     513.0     850.0        60        1     129.6    197.3    326.9        60        1
ENVIRONENTAL NOIIITORING AND SERVICE                174.5    220.5      395.0        56       0      67. 1    84.8    151.9         56       0
TRAINING                                            363.0   1,287.0   1. 650, 0      78       2      139.6   495.0    634.6         78       2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING          1, 456.5   2,938.5   4.395.0       67       4      560.2  1. 130.2  1. 690.4      67       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  32.944.3  68. 258. 1  99.202.4      67      100  12.670.9 25.483.9 38.154.8        67      100
Physical Contingencies                              3.108.3   3,954.0   7.062.3        56       7   1. 195.5  1.520.8  2,716.3        56        7
Price Contingenies                                 21.735,9  41. 177.1  62,913.0       65      63   2 843. 3  5 367. 7  8 211. 0      65      22
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   57.788.5 111.389.2 169,177.7        65      171  16,709.7 32.372.4 49.082.1        66      129
::======  ::=     =:::::::=  :::::=---:= =. ::::::: =:          = ::=::
&APPRWrTi 20, 1990



- 22 -
3.21     Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million would
finance about 72% of the project cost, net of duties and taxes, and would
meet about 96% of foreign costs. The technical assistance and training
component of the project would be financed by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) under an ongoing Irrigation Management
System (IMS) program. All local currency expenditures, including custom
duties for imported equipment, would be financed by the Government. The
proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2.
Teble 3.2: Firancina PLan
(US# million)
F9reic
Activities                    IBRD          Bilaterat Sources 'I  Local  Total
GOE
A. Puwping Stations Equipment and Works  25.97      -           13.73     39.70
B. lorkshtops Etec.Lab. & Misc.
Equipment                    5.00                -           2.20       7.20
C. Tech. Assist. and Training   0.03              .1.40         0.77       2.20
Total                          31.00               1.40         16.70     49.10
D. Procurement
3.22     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3, and proposed
equipment and the civil works tender processing and completion schedule are
shown in Annex I, Table 8.
3.23     EauiRment.  International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines would be used for the following works and
goods:
(a)   the construction, supply and installation of equipment for
six new stations; the extension/replacement of equipment in
three stations; and the conversion of eight floating to
land-based stations under five turnkey type of tenders
(US$14.4 million);
(b)   the replacement of equipment in eight stations under three
supply and installation tenders (US$5.2 million);
I/  Under ongoing project financed by USAID (US$1.10 million) and
other bilateral assistance sources (US$0.3 million).
&APP"RAp 20 IS9O



- 23 -
(c)   the replacement of equipment under the Indicative Program
for stations requiring complete replacement under two supply
and installation tenders (US$3.1 million);
(d)   workshops, electrical laboratories,
miscellaneous equipment and tools under two
tenders (US$3.3 million); and
(e)   vehicles and heavy equipment under one tender
(US$2.3 million).
These items represent 70% of total project costs (US$40.4 million)
including price contingencies but excluding physical contingencies, duties
and taxes. For goods, local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin,
or the actual custom duty, whichever is less.
3.24     Turnkey contracts are proposed for pumping stations which require
the construction of new pump houses. The designs of these buildings vary
according to the type of equipment proposed by various manufacturers.
Since bids allowing alternative proposals result in a cost-effective
solution, a turnkey operation was adopted in the ongoing project. For such
contracts, generally, the principal contractor is the supplier of equipment
who subcontracts civil works. Construction design and detailed drawings
are prepared by the principal contractor based on the site and equipment
requirements. In the past, GOE has asked that, in view of adequate local
contracting capacity, civil works under the turnkey contracts be carried
out using a local subcontractor. As such a condition is not acceptable to
the Bank, loan funds have not been disbursed against the civil works
component of the pumping stations. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that general conditions of contracts for turnkey operations to
be eligible for disbursement from the loan would specify that the principal
contractor would be responsible for supply of machinery and equipment, its
installation, execution of related civil works and commissioning of the
facilities upon completion.
3.25     Most of the mechanical and electrical equipment and spare parts
under the Indicative Program, and the equipment for eight stations under
the Firm Program, has to be compatible with existing equipment. Similarly,
additional computer and microwave telecommunication equipment should be
compatible with existing equipment purchased under the first project. Such
equipment and spare parts are only available from the original
manufacturer. For these reasons, these items would be procured directly on
sole-source basis from the original manufacturer or his authorized
representative or by Limited International Bidding (LIB), if there are
several established suppliers. The total value of these items (excluding
taxes and duties) would be about US$8.0 million.
BAPt.APTaP m. lESO



- 24 -
Table 3.3 Procurement Arrangements SI
ICB      L    C     8     i        N/A    T OTAL
------------------------(US$ Million---------------
A. Eauiient and Materials
For new stations, extension replacement of   16.30                                             I. 30
equipment and conversion to land-based        (12.67)                                         (12.67)
stations (Turnkey contracts)
Replacing equipment in existing stations        5.90                  2.70                      8.60
(4.50)                 (2.00,                   (6.50)
Partial replacement of equipment witt           3.50                  5.00                      8.50
similer type and spare parts                   (2.80)                (3.80)                    (6.60)
Workshops & electrical laboratories             2.50                                            2.50
equipment                                      (1.80)                                          (1.80)
Miscellaneous Equipment                         1.20                                            1.20
(0.80)                                          (0.80)
Vehicles and heavy equipment                    2.60                                            2.60
(1.80)                                          (1.80
Computer & telecomunications                                          1.00                      1.00
(0.80)                   (0.80)
SUBTOTAL                                           32.00                   8.70                    40.70
(24.37)                 6.60                    (30.97)
B.  Civil Works
New offices, workshop, stores and staff houses            3.30                                  3.30
(0.0)                                (0.0)
Repairs and restoration of existing                       0.70                                  0.70
pump stations                                             (0.0)                                 (0.0)
Repairs and rehabilitation of existing,                   2.20                                  2.20
offices, stores, workshops and staff house              40 0                                    (0.0)
SUBTOTAL                                                      6.20                                  6.20
(0.0)                                (0.0)
C. Technical Assistance and Traininal'
Consultants for MIS                                                   0.73                      0.73
Environmental                                                         0.23                     0.23
Other studies                                                         0.42                     0.42
(0.03)                   (0.03)
Training                                                              0.82                     0.82
SUBTOTAL                                                                  2.20                      2.20
(0.03)                   (0.03)
TOTAL                                             32.00       6.20       10.90                    49.10
(24.37)     (0.0)      (6.63)                   (31.0)
!/ Figures in parentheses reqpresent amounts to be financed under the
Bank loan.
k/  Direct purchase or lib for equipment and material.
I/ Financed by 554Th (F.E. components US$1.1. million) under an ongoing
DHS Program and other bilateral assistance source (US$0.3 million).
SLPPw4As 2D, IUO



- 25 -
3.26     Civjl Works.  Civil works for the pump stations, other than those
under turnkey contracts, and for workshops, offices, staff houses and
repairs of facilities are small and scattered throughout the country and
are not suitable for ICB. These works amounting to US$5.5 million are to
be implemented under 12 contracts duiring the project implementation period
of six years, following LCB provedures. In order to make these procedures
consistent with Bank guidelines, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that: (a) all interested foreign bidders would be allowed to bid; and (b)
all bidders would be treated equally in terms of eligibility or in
furnishing bid or performance bonds.
3.27     Consultants.  Consultants for the technical assistance would be
engaged according to the procedures and guidelines of bilateral agencies
financing this component.
3.28    Review of Procurement.  The Bank would review about 11 contracts,
prior to tendering and award. These contracts are the ICB turnkey and
equipment contracts, as well as all other contracts, estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$750,000 or more. Such a review would cover about 80% of
total contract value, on about US$38.5 million. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review by the Bank.
E. Disbursements
3.29     The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million would be disbursed in
seven years against the following categories at rates shown in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4 Disbursements Schedule
Cateapry                         Amonmt CUSS)   X of Exoenditures to be Financed
1.Suppty and instatlation of equipment         100% of foreign expenditures
(including spare parts) and related civil     100% of local expenditures
works for pumping stations      25,600,000     (ex factory cost)
2.Equipment and materials other than  4,900,000  a
punping stations.
3.Consultants and Training          25,000     100% of all expenditure.
4.Unallocated                      475.000
TOTAL                            31.000,000
Disbursements would be made against full documentation except for payments
against contracts of less than US$300,000 equivalent, which would be
disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOEs). It is estimated that
total procurement under SOEs would be about US$ 3 million. Supporting
documents for SOE claims would be retained at MED headquarters and made
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
GAPP MApW 20, I9S0



- 26 -
3.30     The proposed allocation of loan proseeds is presented in Annex 1,
Table 9. The estimated schedule of IBRD disbursements is given below
(Table 3.5), and in Annex I, Table 10. The disbursement profile is
projected over a seven-year period from January 1991 to December 1997. The
profile follows fairly closely the disbursement for agriculture projects in
Egypt.
Table 3.5:  Disbrusements Schedule (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
91      92     93     94     95     96    97    98
Annual               0.1    1.0    3.5    5.5    7.5    8.0    4.0   1.4
Cummulative          0.1    1.1    4.6   10.1   17.6   25.6   29.6   31.0
F.  Accounts and Audits
3.31     The MED, like all government agencies, is subject to GOE
expenditure control and auditing procedures. The central directorate for
Administration and Finance of MED would be responsible for establishing and
maintaining separate accounts for the project, reflecting, in accordance
with appropriate accounting practices, the operations and expenditures of
the project. The Central Audit Organization (CAO), an independent auditing
agency currently responsible for auditing accounts of all of the Ministry
of Public Works and Water Resources (MPW) agencies, would audit the project
accounts. Generally, the CAO performs continuous audits, prepares two or
three interim reports each year and consolidates its findings in an annual
report. The CAO has been responsible for submitting audit reports for
other Bank-financed projects which have been found acceptable.   However,
there was slippage in submitting the audited accounts for the first project
(Ln. 2270-EGT) due to delays within MED in finalizing the accounts. In
order to strengthen the accounting function, provision has baen made under
the project for the training of accounting personnel and for the
streamlining of the accounting system within NED using the MIS. These
improvements will help ensure the timely preparatioi of accounts.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations: (a) that all project-related
contracts and documents would be kept for at least one yeair after the Bank
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the loan account was made; (b) that the accounts would be audited by
CAO or an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank; (c) that the audit
would include the examination of all Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
submitted to the Bank for reimbursement; and (d) that audited accounts,
together with the auditors' reports, both in English, would be furnished to
the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
EA PPrTAp 90, M9



- 27 -
G. Environmental Impact
3.32     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
envirorment and population within the area serviced by the improved
irrigation and drainage pumping stations. Improvement to these stations
would contribute towards ensuring the stability of the agriculttural system.
With declining drainage capabilities, the soils in the project area would
be subject to the gradual and slow process of salinization 'without
proJect". Project interventions would help keep and maintain the water
table at low levels, thereby promoting good hydraulic conditions in the
project area. Through the civil works restoration proposed including the
provision of houses and a safer water supply, the project would contribute
towards increased safety and better living conditions at pumping stations.
3.33     The El Owania Floating Station in Upper Egypt is located next to a
phosphate loading station on the Nile River and, consequently, is subject
to phosphate dust, which is a health hazard to pump operators and their
families living in the staff houses located near the pumping station. The
station is to be replaced with a land-based station. MED agreed to
relocate the station about 800 m south of the present location and to
connect the existing outlet channel by constructing a link channel running
northward from the new location parallel to the river. New operator houses
will be built close to the village of El Owania, which is located east of
the road and about 500 m from the proposed location of the station. The
relocation of staff houses and of the pumping station will create a safe
and hazard-free condition for MED staff and their families working at this
station. In order to relocate these facilities during the first two years
of implementation, agreement was reached at negotiations that MED would
award the contract for implementation of El Owania Pumping Station as soon
as the project is effective and complete the installation and operators
housing by December 31, 1992.
3.34     El Max Pumning Station. The principal industrial pollution problem
at El Max is the discharge of industrial effluent to Lake Maryut, which
ultimately passes through the El Max Pumping Station. The industries
discharge their effluent through the east treatment plant, west treatment
plant and directly to the lake from the Moharrem Bay Industrial Complex.
There are also additional discharges to Lake Maryut from the Alexandria and
Amryma petroleum refineries. The Alexandria Master Plan includes
provisions to transport Moharrem-Bay waste to the west treatment plant,
which is located closer to El Max. Both east and west treatment plants are
under construction and are expected to be in operation sometime in 1992.
These plants would provide only primary clarification of municipal and
industrial flow. It is possible, however, that these treatment plants may
result in more wastes being discharged into Lake Maryut and that the
quality of water to be pumped at the El Max Station, which is already low,
may deteriorate further, leading to serious corrosion problems. Although
no provision has been made to rehabilitate the El Max Station under the
project, the station will probably be rehabilitated under a subsequent
operation. Given the need for long-term monitoring and the lead-time
a3PP.RPiTl 2D, 1i0



- 28 -
available, it is important that the effluent quality issue be addressed
under this project and that a solution be agreed upon for the subsequent
operation.
3.35     In view of these uncertainiti-3s, a long-term monitoring plan is
required from now until at least two years after the Alexandria primary
clarification treatment plants are completed. A fortnightly reading of 24-
hour composite flow samples and of 14 conventional parameters (pH,
turbidity, settleable solids, total solids, dissolved solids, volatile
solids, chlorides, sulphates, alkalinity, hardness, oil and grease,
dissolved oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand, and chemical oxygen demand),
can be used to determine whether additioral pollution controls are needed.
A detailed study would be needed at the end of 1993 to assess the need for
further action to improve the quality of the water in Lake Maryut and at
the El Max Pumping Station. Provision has been made under the project for
this study. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, for the
rehabilitation of the El Max Pumping Station, under a subsequent operation,
MPW would: (a) monitor the quality of flow at fortnightly intervals
starting in May 1990 until two years after commissioning of the Western
treatment plant (1990-93); (b) carry out a detailed study of the best ways
to treat the effluent discharges into Lake Maryut, including studying
appropriate alternatives; and (c) ensure that the Government has made firm
arrangements, including financing for works and/or actions recommended
under (b) above.
3.36     El Tabva Pumping Station:  The El Tabya Station pumps polluted
water which contains heavy solids concentrations, some surface oil, much
trash and garbage, and chemicals from the National and Rakta Paper
Companies. These two companies discharge about 20X of the total flow
reaching El Tabya and other industries contribute another 15%. Thus, about
351 of the water pumped at El Tabya is untreated industrial waste. This
adversely affects the environment in the vicinity of Abu-Keir Bay and all
along the Abu-Keir drain and is responsible for the corrosion of pumping
station equipment.
3.37     The Rakta Paper Company is a chemical pulping and paper- making
plant. Its two pulp mills use rice straw and other pulp materials without
pulp liqour recovery; one of the two pulp mills discharges directly to the
Abu-Keir Bay, and the rest of the operation discharges to the Abu-Keir
drain about 800 m from the Tabya Pumping Station. The effluent is heavily
polluted with chemicals, solids and dissolved organics such as lignin (BOD
is about 1000 mg/l, COD 2000, total solids 2500, and dissolved solids
1800).
3.38     The National Paper Company is a mechanical pulping mill and paper-
making plant.  The raw materials are rice husk pulp and scrap paper.  The             k
entire discharge to the Abu-Keir drain is within one kilometer of the Tabya
Pumping Station, and the effluent is heavily polluted with solids (BOD is
about 2000 mg/l, COD 700, total solids 900, and dissolved solids 700).
BAPPRr:ApsU 2D, 19910



- 29 -
3.39     It is essential that primary clarification of the wastewater is
provided at both the Rakta and National Paper Mills. The effluent, after
primary clarification at the Rakta Paper Mill, should be discharged
directly to the Abu-Keir Bay, if the wastewater from the old pulp mill and
paper-making process is pumped and combined with the new pulp mill effluent
before primary clarification. The National Paper effluent should be
discharged to the Abu-Keir drain after primary clarification. This would
require monitoring the quality of the flow which is being discharged for
one year, as well as a detailed study of the various alternatives for
primary clarification at both paper mills. As with the El Max Station
(paras. 3.34-3.35), the rehabilitation of the El Tabya Station is not
included in the project and would be done in a subsequent operation.
However, given the importance of improving the quality of the industrial
waste discharged to the Abu-Keir drain, it is essential to monitor and
study the discharge from the El Tabya Station. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that, for the rehabilitation of the El Tabya Pumping
Station, under a subsequent operation, MPW would: (a) monitor the quality
of the flow starting in March 1991 for at least one year at regular
fortnightly intervals at various discharge points along the Abu-Keir drain,
particularly at the El Tabya Pumping Station, and at effluent discharge
points from the Rakta and National Paper Mills; (b) carry out a detailed
study with various alternatives for primary clarification at both paper
mills and/or the Tabya Pumping Station, as well as at other major
industries which contribute to the pollution, with an estimated cost and
implementation schedule; and (c) ensure that the Government has made firm
arrangements, including financing, for primary clarification works and
other actions recommended under (b) above.
IV. PROJECT I1PLEMENTATION
A. Coordination and Msaagement
4.01     Project Coordination:  MED would be responsible for implementing
the project, along lines broadly similar to those followed under the first
project. Although the project would be implemented primarily by MED, there
are other agencies outside MED whose input is essential for the timely
execution of various components. The Irrigation Department is expected to
assist MED in the initial investigation and preparation of preliminary
plans for the dasign of all civil works and in determining the total design
capacity of each irrigation pumping station. Similarly, EPADP is expected
to assist in determining the capacity of drainage pumping stations and in
resolving constraints within the drains, both upstream and downstream, such
as at the Harris Pumping Station (para. 3.09). Ministry of Industry
assistance would be required to resolve issues of industrial waste such as
at the El Tabya and El Max Pumping Stations (paras. 3.35-3.39). To
facilitate implementation, a Project Coordination Committee has been
established which was a condition of Board Presentation. The Committee
would be chaired by the First Undersecretary of State of MED and composed
of members from the Irrigation Department, EPADP, the Ministry of Industry,
&APPAWtU 20, 190



- 30 -
the two Central Directorates of MED (Upper and Lower Egypt) and the Project
Central Directorate in Cairo. The committee would meet quarterly to
address various issues of implementation and review the annual program.
4.02     The responsibility for the overall monitoring of project
implementation within MED would lie with the Undersecretary of State at the
Central Directorate for Projects. Day-to-day responsiblities would be with
the General Directorate for Studies and Specifications, which is
coordinating the implementation of the ongoing first project and was
responsible for the preparation of the proposed project. The Directorate
would prepare technical specifications and tender doctiments, evaluate bids,
handl.i disbursements, and submit the periodic progress reports, and mid-
term and completion reports. The Directorate is currently staffed with
only five electrical and mechanical engineers and somie support staff. With
the added responsibility of the proposed project, MED has strengthened the
Directorate by assigning six more experienced engineers and an appropriate
number of support staff, which was another condition of Board Presentation.
4.03     As pointed out earlier (para. 2.15), consultants recommended the
establishment of a Directorate of Inspection and the strengthening of the
civil works maintenance capability of the central and field Directorates.
MED has recently made proposals for reorganizing the Department, which
would require the approval of various Ministries. These proposals include
the establishment of Central Directorates for Technical Inspection and
Civil Works and thte strengthening of field directorates, with appropriate
staff for civil works.
4.04     Technical Inspection.  The proposed Central Directorate of
Technical Inspection would carry out the detailed periodic inspection of
each station and report directly to the First Undersecretary of State. The
findings and recommendations of these inspections, with the remedial
actions taken by the field directorates, would be detailed in an annual
report. The Directorate would also be responsible for calibrating various
pumping station instruments to measure flow output and the efficiency of
pumps and power consumption. Proposed staffing for the Directorate would
include an Undersecretary of State with two Director-Generals, one for
Upper and one for Lower Egypt, each with a staff of four senior mechanical
engineers, four senior electrical engineers, two senior civil engineers and
about the same number of mechanical, electrical and civil engineers. In
view of the urgency of establishing such a Directorate, MED has agreed to
pursue the establishment of the Directorate, independent of the overall MED
organization. It is estimated that about 12 to 18 months are required to
obtain the necessary approvals within the Government.   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a Directorate of Technical Inspection would
be in place by December 31, 1991, according to an agreed action plan. For
the immediate solution, and until the establishment of the Technical
Inspection Directorate, MED has assigned the task of technical inspection
to the Technical Office and Secretariat of MED, which reports directly to
the First Undersecretary. To enable the Technical Office to undertake this
task effectively, a core team of about ten professional engineers has also
been chosen.
&AWPMTAl 20. 19i0



- 31 -
4.05     Civil Works.  The proposed Central Directorate for Civil Works
would coordinate the design and execution of all new civil works with the
Irrigation Sector Design Directorate. The proposed Directorate would be
responsible for the maintenance of all civil works facilities. Proposed
staffing for the Directorate would be an Undersecretary of State with two
Director Generals, one for Upper Egypt and another for Lower Egypt, and a
staff of four professionals (civil engineers and architects) and two
technicians. Eacn of the seven Regional Directorates would Slave a staff of
one civil engineer and two technicians to handle maintenance activities.
Each Inspectorate would include a technician to prepare estimates for civil
works repairs and rehabilitation. The establishment of the proposed
Central Directorate would take 15 to 18 months. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Central Directorate for Civil Works, with
appropriate staff, would be in place according to an agreed action plan, by
December 31, 1991. MED has a number of positions, particularly for
professional staff, on its approved list that have not been filled. With
the approved positions, it should not be difficult for MED to either
recruit staff directly or obtain secondments from the Irrigation
Department. As an interim solution, M"ED has deputed two senior civil
engineers as Acting-Directors General to be supported by the core staff at
each of the two Central Directorates, in Upper and Lower Egypt. The
immediate task of core staff would be to visit all civil works facilities
under MED, including offices, stores, workshops, and staff housing, and
prepare a detailed master plan with cost estimates and an implementation
schedule for rehabilitation over the next 10 to 15 years. Such a master
plan would become the basis for restoration work to be undertaken under the
project.
4.06     Manaaement Information System (MIS).  The MIS unit has been
upgraded to a General Directorate level at the headquarters in Cairo and is
headed by a Director-General who reports to the Undersecretary of State for
projects; the staff is gradually being increased which would include a
systems manager, three systems analysts, five programmers and about six
data-input technicians. At each of two Central Directorates (Nag Hammadi
and Tanta). The HIS directorate staff would include a system manager, two
system analysts, two programmers and two data-input technicians. Each of
the seven Regional Directorates would have a staff of two programmers and
two data-input technicians. Each Inspectorate would include a data-input
technician. Each of 12 regional/inspectorate workshops and electrical
laboratories would include 2 technicians. The proposed organization is
shown in Chart No. 2. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
proposed organization for the MIS would be in place according to an agreed
action plan by December 31, 1991.
ESPAFWrpd 20. tS9D



- 32 -
B. Spervision Plan
4.07     Borrower Contribution.  Progress reports would be submitted at the
end of March and September of each year. These reports would focus on: (a)
the pl.ysical progress of equipment installation and civil works under
various contracts during the period and accumulative for each contract; (b)
the status of bid processing tor each tender and reasons for delays, if
any; (c) the status of various studies, particularly of the effluent at the
El Max and El Tabya Pumping Stations; (d) the annual work program and
budgerary requirements for counterpart funds, 0&M funds and foreign
exchange provisions for spare parts (March report only); (e) the status of
counterpart funds in relation to approved budget and annual work program;
(f) the status and any changes introduced in the Indicative Program to be
compared to the agreed bi-annual program for rehabilitation of stations and
procurement of spare parts; (g) the status of Bank disbursements, including
pending withdrawal applications and projected disbursements for the
following six months; (h) a summary of the issues raised by the previous
supervision mission and their resolution; and (i) the status of
miscellaneous issues, such as legal covenants, accounts and audits, staff
training and the disbursements of loan/grant proceeds of other co-
financiers.
4.08     Project Monitoring and Coordination would be the responsibility of
MED's Central Directorate of Projects. Review meetings, with the
participation of central and regional directorate staff, would normally be
held in May and November of each year. The meetings would be chaired by
the First Undersecreatry of State of MED or his representative. MED would
be responsible for coordinating arrangements for review missions by the
Bank and other co-financiers and for providing information required by
missions. Missions would normally be accompanied by the undersecretary of
state for projects and/or the director general studies and specifications.
The Bank would make efforts to supervise the project jointly with other co-
financiers.
4.09     On arrival, mission briefing meetings would be chaired by the
undersecretary of state of Projects and attended by two undersecretaries of
tha Central Directorates in the field, as well as other field staff.
Wrap-up meetings would be chaired by the First Undersecretary of MED. The
missions would also brief the first undersecretary of the Ministry of
International Cooperation (MOIC) and leave an aide memoire with MED and
MOIC. A tentative supervision plan is shown in Annex II, Table 7,
providing for 13 supervision missions including a mid-term review requiring
78 staff-weeks over the life of the project.
4.10     Mid-term Review and Completion Reports.  A mid-term review of all
project activities would be conducted jointly by MED and the Bank. To
facilitate such a review, MED would prepare a detailed report and submit it
to the Bank by June 30, 1994 for a joint review by September 1994. The
project completion report would be prepared by MED and submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the loan closing. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that MED would submit:
A uW.Wrf 2a I9wo



- 33 -
(a)   a detailed progress report for the mid-term review by June
30, 1994; and
(b)   the project completion report no later than six months after
the loan closing.
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. COST RECOVERY. AND RISKS
A. Economic Analysis
Proiect Benefits
5.01    Pumping stations for irrigation and drainage are vital for the
agricultural economy of Egypt to ensure the distribution of Nile water to
farming areas and disposal of drainage water to avoid excessive salinity.
Cropping patterns and yields are highly dependent on an adequate and
reliable supply of irrigation water and timely disposal of drainage water.
In the absence of adequately functioning facilities, agricultural
production, exports, and farm incomes would fall, and food imports would
rise sharply. Due to the fact that a large number of pumping stations in
Egypt are more than 20 years old and due to inadequate preventive
maintenance in the past, there are frequent breakdowns with consequent
interruptions in service.
5.02    The irrigation and drainage pumping stations under the project are
located throughout Egypt. However, the main benefits from the
rehabilitation program would be realized in the Delta, mainly through
improved drainage. Twenty six pumping stations, comprising 12 for drainage
and 14 for irrigation, have been identified in the project area covering
600,000 feddans (Firm Program). The gross and net value of agricultural
production in this area in economic terms is nearly LE 1.6 billion and
about LE 0.9 billion respectively (Annex III, Table 1). An additional 24
stations were also identified for possible rehabilitation (Indicative
Program); because these are tentative, they have been excluded from
economic analysis; however, since they possess similar features,it is
expected that the economic benefits would be comparable. Based on land
ownership and sharecropping patterns, with an average holding size of 1.5
feddans, approximately 560,000 families would benefit from the project.
5.03    Project benefits would accrue primarily from: (a) avoidance of
reduction in crop yields and farm incomes due to erihanced reliability of
these stations in delivering the needed volume of irrigation/drainage water
during critical periods; (b) reduced energy consumption resulting from
improved overall efficiency of pumping stations; and (c) savings in annual
maintenance costs following rehabilitation.
5.04    Avoidance of Production Loss. Crop yields are a function of the
timely delivery of irrigation water and disposal of drainage water;
delivery is, in turn, dependent on the reliability of pumping
APPJWPA W. 1090



- 34
units/stations (as measured by the ratio of water delivered to water
required in a certain period) particularly during periods of peak demand,
and the power supply network. Disruption in either of these facilities
would reduce crop yields and farm incomes. Any shortages in power supply
are expected to be the same with or without the project, and therefore
would not have any effect on incremental agricultural production of the
rehabilitation program, whereas the reliability of pumping stations
directly influences incremental production of the project. Available data
indicate that a 15% water deficit in a critical period would result in
yield declines of 8X-23% (FAO), and that inadequate drainage would reduce
crop yields by 12X-16% (field trials in Egypt).
5.05    The First Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
estimated that, without the project, the pumping stations would deliver an
average of 88% of water requirements during critical periods; this index
would fall after 10 years to 82X. With the project, the reliability index
would be almost 1001 during the first year following project
implementation, and would still be at a high level o' 98% after 10 years.
While the first project is still under implementation, the limited data
available supports the estimates.
5.06    For economic analysis, a more conservative assumption is used,
namely, that in the absence of the irrigation and drainage pumping stations
rehabilitation program, crop yields and the net value of agricultural
production would decline by 5% between 1991 and 2006 (Annex III, Table 2).
Implementation of the project is assumed to prevent this decline, starting
the first year following implementation. Benefits arising from avoidance
of loss of agricultural production are calculated as incremental changes in
net farm income in economic terms. When the full potential is achieved,
these benefits are estimated at about US$17.8 million (LE46.3 million)
dnnually. Benefits are calculated on the basis that productivity losses
occur progressively between 1991 and 2006.
5.07    Overall Efficiency. The overall efficiency of the pumping station,
as measured by the ratio of water output to energy input, is dependent on
the efficiencies of individual pump units, which, in turn, are a function
of the efficiencies of their components (pump, motor, gearbox, and
transformer). The First Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2270-
EGT) concluded that there is an average efficiency loss of about 1% for
every 5,000 hours of operation.
5.08    Applying the same assumptions, the average efficiency of the
pumping units over the 1997-2006 period under the proposed rehabilitation
program is estimated to be about 60% (Annex III, Table 3). In the without-
project situation, the average efficiency during the same period would be
about 40%. Based on the above, the average annual savings in energy
consumption over the project life under the rehabilitation program would be
of the magnitude of 25 million KWH annually (Annex III, Table 3). Using
the economic price of energy of US$.05/KWH (LEO.13/KWH) (against a
financial price of US$0.02/KWH, or LEO.05/KWH), average annual savings
would be about US$1 3 million (LE3.3 million) in constant 1991 prices.
APPWR"Ap m0. lw



- 35 -
5.09   Maintenance Cost. A-nual maintenance costs of pumping units vary
directly with pump age, hours of operation, and level of maintenance.
Savings attributed to the project are estimated to be on average about
US$1.3 million (LE3.3 million) annually during the period 1997-2006 (Annex
III, Table 4).
Economic Rate of Return
5.10    Economic Prices and Costs. Constant farm-gate prices and costs at
mid-1991 levels are used fcr economic analysis. For traded commodities
(including cotton and rice), farmgate border price eoulvalents were used,
and for forages and vegetables, financial prices were assumed to equal
economic prices (Annex III, Table 5). The net income per feddan was taken
for each crop using economic prices and costs (Annex III, Table 6).
5.11    Economic prices exclude taxes, duties, and subsidies whenever
identified. A conversion factor of 1.3 was used for civil works, since
items such as cement and steel are highly subsidized. The shadow wage rate
was assumed to be the same as the financial wage rate. The ERR takes into
account all incremental investments (including a share of investment costs
for workshops, offices and staff quarters, technical assistance, and
training under the project), savings in operation and maintenance costs of
the identified 26 pumping stations, and changes in net value of
agricultural production. The ERR for the base-case scenario is 24% (Annex
III, Table 7).
5.12    Other Benefits. The project is expected to generate additional
benefits which have not been considered in economic analysis since they are
difficult to quantify: (a) as a result of enhanced reliability of pumping
stations, farmers would have an incentive to reduce excessive water use,
which would free the water saved for increasing the area irrigated or
cropping intensity; and (b) institutional improvements would contribute to
overall improvement in the operations of MED.
5.13    Sensitivity Analysis. The project is sensitive to the avoidance of
losses of agricultural production. Therefore, the project was tested for 3%
yield (anid net production) loss; and results are indicated below. The
project remains viable if investment costs increase by 50% or benefits are
lagged by 2 years. The project is still acceptable if net losses are 3% and
investment costs increase by 50%. Switching value analysis indicates that
the ERR would not fall below '2% despite a 60% reduction in benefits or a
100% increase in costs.
9APPWRPT. 20, ISIS



- 36 -
ERR %
Base case (fixed program)            24
Yield loss of 3%                      18
Investment costs up 20%              21
Investment costs up 50'              18
Benefits lagged 2 years               19
Yield losses 3%, costs up 50%         12
5.14    Based on this analysis, it can be concluded that the project is
robust under any conceivable scenario, as expected, due to the critical
importance of irrigation and drainage water to Egyptian agriculture. The
main economic issues encountered in pumping station rehabilitation programs
relates, therefore, to the timing and degree of rehabilitation needed
(scrapping pump units vs. replacement of components). There were
difficulties in developing these criteria since there are many variables
like the quality of maintenance, the extent of usage and availability of
stand-by capacity, quality of water pumped and so on, which influence these
decisions. Although these parameters are difficult to quantify, the
mission has developed criteria to assist in assigning priorities for the
rehabilitation of pumping stations in Egypt (para. 3.02). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these criteria would be used to select
stations under the Indicative Program.
B. Cost Recovery
5.15    The Government has attempted to effect cost recovery for
irrigation and drainage services through a variety of taxes and levies on
landowners. These recoveries account for less than one-fifth of the amount
budgeted by the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources.  In addition,
there has been an implicit taxation on agriculture resulting from low
procurement prices for major crops. Socio-political considerations
involved in taxing small marginal farmers have also inhibited the
Government from adopting direct measures for recovery of water charges.
With the weakening of the financial circumstances of Egypt, cost recovery
has become a priority issue in Bank's sectoral dialogue with the
Government. The Bank Group, through its earlier operations (Fifth Drainage
Project, Ln 2562-EGT, and Channel Maintenance Project, Ln. 2732-EGT), has
persuaded the Government to enhance cost recovery. However, these actions
failed to take a system-wide view of the financial requirements involved in
the delivery of water through a network of barrages, canals, pumping
stations, etc. In order to develop an appropriate strategy for cost
recovery for the system as whole, with due regard to the beneficiaries'
capacity to pay, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive study. The
recently adopted measures to liberalize prices, production and delivery
quotas provide an appropriate environment to initiate such a study as a
basis to agree on a cost recovery program.
&kPPAr"AW 2. IO



- 37 -
5.16    Given the new production environment and prevailing and expected
fiscal constraints, it is important to identify and implement an improved
cost recovery system. In order to better understand the recurrent cost
requirements associated with providing irrigation/drainage and to assist in
identifying methods for introducing adequate cost recovery into the system,
the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources will assemble data on
budgets and undertake a study, suitably assisted by consultants, on O&M
requirements and alternative cost-collection methods, including ways to
increase the beneficiaries' ability to absorb more of the costs. As O&M
budgets are currently divorced from physical O&M requirements, the study
will first focus on optimum operational and maintenance programs. In
addition to staffing requirements, this would include electricity for pumps
and canal dredging and weeding. The terms of reference for such a study are
given in Annex IV. A phased plan for full O&M cost recovery would be worked
out. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would cause
MPW to complete such a study and submit it for review by the Bank by June
30, 1991, and not later than December 31, 1991, provide the Bank with a
phased action plan to implement the agreed recommendations of such study.
5.17    As part of cost recovery and cost reduction efforts, the
Government has a policy to transfer booster pump ownership and O&M
responsibility to farmers and/or farmer groups. MED operates about 511
booster stations, smaller pumping stations with a capacity of less than one
cms, and wells in the recently reclaimed agricultural land. A shift of
operation responsibility would reduce MED's annual budget outlay by about
20%. However, this policy has not been fully implemented due to: (i) the
unavailability of imported spare parts because of the tight foreign
exchange position of the country; (ii) the low level of maintenance skills
available in rural areas; and (iii) the large number of farmers served by
each pumping station. Given that certain financial, management and
administrative structures and training programs must be put in place prior
to transferring this responsibility, agreement was reached during
negotiations that in accordance with current Government policy, a realistic
timetable and phased plan for such a transfer would be prepared by MED,
which would address all related issues, including those mentioned above.
The phased plan would be submitted for the Bank's review by December 31,
1991.
C. Project Risks
5.18    A major risk is that the stations will not be properly operated
and maintained after rehabilitation and, therefore, will quickly
deteriorate. A study was conducted under the ongoing project by external
consultants for assessing O&M procedures and making recommendations for
their improvement (para 2.15). These have begun to be implemented. In the
short term, MED has assigned the work of technical inspection to the
Directorate General of Technical Office and Secretariat and appointed two
acting General Directors for Civil Worls. In the long term, arrangements
have been agreed with the Government at negotiations on setting up two
Central Directorates for Technical Inspection and Civil Works respectively.
SAPPWrAa 2 1o



- 38 -
Progress has been made under the ongoing project in installing a
computerized MIS to assist in O&M and stores management. The second
project will support these improvements through technical assistance and
training. These steps should help minimize the existing deficiencies in
operation and maintenance of the pumping stations.
5.19    Project execution could be affected due to the inadequacy of local
funds. However, since the GOE considers this project to be important to
the agricultural sector, lack of funds is not expected to be a major
problem. It is also proposed to have a system of making annual work plans
and estimating the funds requirements for carrying out the plans. The Bank
will review these plans at the formulation and implementation stages and
the review process of budgeting is expected to avoid this problem.
5.20    There is a possibility that project implementation could be
delayed. However, this is not considered likely since this is a repeat
project and MED, the executing agency, has had considerable experience with
procurement under the Bank's guidelines. The strengthening of the General
Directorate of Studies and Specifications, which is the coordinating unit
in MED, and establishment of a Project Coordination Committee is expected
to result in minimizing delays in project implementation.
VI. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The following assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations:
(a)   MED would prepare a detailed work program every two years
(1992, 1994, and 1996) specifying stations expected to be
rehabilitated with estimated cost, procurement and
implementation schedules for the Bank's review and agreement
before proceeding with procurement (para. 3.07);
(b)   MED would submit for Bank review by March 31 of each year an
annual report giving details of the previous year's
achievements and constraints, as well as budget provisions
for the subsequent year and the program would incorporate
Bank comments on budgets for both O&M and local counterpart
funds (para. 3.07);
(c)   MPW would: (i) undertake studies and engage consultants
according to the agreed terms of reference; (ii) seek the
Bank's review and agreement for changes in the terms of
reference introduced by other co-financiers; and (iii)
submit consultant's terms and conditions of employment for
review and approval of the Bank and/or other co-financiers
(para. 3.16);
(d)   For equipment to be procured under turnkey contracts using
ICB procedures, general contract conditions would specify
tAPPWTA. SO 19W



- 39 -
that the principal contractor would be responsible for
supply of machinery and equipment, its instal.ation,
execution of related civil works and commissioning of the
facilities upon completion (para. 3.24);
(e)   For civil works to be executed using LCB procedures, the
Government would allow participation by all foreign
contractors and all bidders would be treated equally in
terms of eligibility or in furnishing bid or performance
bonds (para. 3.26); and
(f)   (i) All project-related contracts and documents would be
kept for at least one year after the Bank received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the loan account was made; (ii) the accounts would be
audited by CAO or an independent auditor aceceptable to the
Bank; (iii) the audit would include an examination of all
statements of expenditure submitted to the Bank for
reimbursement; and (iv) the audited accounts, together with
the auditor's reports, both in English, would be furnished
to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 3.31).
6.02     Agreements were reached at negotiations to the effect that:
(a)   MED would award the contract for implementation of the El
Owania Pumping Station of Upper Egypt as soon as the project
is effective and complete the installation and operators
housing by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.33);
(b) MPW would (i) monitor the quality of flow at fortnightly
intervals starting in May 1990 until two years after
commissioning of the West Treatment Plant for the City of
Alexandria; (ii) carry out a detailed study of the best ways
to treat the effluent discharges into Lake Maryut, including
studying appropriate alternatives; and (iii) ensure that the
Government has made firm arrangements, includi-.g financing
for works and/or actions recommended under (ii) above (para.
3.35);
(c)   MPN would: (i) monitor the quality of the flow starting in
March 1991 for at least one year at regular fortnightly
intervals at various discharge points along the Abu-Keir
drain, particularly at the El Tabya Pumping Station, and at
effluent discharge points from the Rakta and National Paper
Mills; (ii) carry out a detailed study with various
alternatives for primary clarification at both paper mills
and/or at the Tabya Pumping Station, es well as at other
major industries which contribute to pollution, with an
estimated cost and implementation schedule; and (iii) ensure
that ths Government has made firm arrangements, including
tAPPWTr:aU 20, IMe



- 40 -
financing, for primary clarifiation works and other actions
recommended under (ii) above (para. 3.39);
(d)   The Government would cause NPW to establish, according to an
agreed action plan, by December 31, 1991:
(i)   a Central Directorate for Technical Inspection (para. 4.04);
(ii) a Central Directorate for Civil Works (para. 4.05);
and
(iii) a proposed MIS organization with appropriate staff
(4.06).
(e)   MED would submit for Bank review:
(i)   a detailed progress report for the mid-term review by
June 30, 1994; and
(ii) a project completion report not later than six months
after the loan closing (para. 4.10).
(f)   MED would use criteria developed by Bank m-ssion in
selecting pumping stations for rehabilitat on under the
Indicative Program (paras. 3.02 and 5.14'
(g)   The Government would cause MPW to prepare a study for full
0&M cost recovery of all irrigation and drainage facilities
and submit it for review by the Bank by June 30, 1991, and
provide the Bank with a phased action plan to implement the
agreed recommendations of such study not later than December
31, 1991 (para. 5.16); and
(h)   The Government would cause MED to prepare by December 31,
1991, for Bank review, a timetable and phased plan for
continued transfer of booster pumps, wells and some of the
smaller irrigation lift stetions with a capacity of less
than one cms (para. 5.17).
6.03     The following conditions of Board Presentation were fulfilled:
(a)   MPW established a Project Coordination Committee (para.
4.01); and
(b)   MED assigned six more experienced engineers and appropriate
number of support staff to the General Directorate for
Studies and Specifications (para. 4.02).
AWPU 20. 109w



- 41 -
6.04    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$31.0 million for a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would be
the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
VAPWMpTwAP 2, 11 



- 42 -                                                  A-NNEX 1
Table1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PIINPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PMJECT 11
SUNNART ACCOUNTS COST SWumAmv
ILE '0001                                         fuss 1000)
I Iota)                                          I Total
I foreign  Base.                                 I Foreign  Sass
Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
I. INVESIRNET COSTS
A. ELECTRO-NECHANICAL EQUIPNENT
FIUN PROGRAM                                    9.896.4  33,253.3  43. 149.7          7 7     433   3.806.3 12.789 7 16.596.0          1?       43
INDICATIVE PORMAN                               4.914 0  16. 486. 0  21. 400. 0       77      22   1.890.0  6, 340. 8  8, 230. 8       7?       22
Sub-total ELECTRO-NECONANICAL EQIJIPNENT          14.810. 4  40,739.3  64.549.?          77       65   S.,696. 3 19,130.5 24.826,8         7?      65
S. CIVIL UMOS
NEW/EXTENSION OF P. STATIONS                    1,0056. 0   2, 137. 0   7. 783.       27        8   2. 175.4    821.9  2.991.3         2?        8
REPAIRS A REHIAB OF EXISTING STATIONS             761.3      212.3     973.?          22        1     292.8      81.7    374.1         22        I
STAFF HOUSING NEW                               3,256.0      814. 0   4,070.0         20        4   1,252.3    313. 1  1.585. 4        20        4
SIAFF HOUSING REPAIRS A REHAB                     162.4      190.6      953.0         20        1     293.2      73.3    366. 2        20        1
OFFICES. MORKSHOPS 8 STORES HEM                   634.4      158.6      793.0         20        1     244.0      61.0    301.0         20        I
REHAB 8 REPAIRS EXISTING FACILITIES             1,840.0      460.0   2.300.0          20       2      70?.?    176.9    884.6          20        2
.U.--    - -  - - - - -   4 - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - -  - -    - -- -    - - - -    - - -
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                             12.910. 2   3,972.5  16.882.?7         24       17   4,965. 5  1.52?. 9  6,493. 4       24       17
C. NORSHOPS A RISC. EGUIPHENT
MOUJKSHOP B ELECTRICAL LARORATORIES             1,380.0   3,620.0   5.000.0           12       5      530.8  1.392.3  1.923.1          72        5
VEHICLES 8 RISC. EGIUIPHENT                     1,987. 3   4.38?.8   6.3?5.0          69        6     764.3  1.6587, 6  2. 451. 9      69        6
CONPWTER.. A TELECOIOWNICATION                    400.0   1. 600.0   2, 000.0         80       2      153.8    611.4    769.2          s0        2
Stib-Total WORKSHNOPS 8 RISC. EQUIPHENT            3.76?. 3   9, 607.8  13. 375. 0       12       13   1, 448. 9  3.695. 3  5. 144.2       72      13
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE A TRAINING
HIS                                               18.0       918. 0   l.500.0         61l       2     223.8    313.1    576.9          61        2
OTHER STUDIES                                     5111.5     733.5   1,241. 0         59        I     t96.7    282.1    478.6          529
TRAINING                                          363.0   1.287. 0   1. 650.0         18       2      139. 6    491.0    634. 6        To        2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE A TRAINING          1,416.1   2.938. 5   4,391.0          67        4     560. 2  1, 130.2  1.690. 4        67       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  32,944.3  66. 258. I 99,202.4          67      100  12. 670. 9 25. 483.92 36. 154.68     67      100
Phytsical Contirgencues                             3. 108.3   3,954.0   7,062. 3         56        7   1. 195. 5  1.120. A  2.7116.3       16       7
Price Contingencies                                21,735.9  41. 17?.)1  82,913.0         65       63   2.843.3  5, 367. 7  8,21 1.0        61      22
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   17,1768. 5 111,389.2 169.1??.?         66      171  16. 709. ? 32.372 4 49.082.1         66      129
-$=.Z:s        .. SSS:S  safltSSSz ::S:5n   5::::    -=5-   S .. C                 z-z  Z55   ....::
-------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------



- 43 -                                                ARIEX 1
Table 2
ARAB REPUBtIC OF EGYPT
PUHPIlG STATIONS REHABItITAtIOi PROJECT It
Project Comonents by Tear
ILE '0001
Base Costs                                 total
91/92   92893    93/94    94/9S    95/96    96/91          LE      IUSS *000I
S::S5:  .S:z:....  :.z*a3x: :Sh2 ...8s =uSft  :..:s..   :t-sz:.:    XSS... Stds
A. REHA8BIITATION OF PUNPING STATIONS
NEWLY REPLACED STATIONS                               379.0  3.8t1.8  5.481.8  4.334.0  2,373.0    60.0   16.439.6    6,322.9
EXTENSION A REPtACEMENT OF EQUIPNENT
IN EXISTING STATIONS                              674.0  3.500.2  4,237.6  3,638.1  1.760.8    14.0   13.824.6    5.31t.2
NEU LAND BASED STATIONS
REPLACING ftOATING STATIONS                       672.8  2.807.2  1.273.2       16.0      32.0        -    4.861.2    1. 89.?
REPUACENENT OF EQUIPNENT IN
THE EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS                   1.043.0  3,941.2  4.129.9  3.782.5  3. 140Q5 2.299.0   18,336.1    7.052.3
REHABILITATION OF REMAINING
STATIONS IINDICATIVE PROGRAM)                     740.0  3.163.0  5.598.0  6.401.0  4,271.0 1.266.0   21.438.0    8. 245.4
Sub-Total REHABILITATION OF PUMPING STATIONS           3.508.8 17.223.4 20.720.4 18.231.6 11.577.3 3,638.0   74.899.4   28,807.5
S. WORKSHOPS. LABORATORIES A
MISC. EQUIPMENT
WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT                                        -    760.0  1.960.0    480.0           -       -    3.200.0    1.230.8
E LABORATORIES                                            -         -    600.0  1,200.0          -       -    1.800.0        692.3
VEHICLES AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT                         465.0  2. 155.0    715.0  1,890.0           -       -    5.225,0    2,009.6
COMPUTERS AND TEtECOMMUNICATION                                     -  1.000.0  1,000.0              -        2.000.0        169.2
MISCEttANEOUS EQUIPMENT                                   -    440.0  1,010.0    900.0           -       -    2,350.0        903.8
Sub-Total WORKSHOPS. LABORATORIES 8
NISC. EQUIPMENT                                      465.0    355.0  5,285.0  S,470.0            -       -   14. S75. 0    S, 605.8
C. BUltDING FACILITIES
STAFF HOUSING                                             -    708.0  1.276.0  1,539.0  1.270.0   540.0    5. 333.0    2,051. 2
Sub-Total BUILDING FACILITIES                                     708.0  1.276.0  1,539.0  1.270.0   540.0    5.333.0    2.051.2
-..uINICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
MANAGEMENT INFORMTION SERVICE                        200.0    630.0    490.0        80.0     60.0    40.0   1IS00.0          578.9
OAM REQUIREMENT STRENGTHENING MED
AND PRIVITIZATION OF REPAIR SERVICES                   -    660.0    190.0          -        -        -      850.0       326.9
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND SERVICE                  65.0    314.0        8.0       8.0        -                395.0       I51.9
TRAINING                                             200.0    630.0    535.0    215.0        40.0    30.0    1,650.0         634.6
Sub-Total TECHIINICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING           465.0  2.234.0  1.223.0    303.0    100.0    70.0    4,395.0    1,690.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     4.438.8 23,520.4 28.504.4 25.543.6 12,947.3 4,248.0   99,202.4   34. 154.8
Physical Contingencies                                 266.4  1. 625. 8  2,225.2  1.737.0    952.7   255.3    7,062. 3    2.716.3
Price Contingencies                                   1 111.5 10. 104.6 17,062.9 18,946.2 11.415t4 4,272.5   62,913.0    8,211.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      S. 816.7 35,250.8 47,1792.5 46,226.7 25,315.3 8,775.7  169. 177.7   49,082.1
:=::::. fle:.:.   e:$..Xs : ... ttSSt ..=SS.. l Sfx..tt  :stfl=   SS:f: flSltt
Taxes                                                  803. 1 4.438.6  S,952.4  S. 885.7  2,701.3 1, 000.6   20. 781.8    6,042.5
foreign Exchange                                     4.269.9 24.037.4 31.464.2 30. 229.5 15.727.2 6.661.0  111.389.2   32,372.4
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  I------------------------------------------------------------------_ ._ .....



ARAB REPUtBIC Of EGYPT
PUPPING srTAIONs  REHA8ILITATI   PROJECT If
Suwry Accounts by Yeai
Totals Including Contingencies                                     lotals Including Contingencies
(LE  0001                                                        (USS I000
91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97   Total           91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96   96/9?   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EtECTRO-CIWIANICAL EQtI1PIIENT
FIRII PROGRAI                                  3.538.5 Ia 173.1 19. 165.4 15,834.4 tO, 761. 9 4,326.7  71.800.0  1. 183 t 5.621.   5. 605. 1  4,458.6 2,940.3 1.145.6 20.953.8
INOICATIVE PROGRAM                               965.3  4.865.8  9.915.5 11,223.5  t.486.3 2.259.6  36,735.9    329.4  1.55.0  2.899.9  3.160 3 2,045.3   598.3 10,538.2
Su -lotal ELECTRO-NECHttANICAt  EQUIPMENT         4,523.8 23.038.8 29. 081.0 27. 057.9 18.248. 2 6.586. 3 108;535.9  1.512. 6  7. 126.   O.505.   7 ;;618.9 4,985.6 1;743.9 31.4 92. '
B. CIVIL HORtS
NEW/EXTENSION OF P. STATIONS                      21.8  2.383. 5  5. 143. t  4,436.8  2.401. 9       -  14. 387. 1      7.3    737.2  1.504.2  1.249 3   656.2           -  4. 154.2
REPAIRS 8 REHAB OF EXISTING SIATIONIS             28.4    221.8    356.0    452.5    565. 1   257.7   1,881.6           9.5     68.6    104. 1    127.4   154.4    68.2    532.3
SIAFF HOUSING NEtt                                    -  1, 144.6  1,851. 1 2,533.3  1,885.0   280. I   7.694.2                354.0    54t.4    713.3   515.0    74.2  2,197.9
SIAIl HOUSING REPAIRS S RFEtAD                    35.5    120 9    307.6    582.7    527.8   291.3   1,865.9           11 9     37.4      90.0    164.1   144 2    77. 1    524.7
OIlt.I%  uORKMIopS  SIORIS ttEtt                      -    141 9    601.0    514 4    219.9          -   1 477.2          -     43.9    175.8    144.9    60. 1         -    424.6
RlH4At S VIPAIRS  X11SIllCG IACIIITIES                -    322 4    679.6  1t120 5  1,267. 1 1,210.2   4,599.9            -     99.7    Il8.8    315.5   346.2   320.4  1,280.6
S5  total ClIlt WORKS                                 65.7  4,335.2  8,938.6  9,640.2  6,866.8 2,039.4  31. 905. 8        28.;7  1340.9  2;614.1  2,714.5 1.876 1   540.0  9, 114.3
C. MORKSHOPS 8 MISC. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                                                       I
IORKSHOP A EtECTRICAL LABORATORIES                    -  1. 130. 6  4,375. 7  3. 151.8               - -   .658. 1        -    349. 7  1,279.7    887.5         -        - 2,516.9
VEHICLES A NISC. EQUIPNENT                       574.9  3,3t. 3  1, 749.7  4, 117. 6         -       -   9,743.5    192.2  1, 021. 1    511.7  1, 159.4         -       -  2,84.5
COMPIIPERS a IELECO1IUNICAIDIN                        -         -  1,555.3  1,694.5          -       -   3,249.8          -         -    454.8    477. 1        -       -    932.0
Sub-Total tORKSHOPS S RISC. EOUIPMENT               574.9  4,431.9  7, 680.6  8,963.9           -        -  21. 651.3    192.2  1,370.8  2,246.3  2.524.0          -        -  6.333.3
D. TECHNICAL ASSIS.iANCE 8 TRAINING
HIS                                              272.0    971.5    838.3    149. 1    120.2    85.7   2,436.8          90.9    300.5    245.2       42.0    32.8    22.7    734. 1
OTHER STUDIES                                     88.4  1,501.9    338.7        14.9         -       -   t,944.0       29.6    464.6      99. 1      4.2        -       -    597.4
TRtAINING                                        272.0    971.5    915. 3    400.7       80.1    64.3   2,703.9       90.9    300.5    267.7        t2. 8    21.9    17.0      10. 9
Sib-Total TIECHNICAL ASSISTANCE S TRAINING           632.3  3,444.9  2.092.3    564 8    200. 3   150. I   7,084.7    211.4  1,065.5    611.9    159.0    54. 7    39.7  2.142 4
lotas  INVESIMENI COSTS                              S. 816. 7 35,250.8 47, 792.5 46. 226. 7 25, 315. 3 8. 775. 7 169, 17;. 7  1,944. 9 10, 903. 4 13. 977. 3 13,016.5 6,916.4 2. 32Z. 6 49. 082. I
T==:=:t =P=O=E COT  , 2 = 4  ==:::::2 2====:43   87.7=::  ==69.          ======= :0,3.4  ====1=97  3===6  =6  .4 2,33.  490 2=.=
Total PROJECT COSIS                                    5.816. 7 35,250.8 47, 792.5 46,226.7 25,3tS. 3 8,775. 7 t69, 171.7  1,944.9 10,903. 4 13.977. 3 13,0t6.5 6,916. 4 2,323.6 49,082. t
::::::= :=--S: ====::=: ==:===:: ::=::::_ ::::::  :::::    ==:::= :::::::: :::::-=z=::::::== :===:S: :::===: :=::::=_



ARAB REPUBLIC Of EGYPI
PUNPING SlOTIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT 11
Sury  Accounts by fear
Totals Including Contingencies                                    Totals Including Contingencies
I(LE  0001                                                        USS I050
91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97   Total           91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96   96/97   Total
1. INVESltENI COSTS
A. EiECIRO-NECKANICAL EQUIPMENT
F IR  PROGRAM                                  3. 538. 5 18. 173. 1 19, 165.4 15, 834.4 10, 761. 9 4,326.7  71.BO0.0  1.183 I 5S621.1  5. 605. 1 4. 45. 6 2.940. 3 1. 145 6 20,953.8
ItDICAlIVE PRORAM                                985.3  4.865.8  9,915.5 11,223.5  7.486. 3 2.259. 6  36.735.9    329.4  1 505. 0  2.899.9  3 160.3 2. 045. 3   598.3 10, 538 2
S,h-TotaI EIECTRO-NECHANICAt EOUIPMENT            4,523.8 23.038. 8 29. 081. 0 27, 057.9 18.248.2 6,586.3 108,535.9  1, 512. 6  7. 126. 1 8.5O5.0  7,618 9 4,985.6 1.743 9 31. 492. 1
S. CIVIL WORKS
NEW/EXTENSION Of P. STATIONS                      21.8  2,383.5  S. 143. 1 4.436. 8  2,401.9         -  14. 387. 1      7. 3    737.2  1,504.2  1,249 3   656 2          - 4. 154.2
REPAIRS 8 REHAB OF EAISIING STA1IONS              28.4    221.8    356.0    452.5    565.1   257 7   1,881.6           9 5      68.6    104.1    127.4   154.4    68.2    532.3                    I
StAff HIOUISING KEN                                   -  1, 144 S  1,851.1  2,533.3  1,88S.0   280. 1   7.694.2           -    354.0    541.4    713.3   515.0    74.2  2.197.9
SIAII HOtUSING REPAIRS a RENtAt                   35 5    120 9    307.6    582.7    527.8   291 3   1.865 9           tl 9     37.4      90.0    164. 1   144 2    77 1    524.7
OiflCtS. WORK.SHOPS S STORES NEW                      -    14t.9    601.0    514.4    219.9          -   1.477.2          -     43.9    175.8    144.9    60.1          -    424.6                VI
RtMt188 IttIPAINS IXIStING IACIIItIES                      322 4    679.6  1. 120.5  1, 267.1 1.210.2   4.599 9           -     99.7    198.8    315.5   346 2   320 4  1. 280.86
.....     .......   ........     .. ... ...     . ... ... .    .. .....     .... ....  -- - -   -- -- -   -- --  -     -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Sub-Iotal LIVlt WORKS                                 85.7  4.335 2  8,938.6  9,640.2  6.866.8 2,039.4  31.905 8          28.7  1.340.9  2.614. 1 2.714 5 1.876. 1  540.0  9.114.3
C. WORiSHOPS 8 M1SC. EGUIPttEil
WORKSHOP S ELECIRICAt LABORATORIES                    -  1. 130 6  4,375.7  3.151.8          -       -   8,658. 1              349.7  1,279.7    887.5          -       -  2.516.9
VEHICLES   R ISC. EQUIPMENT                      574.9  3,301.3  1,749.7  4.117.6            -       -   9,743 5    192.2  1,021. 1    Sll.7  1,159. 4          -       -  2.84.5
COlPUTERS S VEtECOMMZINICATION                        -        -  1.555.3  1.694.5           -       -   3,249.8          -              454.8    477. 1        -       -    932.0
Ss*-lotal WORKSHOPS 8 MISC. EQUIPMENT               574.9  4,431 9  7.680.6  6,963.9            -       -  21.651.3    192.2  1,370.8  2,246.3  2.524.0            -6,33.3
0. TEtNNICAiL  ASSISFANCE S TRAINING
HIS                                              272.0    971.5    838.3    149. 1    120.2    85.7   2.436 8         90.9    300.5    245.2        42.0    32 8    22.7    734.1
OtHER STUOIES                                     88.4  1,501. 9    338.7       14.9         -       -   1.944.0       29.6    464.6      99. 1      4 2        -        -    597. 4
TRAINING                                         272.0    971. 5    915.3    400.7       80. 1    64.3   2 703. 9     90.9    300.5    267.7    112. 8    21.9    17 0    810.9
S&-lot.l lECtIlICAI ASSISTANCE 8 TRAINING            632.3  3,444.9  2.092.3    564.8    200.3   150.1   7,084.7    211 4  1,065.5    611.9    IS9.0    54.7    39.7  2, 42.4
Total INVESTIENT COSIS                                S. 816. 7 35,250.8 47, 792.5 46,226.7 25, 315. 3 8,775. 7 169, 177. 7  1, 944. 9 10, 903. 4 13. 977. 3 13. 016.5 6. 916. 4 2,323.6 49.082. I
lotal PROMECT COSTS                                    5,816.7 35,250.8 47. 792.5 46,226.7 25, 315. 3 8.775.?7 169. 177 7  1,944.9 10,=903. 4 13,977.3 13. 016.5 6. 916. 4 2,323. 6 49.-02. 1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  



8966B REPUBlIC Of EGIPI
PtiNPIIIG SIbTIONIS REN1661111ATIONl PROJECT 1I
66RE62011 Of SUNNAAY ACCOUNTS
(USS Iwo)
ease tosti                        Ph~ysical Co.itieigeficles                 Price Co*ntingpmiis
..... .... .... ..... .... .... .... ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- --  . .... ..... . -- ---- ---ota--  otal   )   Cc Can
Local                                    local                                     to"I                        -- - - --- - - - -- - -- - - -            --- -
(Eadt,  Outies A                          (Etie. Out Iss 6                         tEdc    Dutites 8                        Local hEad. Oumitus A
for  exch. taxesi   Tages    Total    for. tech  toee.,   Taxe    total    for  Exch  taxes)   Taxes   Total    for  tEch                  Taxes)      Taxes    lots)
I . lUViSTlIET Cos
A. tItCTIO-ifc                 ENT
firm 78065                                          12.789 7 1.498 7  2.307 8 16.596 0           716.6  110. 2      124 5   951 3       2.638.6   301 7    466 2 3. 406. 5      II. 145 0       1. 910 6  2.898 3 20.953. 8
INDICATIVE                                          6.340.0   684 2  1.205 6  6. 230.8           336.2   37. 3      63. 9   437.3       1. 440. 9   158.3    210 9 1,8$70. 2     8, II? 9         179.6  I . 540. 5 30. 538 2
Sthioltal EIEI                  IOUIPIIEMI             19, 130 5 2. 182 9  3.513 3 24.8626.0       1. 052.8  14?. 4    188 4 i. 368 6      4. 079.5   460 9    737 I 5.276 7    24. 262 8          2,790 4  4. 436.9 3). 492.1I
8. CIVIL MOReS
INEW/ExTt(S1                OIlS                       821 9 1. 976.0     1994  2.997.3           123 3  296 4       29 9   449 6         190 0   471 8       45 4   707.3        1.135 2       2. 744.3    274 7  4.154.2
REPAIRS a6                  MG STATIONS                 II 7   242.2       50.7    374 5           t2.3   36 3        7.6    56 2          2189    65 9       13 9    101.6         115?7         3444.      722    532 3
StAff 110115                                           313 1 i.t961        56Ss3  1.565 4         47.0  179.4         6.4   2348I          795S   303.0       16 2   307.7         43986        1.676 4      7902  2.197.9
Stlhl 1)0115                11168                       73.3   261 8       25 4     36655          11.0   40.2        36     5 5.0         20 6    75 7        68a   103 1          1Q4 9         383.7      381      5 24.7
OIfICES. Mt                 Is NEW                      61.0   244 0           -    305 0           9.2   36.6          -    45 6          14 6    59.1 I              73 8          84.9         339.7               424.6
6211668 a 11                fACItltiLs                 176 9   701 1          .    604 6          26 5  106 2           - 132 1            52 7   210 7           - 263 3          256 )        I .024.5         -1.260.6
Seh-lotal CII                                           1.527.9 4.633 7    331 7  6.493. 4           229.2  695.1       49.8S  974 0         379 4 I. 186  I     81. 4 1.646 9      2. 136 5       S. 514. 9    462 6  9, 114. 3
C. liU.S11OPS                  W
NO'RV.S-IO S_'p a06210911                            1, 392. 3   242 3    288 S  1.923. 1         125.68  31 2      27.7   164 6          294 7    53 I       61 4   409 2        1.8$12 8        326. 6    377.5  2.516 9  J1'-
WENIICIES8 &t                                        1.667 6   273 9    490 4  2451 9                         .                  -        305 6    40 4       86 5   432 6       399232           3)4 4    576 9  2.0645   0'C
CUPIIlISK .                 Mail                       615.4        -    15368    169.2               -       .                           130. 2              32 6    162 8        7456I               -    18664    932.'0
Suii-Total tNOR,               EOUIPUNI                3.1,95.3   516 3    932 7  5. 144 2          I2W.    33 2       27.7   184 6         730 5    93 5    180 4 1. 004 5         4, 551. 6       640 9  1. 1406a  6. 333. 3
0. IIEIIUICAI                  15151MB
"ils                                                   353 I   223.6                576 9          35.3   22 4               57 7          54 4    4531           -    99 5        442 8          291 3          -    734 1
011119 51111                                           28. I   196 7                476 6         26 2   Is 7                47 9          41 I    20 5                70 7        351 S          245.9               59l 4
TRAINING                                               495.0   339 6                634 6         49.5   14.0                635           62 6    301            -   1126I        627.1          183.7          -    8199
Sub-Total It,                 -Ct 8 15815116            1. 130.2   580 2             1.690 4         113 0   58 0               3 69 0       378 2   104 7               282 9       t. 421 4        720 9             2.142. 4
total IMWfStllEll                           25,483~~~~~... .9 7.. 9  .....8----4----20    929-------7-        265-62.7---3--.38 -------4..4..998 96...... .211.          32,372.4-----  ---------  ---.0425 49---2 -
TotalINENN                                                 25,463.9 7.893  I 4.777  6 38. 154 6        1.520 8  929 7    265 8 2.716 3         5.367 7 1.844 4    998 9  6,211.0    32.372.4          10.667  I  8.042 5 49,082  I



ARAB REPUtLIC Of EGEPI
PtttlPlt  STATIONS  EKtU81tIATIOII PROJECI  11
8UEANBOIII 0f SIIUIAR  ACCOUNTS
ILL 1000)
Physical Continrencies                                                                   Physical
Bise Coastl,                        *                                 ...               Price Contirnencies                    Cant. Plus   Base Costs
----   -------- ---------------                      tocal            -- -------               --------- ---------------------   Pice Coant   Prsce Cant.
Local (Escl. Outies 8                             lEcIl.  Outies a                           local l Ea. Outlas a                   on Physical    on Base
For. Exch.    laxes)         Taves     Total    For. Esch. Taxes)  lTes    Total    For. Exch.               Taxesl       laxes      Total          Cant.           Costs
5t=a=:=   =::S^::: sun::::S cnhaa::  .n:S:::;:: :s:n: -: :S:-:::::: :                  ::::: u::::::::: :n:::n::: n::::::S::   ::::::::s::n
1. INESTUEST COSTS
it ELECTRO-NECNANICAL ElIlPltEuT
F I R  P9ORx                                         31.25S. 3        3, 6g6. 7  S. 999.7 431 49. 7      1. 863. 2   286. 5    323.? 2.473. 4    20,259.1          2. 330. t  3.5s7.8 26. 177 0           t. 127.5       19.826.4
DICBIAIIvE PROGRA4                                    8. 486. 0       t. 7?9. 0  3. 135. 0 21. 400.0       87t4.     96. 9     l66. I 1. 137. 0    10t939.1        1. 199. 4  2.060.4 14. 19. 9             529. 3       10. Og. 
-- - - -   - - - - --   - - --    - - - -   . .  . ..      . . .    ... ...                                        ... .  - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - --- -- . .  ... . .
Sub-Total EtECIRO-NECIANIC*L EOttlPIIENT                 49.,39.3        1,675.7  9.134.t 64.S49.7          2.737.3   383.3       489 8 3.610 4    31. 198.2           3,529.4  5, 648.2 40.375.9             1,656.8       29.835 3
B. CIVlt NOUNS
NEt/EXttENSIO  Of P  STaTIONS                          2. 137. 0      5. 137.6    518 4  7.793. 1          320.6   770 6        77.8  . 169 0       1. 461.7      3. 612.     350.5  5.425 I               5419           13.612 4
RfP61RS 8 REHlA  OF EXISIII 54 StATIONS                  212.3          629.6      131.7    973.?           31.9      94.4       19.8   146 I          164. t         493.8      104. t    761.9             69 4            462 9      1
Sltff HOUSING MEN                                        814 0        3,109.8      146.3  4,010.0          122.t   466.5        21 9   610.1          602.7        2,296.6       114.3  3.013.              3 2867         I 9g1 2
SlAf  nOuSIPG RIPAIRS 6 REHA8                           IO 6           696 3       66 2    953.0           28.6    104.4        9.9    143 0          154.0          565.0      S1.0      189 9              I. A           4%b 2       .
OIfittS. WOBs!.iOPS a StORES tNE                         158 6          634.4          *    193.0           23.8    95 2                 I19 0         113.0          452.2                565. 2             b, *            t. 2 3
REHA86 A RiPAIRS EXIStItG (ACiLItiliS                    460 0        1.840 0           -  2.300 0          69 0   276.0            -   345 0          391 0        1,563.9          -  1,954.9              it7 0         I 113 6
*. . . .    ..... .... .     ... . .   ... .. .  .... . . .     .......    ..... ..     .......  - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -  - -  - --     .   ........         ... ...
St.-Total CIVIL NOUNS                                     3.972 5       12,047.1    862 5 16.882.7             595.9 1.80t.2       129.4 2.532 4        2,8t86.5       8.964 3    619.9 12.490.7              1.188 8         7a925.4
C. mNOuNIops a misc. IOUIPIILIT
. ... ... ............ .   4    -
NOUNSOP A ELECTRICAL txBOATORIES                       3,620.0          630. 0    750 0  5,000.0           327.0      81. 0     72 0   460.0        2. 288.7          412.7    476.7  3. 178. 1              221.4         2.295 5
VENICLES 8 NISC. ECtIPltElT                            4.387.8          112 3  1.275.0  6.735.0                 -         -         -         -     2,372 0           322.8    673.7  3368 5                      -        2.884 5
CtIPUTEBS 8 TELECOIIIICATION                           1, 600.0          -0.0      400 0  2000.0                     -         -                      99 8                 -    250.0  1.249. 8                              932.0
O..,-ToEal WORKSHIOPS A RISC, E tIPNENtI                  9 601.8        1 342.3  2.425.0 13.375.0             327.0     8. 0       72.0   480.0        5 660. 5         735.4   1 400.4  7,796.3               22'.4 6 . ;t 2.0
B. UIECNICAt ASSISTANCE A 169011N6
Nis                                                      918.0          582.0           -   ,00. 0          91.8    13 2                 150.0         439.0          347.8          -    186.8               66.7            567.4
01tEt SIUDBIES                                           133.1          5 11.5             1,245.0          13. 4    5t. 2               124.5         335.2          239.3                574.,5             14.3           U43.1
t0l41111                                               1. 287. 0        383.0           -  1. 650.0        128 ?    36. 3           -   165 0         657.7           231.2          -        . 9             13.7            731.1
. . . .  .  ..  . .  ...      . .  ....              ... . .  -- - - - - - - - - - - ...   ......  - - - - - - - - - - --  - - -  - - -  - --.........   .    .   --  - --  - -
Sib-Total IEStlCtt ASSISTANCE A IMISING                   2,938.5         1,458.5          -  4,395.0          293.9    145 7           -   439 5       1,431.9          818.3           -  2 250.2              194.8         1, 947.6
Total INVESTRE4T COSTS                                      66258. 1       20.522.1 12.422.2 99,202.4           3.954.0 2,417. 1    691.2 7,062.3         41, 177. 1      14.06? 4  7,688.5 62.913.0              3,261.7        45.820.4
Total                                                        66.258. 1       20.522. 1 12.422.2 99,202.4         3.954.0 2.417. 1    691.2 7.062 3    41,111.1             14.067 4  7.668.5 62.913.0              3. 261 7       45,820.4
. .... .... . . .. . . . . .. .... ....................... ............ .....  ........      ....................... .. .. . . .... .... .... . ...................   .....  ...  .   ..  .  .........     ....................
01
0D 
0 _



ARAB REPUBLIC Of EGYPT
PUMPING SIATIONS REHABILItATION POJECT  it
Soaoy Account by Project Ctmponent
ILE '0003
REAIkililTAION  Of PUIPING  SinuIOUS
NEWI LAND                                                                                           WORXSMOPS,  LA8ORATORIES  8
EXTENSION  8          BASED                                                                                                     ISc    UitmE
REPtACEMENI  Of SIAIIONS    REPLACEMENT Of    REHABILITATION  Of                           --------    ..........................
NEWLY         EQUIPMENI         REPLACING        EQUIPMIKY  IN                REMAINING                                                  VEHICLES  AND
REPLACED   ItN EIISTING           FLOATING         THE  EXISTING        STATIONS  IINBIEATVLE   WORESHOP                                       HEAVY            COPUtItERS AND    MISCELLANEOUS
STATIONS         STATIONS         STATIONS   PUMPING  STATIONS                  PROGRAU                EOUIPMENI E tAsORA1ORIES   EOUIPMENI                  TEtECOMUICATION    EQUIPMENT
1.  INVESIMENI COStS
A. ELECRtO-MECHANICAL  EQUIPMENT
............... .................. .  .  .
FIRM  PRO AN                                                  10.596.0              11.022.S    4,235.3                   17,296.0                               *               -                    -                  -                        -
INDICATIVE  PROGRU                                                      -                    -              *                       -                  2020. 0                   -                    -                  -                        -           1,200.0
Sub-Total EtECTRO-MECHANICAL  EQUIPENTI                            10.596.0             11.022 5    4,235.3                   17,298.0                      20.200.0                 -                     *                 -                         -            ,200.
8   Civil  WORKS
NilfITllNSIIN  Of P   STAtIONS                                  4.988 6              2.426S           373  0                        -                             -
RIPaXTI#   S   IH"Ae  Of  IISIING  STATIONS                                             Il*  6              -                 224  1                        636 0
STAID  HOUSIIG NLW                                               S615 0                 120 0         120 0                   600.0                         375                                       -
Sl1fF MOUSING REPAIRS a REHAs                                     240 0                 144 0         128 0                   216.0                         225.0
OFFICIS.  WORUSHOPS A STORES  NEW                                       -                     -             -                       -                                            -                    -                  -                        -                   -
REHAB  A REPAIRS  EXISTING  IACIbillES
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~,... .............. ..... .................. ....................        ................... . ...... ................. .. .....
Sit-lotal CIVIL  WORKS                                              5.843  6             2,002  1         626.0                 1.040. 1                     1.238                              -                            -                         -                   - 
c   WORKSHOPS A MISC. EQUIPTMENT
WORKSHOP 8 ELECTRICAL  LABORATORIES                                     -                            -                  -                          -                     3.200 0              1.000.0                    -                                            ,D
VEHICLES A MISC   EQUIPMENT                                                                  -              -                       -                             -              -                     *        5.225.0                            -          1. T.OI
COMPUIERS S  TEtECOPMMNICAIION                                                            -                      -                                 -                             -                    -                  -                2,000.0                     -
..  .. ....     ...... ............ .........     ................   .    ...... .....    .....   ...............     ............. ............  ---------.. . -- - - -- - -   -- - -- - -   -- - -- - -- - -   -------------
Stb-lotal WORKSHOPS a MISC.  EQWIPMENI                                      *                                   -                                                            3,200.0              1.so0.0           5,225.0                   2.000.0             I. 150.0
0.  TECNNICAL  ASSISIANCE  A IRAINING
............ ................. .. .   
MIS                                                                                                                                                                            -                     -
OIIER  SIUOIES
TRAINING                                                                .-                                  --                                                                   ---
Sdi-Total  TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE  S  TRAINING--
... .... . .... .... .... ... ... .......... ........... ... ... .... ....... ........ ------..                        -------   -. ----                      . ........................ ..... ...... ....... ........ 
total  INVESTMENT  COSTS                                               16 439.6             13 824 6    4 361 2                   I8 336  1                     21.438 0         3.200  0             I 800.0           5,225.0                   2000.0             2,350.0
total BASELINE  COSTS                                                   16.439 6             13,824 6    4, 61. 2                   1   336.1                    21,438.          3.200 0               1,800.0           5.225.0                  2 000. 0            2. 50.0
Physical Continpgnci                                                 1. 408. 7             1.005  I        418 6                 1. II7. 8                     1.142  1          210.0                270 0                                             -             180.0
Price  Cootingt ncaos                                               10,542.3              8.498  1    2.260  3                  12,181.6                     14.439.1         1.836.5               1,341.5           2,S85.4                   1.249.3            1.464.6
.......... . ....... .  ... .... .. ........ ............. . ..........    ..... ................. . .................. ..... .............. ........ ...... ............ ......... .............. .  .............. ...
total PROJECI cOS1S                                                     28.390.5             23.327 8    7,540. 1                  31,709.4                      37.019.8         5.246.5              31411.5            7.910.4                  3.249.58            3994.6
la"ss                                                                2.747.6              3,169 a          643.5                4,395 4                       5.2959             787.0                sit.?           1,5S2.I                     650.0               798.0
foresin  Erchange                                                   16.324.7             15.330 0    5.071 0                   23.557.2                      27. 167. 1       3.347.6              2.380.1           5.5S3.4                   2.599.3             2. 791. S
........    ....... . ............... ........................... .. .  ........... .....    ........ ......................... ............................................ ............ ................ ..................... ...........  .....................  ,.,,,,,,,   
-J
I-



ARA8 REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABIlITATION PROJECT If
Suary Account by Project Cowonent
ILE '000)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND IRAINING
O03 REQUIREMENT
BUILOING FACILITIES                        STRENGTHENING                                              Physical
-------------  MANAGENENT           HED          ENVIRONMENTAL                          Cont ingencies
STAFF             WORKSHOP   INFORNATION AND PRIVITIZAIION  NONITORING AND                            -------------
HOUSING  OFFICES AND STORES    SERVICE   OF REPAIR SERVICES    SERVICE           TRAINING   lotal       1    AmDunt
1. INVESTMENT COSIS
A. ELECTRO-IIAECHANlCt EQUIPNENt
43 '49.7   5.7  2.473.4
FIRN POGORN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   - -21,400. 0 5. 3 I. 137. 0
INDICATIVE PROGRAM
Sub-lotas  EtECIRD-UECIIAHICAt EQUIPMENT                                      .                                    -                           64.549.7   5.S  3.610 4
. CIVIlt WORKS
NtItI/littslAtII of P      SIAIIONS                                                                                                    -    7.793. 1   5.0  1. 1690
(I'AII' IUSIN  HENAt Of.2400 G.                                                          -                                             -ON     973.7  15. 0    146.1
StItAIl. "OUSING Nitnin ttt ittstiltc Slu     2.240 0                                   -                   .                         -    4.070 0  15.0    610.5
SIAFf HOUSING REPAIRS A REHA8                                                                                                                 953.0  15.0    143.0
OFFICES. MORP.SHOPS 8 STOREtS VNE                 793. 0       ----                                                                    -       793.0  15. 0    fi9. 0
REHAB 8 REPAIRS EXISTING FACILITIES            2 300. 0                                                                                     2,300.0  15. 0    345.0
St-0otal CIVIL WORKS                              5.333. 0       -                                                                       -   16. 882. 7  1S. 0  2.532.4
C, WORltSHOPS a MISC. EQUIPNENT
WORKSHOP a ALECTRICAL tA8MORAORES                     -        ---                                                                     -    5,000.0   9.6    460.0
VEHICLES 8 MISC. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                  6.375. 0   0.0      0.0
COMPUTERS A IELECOIINUNICATION                        -                   ----                                                         -    2,000.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total WORKSHOPS 8 MISC. EQUIPMENT                    -                                  -         -                                       13. 375.0   3. 6    480. 0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 8 TRAINING
His     -           -       I.500. 0                   -               -         -    I 500. 0  10. 0    150. 0
MItER                                                 -       -           -             -               850.0           395.0         -    1, 245.0  10.0    124.5
TR SIEING                                                                                                   -               -  1, 650. 0    1, 650. 0  10. 0    165. 0
Sib-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 8 TRAIHIt                -                            1  500.0              850.0           395.0  1. 650. 0    4,395.0  10.     439.5
Total ItESltMEtT COSTS                               5,333.0                             S 1500.0             850.0           395.0  1.650. 0   99,202.4   7. I 7.062. 3
total BAEINVEMENTS                                   5,233.0         --                 1,500.0                850. 0          395.0  I. 650. 0   99,202.4   7. 1 7.062. 3
Total BASELINtE COSTS                                   800.0        -           -         150.0                85.0            39.5    165.0    7,062.3   0.0         0.0
Physical Cont lflG ies                             4 159. 7                            788.8               407. 8          166. 7    88  9   62 913. 0   6. 6  4. 182.7                           .
Price Contingencices                                                                                                                          -----
Total PROJECI COSTS                                  10.292.7        -           -      2,436.8              1.342.8           601.2  2,703.9  169.177.7   6.6 11,244.9
[otol  t                                $:C51:=D ;=::~sn: ::a :  S::= ::=   =5==:S::s  S:=::=::S::=::S:: =:::::::::  : :::=::   :=:: ::    :3:4                                         (D 
Taxes  -  -                -                           -               -        -   20,781.8   5.2  1.088.8
foreign Exchange                                  2,058.5         -          -       1. 448. 8             807.8            334.3  2,073.4  111, 389. 2   5. 6  6, 229.2 2_
_  _     -                                                                                                                                                                                             _-----------------------  -----------------------------------  -------------   --------------------------------   ---------------------------------------



LaB EIPULIC or lOT?
FOUIN sullenI B1IIA1B,1iLTTIO PROJCT if
Proposed Tender Processing ScheduLe for Various
Equipment and civit Works
:?MIR1 Psi?AIaTioi:             :tEIDERPIoposALs PIOCESSIK                        NUF IIT  I  CIVIL OCs0115OPLIITO11
TENDS Be.:       ~DISCRIPTIUN              :50WR         Hil  :1  sRun-   :FlOvsLS:                : Bll  :PATNE II?iAMIouc?.:    CIVIL 30115    :N01FUln:
A TUAB Of                                         :iuVE.   11lgg111        LIST I    0OR BID  :EVALDA?iOi:iPi,    AI D   :    AID    :-----:----  -----: fIia
LUNlD                                             DOC.  :   IN       1ISSn  DOC.:  PIIP.   1 sucom. :a A1111D:11OBL1Z1:, SBIPPINM           STAB?    COIPI.  MUeCTIO11 Mas1,-
PR"?. :AD1111TISR.:                                                                     DilTE      DATE   1a  MSIN:IMUM,:
M     92    3ankey tender for hi Dr. P.    :112/39  :4/90                    1       i R90     l2/90      :4191    sii /91                    :2/1I              /114
:stations at 11 Abbassa I             Ito      :to        :6/so       :to        :t.         :to      :o         to          3619        6/94      :to        :9/94
:i. WIcB  :vatekor (I. Delta)                      ::iso0   : 5/90                  :12/so    :3/91        ',1/Is   :7/91    :8/92       It:                     8/4       1
1./lCD   lorsokey Tedehr for extension         :12,99   :6/so        ::9030                              5,1 :/i          :oe                                :4/94
:and/of      ',of 0.?. Stations at his laBsab,  't.  to  :os,so9                    :t.        1o    :to   30       :to       :o           "to/el     10/94    1to          :ii/9.
'Direct. hu.:aod 11-Irad (11-Irad Possibly         56190   :7/90        :            1/91        /9         791      ii         092        ::10/94
Dir. fee.)                                    :::
:3. 11/lCD   Repiacenest of too floatins P.   :13/90  :17/90                         10/90   :13/91        T1/91   :sis1    411/91        :                     :/93
:atations to flied load based at   :to        :to          :91/90    :1to        :to          to    Itto        :to          :11/si     :is:    :to           312/83
:hleltba, 11-C4aliai Chaub,           :69190   :suso0     :0          :2,ui      :slsi       :eii9i   "io/It   :iti0        :0          :          :11,93
'insaa, Salia kbil. 1lhuoeer,                :        :                       ::                             :         ::::
:ll-Dosarla.Altia Shenonds,aAbn                                                                         
:Arata,E11llkulleisaid Sebaha 
(9pper Igypt)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                       I            5          4                      
:4. Il/lC   Vehclesand Rise. luipaest         :610 190 9 :i/e11/91                       :14/9 3/9:ss    "11Ms    "l2/91St                                             
Ito     :1o         :12/90      :to       I1to         "to      to       :t               -- - -                         
4  I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~:s/9o   :iii90       :3/91      :7/91       :sisi  :111/91   :eis:         1 12
S5. Ul/B.P. .:D1rect Purchase of Spare Parts    19/90   1                                 /1t   /9          111:             :s
*ad Eqcipseat 4-5 statiose io         :to      11/91       11/9            (negotiations)    to                 Ito              -- : -- : -- :-- 1
:s. Ct/LCD  :Civil Works leader for construe-  :,12/89            :     :/9o        :7/90      'I 1190     :2/91 :             
3tion of offices/stores and           :to      :4/90       Ito         :to       :to          :to    :16/91    11   ---    :7/91        :9192          --
:norknoko  In gpper [M~t              :3/90   1            :16(90      :io/so    :i/9i       :3/91   1          1            1
:7. C/LCD   Miyl l orkB Teeder for construc-  :12/99  1                 1/96        :sig9.     :12/9.      :3/9i1                         1:
Monc o! staff honsiag io gpper    :to         :5/90       :to         Ito        :o          :1o      :/91    :      --      :7/si    119/92                  I--1
3uEgpt                                       :4/90   1            :7/90       :Iis90    12/91        :4/sI   I                      1                     :1        It       It:                       -
15. CE/LCD  :Civil Works tender for construe-  :12/89::io                           :/9              :1/91 :#/i              ::                      ::                                                      0
.tion aud norkshop in Lover i,ypt  :to        :s,so       3           1 t        3 Ito   , 1  791                    ---     8691       :10(92    : 
W0                     /1 .*9 *3  1                    ,/9    ,                        ItI,
-- -- -- --  - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -  * - - - - -- - - - -*-- - - -  *-- -- -  .1- - - - - : - - -  - - - -  - - - - - .-- -- --  -- - -- - - -- - -  -- - -



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT 11
Proposed Tender Processing Schedule for Various
Equipment end Civil Works
*  4                                  :7MphR fiEpalAlOl:              :II11IDflIOPOSAS PROCISSII6               '         OUIPt mD  CIVIL l0ns COILitIO 
'Dilfgl6   m                                        ------- ----------  FIN01%  ,--------- 81---------- ........ -tIDBUC-----------:- ---------------------------:--- I...... 
?M IR i0.1               DISCSIUm0                tSlim'    Al         ' SKOIt-  IPIo0sALs                 B       R ITIM   :     Acic 1.:    CIVIL  9115       KINQIII           a
a mln or                                                      willm    III?i 5  L A7I a     N  UD :0I: IOI,1Ih   :  sll   ,    UD        ---------           I----------  IIU '
AIUIDDOC.                                                           ,IS :IIs DOC.:  nP.  3  RICO. 5 'I DIIDOBILIZl'II $1            1    Su?  Icon. in5clol  twls-t
nil. :ID11117BI.I             :          Is          ,                  :            ' Dm 'ATE    Din      a    iususjoirn:
,9. Crc    'Csn Vorks lTeder for costsri -  11/90                  :     :ano        :10/90    :2/91       I5/Il   1                                                           '5
ttion of  taff bousing In Loser    :to         1/90       :to          to         to         :to      :1/91          ---    :991       :11/92     :   ---   t
5bPt~~~~~~                                                                                                  ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5           5  5  5    :
, -          -                    5          5-----    --------    --------, --------- - ----- ---- -------
nf  93        'lurke  tender for low Dr. P.         5        '           t                     t           t          t       t 
:10.  iICu   :stations at 11 hllah, I1  ataria 011/1   :5/91             !s/1                  :1ii2       Isis:2   Iui    :3/92           I          :          ,#/S      : 
:              Illast Delta), Ur 11 Ia .on,         :to     :to          57n1        Ito       "to         tto       to       Ito          19/92     19/95      Ito        :10/15  t
hSealret 11 loran at and  alsa        5/91   16/91                    s12/1      :m          5sn2   :6/92    :993                       :S:9/95
I                                            :12/91    11/92        :6/92~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I89   4          49
,kv  op llWrmXt)                      :1 t. 't
:11.  1/ICII  htrnke, Tlender fo  htessiou of   :2/91   Is/s1            I          :9/si      :2is: Vs2      sz   IS/S2    :10/92        It          :                             :/94
4Puplg Station at hlq  l4mul  :t:o tO                    :/91        :to        !to         Ito       to       110         :10/n      :O/95    11to         :11/95
'aud Drai 3                           115/1   :7/91       :           :1/92      :5/92       :7/92   13/92    :10a           :         I           1        : I
-- - - - --S-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - --4- - - -0 -- -- - ---- - -- --4    -- - - --         - -- - -   4- -- --4 -- -- -   :- - -- - -   4-- - - -- - - - -:- - - - -   - - -
:----- - I-----------------  ----  ------  ------ --------- ---:------- ---:--*-- -------- -:----------------5 ---------                                   -------   ----
:12. 0/1C     :Teader t ort placoe    t of equip-  :a/91   :7/91         5           :isisi   1:3/2        :7/92      i:    :11/           Is                   .12/33    : 
t              nt sitbi  euisting P. statIons  "to          :tO          :0/91       to         t          It   to  to         t  :t  ---:   ---    to                     :/95
:at Dranlt  , BeoMaI/Saea andat U     1691   :3/91        :           :2/#3 /92   : 2        :8/9I2 :19/#       1111                               t/15               :
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~           ~ ~ ~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ *          4.s1    I *                    4 *                               4          5       
i--------- ----------------------------             i---- 3 ------  ------  i----- 1 ------  i---- 1 -----  i------  -----  -----  ----- ---
labe il 11lA Eaqa           4  4l 4&f       4Tn       5n                                4           4m tm  sn  Sln       In        :          :                             4ss
113. f/lC     Iteder for  Orpkcetp   of ei          :/91   :siu1        1It/l    :4/s9t                   26/92   :10/92    112/92        1          1          11/9
Blntsitbul  eitings.   p. s       s     o     :to         :10/91       to        zto         Ito      :to      Ito           :   --        ---        ---   :6/--
-1/91    109/1      1:          1492       18/92       :9/92  11112/    :In/9               :          :                        0
11.1 /.PD erader for           t ofrsorp  Prn      15/91   9/91        Is            1    m2   to/1 0/5 2   19/2    2        :1/93                  1:
:ldet ricalk t tO equilipOt           Itto     2na        :1/92        to t oIrttos           tO      Ito      Ito               ---:    ---I   ---:    ---:
1 -s tbtm   0 ID    8t                          1 /9 :/2/2                                    110/92     /      11/9
:5                                           4       4            5          5                      5                                                               :      :
I5.   /.P. :1rect Prehas of apae parts    :1is1                                      t1 92 to 10/92   :1/92  5                :2/93        :                     I         I :
5ad eulpsat to rehabilitate    Istto          12/9B21/2                   (UtiationI   :to            1/93      to               ---       ---        ---       ---  
5                                           5          :                    t                      :                    :          :        5                     %   F  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
76- statioa  in Upper Ipt             11/92   I                                              1123/92            h121/3                            I.         I.     .
...1 ....  ......../........... IDrc$urhs.f pr.ars  :291:                                59 t---    11.....2  s1/9 ----  .......          :          1
land squipasat to rehabilitate-Ito--/ -- 4/9 -n----i-tis-s                       .to..2/93... I------- I------   -------   -----
m x
0
*4-



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUNPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT It
Proposed Tender Processing Schedule for Varrous
Equipuent and Cfvil Works
-- --  -- --   -- - - - - -  - - -- - -  - - - - -   a-- - -  - - - --    - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - -- - - - -    - - --    - - - - - -  -- - - - -  - - - -- - -  - - - -  - -
*                          ~~~~~~~~~:TuDE   PDB?IaDTIOl:    :TIEIPOOAL   'OCSI                                   piIU     upD CIVIL pllBs COuIPLIID
------ ---   PRIOUAL.               ------- - --:  :               - -- ---0  - ------ --------: ---
MIRD PO. :               DESCtiNlIOI              :sQBYRT      B ill   :seOn-  :nROPSaLS:               B: Pan    :rau      l UAHFCTE."    CIVIL VMRS    :IOUIpiIII
IaM nan                                           :II?IST.:  REVIE      LIST 6  :0OR BID  :E1YALUaTIOI:BIVEW1    AID   :    ain          1 :------: -----:-------i  AL
IAWAD     ::DOC.  :1  AnD    :'ss' DnC.:  nit.  :a1 uICOH. :a alIDuoIIooLi:1: SHINING   :  START  :coiFt.   isMICTO  :cols-1
PBflP. :ADvuunSI.:                                  :.  Dali                                       DATE   :. ?ESTIWG:1SIoIING:
------------- I- --------------- ---------------   1- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  -- - --  -- - -- -  -- - - -  -- - - -   .. . . .  - - -
11. Cl/ACD     vili Works Tender for construc-:                                               :: 
Moonof Offices/Stores and Work-  i1/91                    : 7/91       9/8/1      i1/92      :4/92
:iligfor about 4-5 stations   :5i91                  :a,,i1      :12/0i    :3/92        :5,:   :          : 
:la upper Rapt
------------ II- --------------- ---------------  -- - -  -- - - -  -- - -- -  - - -- -  -- -- - -- - -- -  -- - -- -- - -- -  -- - - -  -- - - -    -- - - -   - - -
;JO. Cl/CD  'Civil lorke tender for construc-  u2I91                     :8(91       "IOi9i    12(92       :5/92   :1         I
:tion of staff housing In upper    :to        :7/11       :to,         ta        :to         :to      :7/92           :       0--  892  .10/93   :1  ---
'EgMt snd repairs to existing         :sin9               :9/91       :iis2      :4192       :6/92
1I9. CE/LCD   Civil larks Tender for construe-:                                                ::                   :        ::
Maln of Offices/Stores and lark-  :3/91                   19i91        ii119     :3/92       :11/92
:sbops a6d Debab. of P. station    :to        :8(91        to         :to        :to         :to      :8/92          ---    :9/92       :11is 9--
:buildina for about 4-5 stations    7/91                   tiiSi1    :2/92       '5/92       :7/92
In LoerE[gypt:                                                              :                      :       :         :::aa                                                  I
:,29. CE/LC   :cvil larks Tender for staff boa- :4/91                    ioi0s9      :12/91    :iz          7929:                                                 
I:slog iniclding repairs to ezisting:to               :9/91       :to        :to        !to         :to      :9/92          --        0/92    :12/93     : -- :--:
II:staff houses in Lover Egypt               :6/91                : 1(91     :3/92      :6(92      :18192 a                                    aIa                           a
I----- ------ ------ ----- ------ ------ ----- -   ---- --   --- -----  ----- ----   - ----- -   ---- -----   ----   ------ - I--- ----- --   --- -----  ----- --   ---a----a--a - a
:21. fl/D.P. 'Direct Purchase af equipnent and  :7/92                    :                1/93 to 1/93    68/93               :11/93                                         
' spare parts to rehabilitate re.ui-:to               :11/92    :112(92           (negotiations)    :ta      :10/93    to--a 
a:sngr 4-5 stations in Upper Egypt  :19/92:                      :                      :           :9/93   :          :/94         :                                        a
:22. H/lCD   'Direct Purchase of equipment and  :7(92   :                ::    1/93 to 7/93    :8/93   :                      :11/93:
:spare parts to rehabilitate resai-:,to       :iuu        :i:i9z    :1  (negotiations)  :1to          :10/93  :1to: *-                      -- : --
:uing 4-5 stations In Lover Egypt  :110/92  :             :           a          a            9/93   :          :7/94        :aa                                      a
00 



ARB REPUILIC OF EGYPT
PUNPING STATIONS RENABILITATION PROJECT It
Proposed Terder Processing Scheuile for Varfous
Equipment and Civil Works
-*    .       ..                                                  .          .      .     .... ..  .. .........................................
"mu   PRIP6117101:S         !S         M    ML     o         in                      M 131m cfLV SM Lt
11Du3 ?11tlolt0:                   :n0uiiioiosas 1R0CssiN                                I QOIFIIM  ll CIVI  10115 COUVLITIC
DI6I6IIIt6ID  :                                         s-I------ ----------: PII@IIL.u    :-----:-----------                      :5-----------:----------------------------:-------
I          t30.o             D    IITInIH                "smn:?,               :  SHORT-    ,o0POSS                    U      "PU11    1,11311C111.:             VMS           3QQl1f:
a  Uj  of:                                            :IUs?.:  13111:  LIst  :01 BID  I,1LUItIO1:iu,ID                        AID       :    ID      --------- -------- :---------P hU iL
: 119 :UD                                           g     .  :   W         :sS.            PM.lim .   :"  wu . :'s uiD:uoil:i:   nlIP   N            stin ll    c L.  :11un0o1 :couIs-:
PM. 3MINW         s.:                                    Is:       :          :                DAI         Dill   a& 1n1u:st is011:
:------------ ---------------------------------- ------- :1---------- ---------- --------- ---------- :------- -------- ----------- --------- .......... --------- -------:
113. IS/IC,  :tader for Ilectriticatlo           f o       i63    :11J92                     l/93       36/93        :9113   :II/13    :11/91
WomCnDes ID &bt 20 statieu               tto        to         :12/92        :to        "to           to        to        :to               ---    :   ---          -
:/92    "I/It                      :5,93       :8si3        11019:  :,12/93    tl95           '                                   :
:------------:------------------------------ ---:-------:-----------I----------:--------- ---------- -------:----------------------------  ---------  ---------I-------
U11. iiVICB    teader for  echalceal truab rack  t/92    :11/92                             02/93        1/93        :10/11   :12/3          2/94                              T195
*cleaaing equipest for aboot 20   :to              ,to          UIi         Ito         "to           to        to        to            :3195      :6195        to          IOl5s
:-         -    statiows                                 :10/92   :12/92       :6/9$                    :8/13        hIi/93  :11/4       :9 1n615      :                        9195
:------------ :1----------------------------------:------- ---------- ----------- I---------:----------- I------- :1-------- :1----------- 1.--------- --------- --------- -------:
125. C1/lCII  :Ciil forXets luer to rokabilitate 219t                          3IA2          ll/12      12/93        45/93        0 
::d u lreir 1-5 P. station  io            to      :11792       11 to        11 to      11 to         Sto                                  :l         10/            - 
i peer lop                                        6192                 :10/92        t/9J       :I/03        :tn93     :         :::
I2N. Ct/CII     Ciil *erks tender to rehabililtatel3/92                        :9/92        :12/92      :3/u3        :6/93
ud repair 1-1 stations In            r  :to       192          Ito           to         to           to       :/93       :    ---      :/93        :11191          ---        --
4   t                         zrn~~~~~~~~:/2  :       11/92       :2/93      15/       793                    :              :          :9|
------------ ---------------------------------- ------- ---------- ---------- --------- ---------- :------- -------- ----------- --------- --------- --------- -------                                                                  LA
RT Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
:16 ssLC        i,ilrsTeertrbaitae1 :                                    :      9/9         :siz        :i:           :i:                  :          :                        , 
:n. 11     '    Dim   t perdue for  pra pats    :l3               :                               12/93 to l/l OS7/91 #  ,iO/9 g...   * .  :
::eqoipwot to rehabilltate abot    :to                    :10/93        111/93           (Delotlatiloes       to       9/91       to                ---         ---         ---       --
*1-5 stateu  In ole  o4 t                :93       :            :            :          :to                    :8/9       695                       11
:------------ :---------------------------------- :------- ---------- -----------:--------- ---------- :-------:-------I--:--------- --:-------  --:-------  -:--------I-'-------:
MR. CRAUX    'Civil Rorke teader to rebabliltste 1/93                           IOIN0        1/91       :sAl1       11B/94    I:        It             :                       ::
:In    rePair 1-5 stations Is 9per   to                   D9/9J         to            to         to           to        10/914         --,I/"196--                                     -
:              :ad Lower 4nt                             :8/93    :            :121/93       1i/91      :1/9           /93                                         :           :
:  ... ... ................ ..------..--------- ........... I---------.-- -------,--- ------- -- ------  -:---------:-------- --,------- ------ - ----:--: 
121. CK/W       Direlt porke   feohr to repair ad          /11/          9           3 :    12/9     9  to8/91       91/94 
Ietto reallte                  a tl ottices  start  to  :10193   to           toe        :to          to      :-1/91     It             :   --- '       ---    :
'ad base tis  bot  Opper siid             9/93                   I/9l        3/9I       58/94         ID/94                            : /9        1
:Lfere4n                                
-------- -- ----:------------------------------ -------- --:-------- --:------ --I-:--------- ---------- ------- -------- ----------- --------- --------- ----------:-- ----:
1-  0-3  :t-
5o)  ID
M M
*o  H
0h



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Table 9
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(USS Million)
Base Cost                Loan Amont       Disbursement
Plus Expected                                      X
Price Increases
1.      Supply and Installation of
Equipment (Including spare
parts) and related ceivil
works for puping stations                          35.00            25.60            100X of foreign
expenditure or
ex-factory cost
2.      Equipment and Material other than
pumping stations                                    5.70             4.90                    "
3.      Consultants and Training                             0.03             0.03            100X of foreign
expenditure
4.      Unallocated                                          0.47             0.47
Total                                              41.20            31.00
m:egt.tbl.9



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Table 10
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan
DISBURSEMENTS            PROFILES
IBRD FISCAL YEAR         SEMESTER    CUMULATIVE  PROJECT      EGYPT
AND SEMESTER             US$         US$            X         AGRICULTURE
ENDING                   MILLION     MILLION                       X
1921
June 30, 1991            0.1          0.1           0.3        0.0
1992
December 31, 1991        0.3          0.4           1.3        3.0
June 30, 1992            0.7          1.1           3.5        8.0
1993
December 31, 1992        1.5          2.6           8.4       14.0
June 30, 1993            2.0          4.6          14.8       19.0
1994
December 31, 1993        2.5          7.1          22.9       26.0
June 30, 1994            3.0         10.0          32.6       32.0
1995
December 31, 1994        3.5         13.6          43.9       40.0
June 30, 1995            4.0         17.6          56.8       50.0
1996
December 31, 1995        4.0         21.6          69.7       59.0
June 30, 1996            4.0         25.6          82.6       68.0
1997
December 31, 1996        2.6         28.2          91.0       76.0
June 30, 1997            1.4         29.6          95.5       85.0
1998
December 31, 1997 A/    1.4          31.0         100.0       95.0
_/ Closing Date December 31, 1997.
m:\phyllis\tbl.10



- 56 -
AtNEX II
Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC Of E6YPT
FUWPINS STATIONS REABILITATION PROJECT 11
List of lle Stations and Stations Proposed for Estension
and Replacing Floatinq with Land-Based Stations
:          *            :               :           ,              -    -:                                         --:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
IUII  OF UNITS AND CAPACITY OF EACH
:  :            :              ,           .                     :----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........--------------:--  ---- ------:-
*NAME OF         RED                                 :SEPVICE AREA (FEDDANI:  EIISTIN6         PROPOSED      EXTENSION
P. STATION   :DIRECTORATE   GOVERNORATE    FUNCTION  --------------------------------------------- ----------
OESI6NED   PROPOSED  110 WNIT CAP.. NO :UNIT CAP.: N   UINIT CAP.:
I::CS       :  LCMS):    :  (CaSl
----------------------   ------------                                                         - --------:------------------- -  - -: ----:---------
:A. NEV STATIONS REPLACING EXISTIN6
:1. Faraskur             East Delta   Daqahilia       Drainage       S0,000     55,000    4          5    6            *
11                        ~~~2 1.5
:2. El Irad              East Delta  :Dgabilia        Orainage       60,000 160,000 24               8    4         8
t. El Ratria            East Delta   Daqahilia       Orainage       40,000      40,000    3         Q    3          S
4. El Bellaha           East Delta   Isuali           Drainaqe       5,000       5,000    I 1            3          I
*  S  S  S  S                     :i:        o I    2:      0.5:
:3. El Abbasa            East Delta  :Sharqia         :DrlIrrig.      5,000      5,000    5       0.25    52    0.25
6. Sales New (floatinq)IUpper Eqypt  Asan            :Irrig.           200         200    2      0.25    2 2:    0.s
@  EXTENION AND  REPLACE EUIPlENT 111 EIISTI6 StATIOllS
:1 Rain Ka zabr         :East Delta  Sharqia         Winals,        45,000      55,000    3          5    3         5    3          5
2
:2. Halq El-61u         N1orth Most   Alxandria       Drainage  2  55,000       60,000    5          5    - I       -     2         5
Delta       :                          '                             
23. Drain 3             :Niddle DIt2Kafr El-Shtikhlrainage  2 0,000             55,000    *          5    4          5:  3          3
*~~~ a                          I              I                9                .    .          .    .         .     .
C. REPLACIN6 FLOATING STATIONS lITH LAND BASEO
21. Monmi ha             Uoou  Egypt Asin            :Irrigation:       170        600    1       0.35    3 3     0.5
:2. El-kainia           :Uppor Egypt !Awan           :Irrigation!       550        550    2       0.50    2 :     0.5
:3. Sharb AsuAn          Uppur Egypt :Asha            :Irrigation!      220        500    2       0.25    2 2:    0.5
:4. Salu  Kibly         2UppW  Egypt 3swan            :Irrigation!      350        500    2       0.35    2 2     0.5
:5. El-leur              Uppr Egypt :Asun             :Irrigation:      500        700    3       0.50 2   :      0.5
:6. Abu Arafa           IUVOr Eppt  Asian             :Irrigation:      220 I      500    5       015     2       0.3
:7. Ati Shunouda         UppW  Egypt lAsumn           Irrigati,n        500        500    2       0.50    2I      0.3
:6. EI-Raaikun          :Ueper Egypt :Aslvn           :Irrigation:      250 2      500   22       0.25    2 :    0.5 2
:9. Shabah              2Uppor Egypt !Awn             :Irrigationl      500        100    2 2     0.75 : s:       0.5 2
:o.n...,                   -      -..        . ..-.. I



- 57 -
Table 2
AQAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPINg SiTATION RHILITalON PROECT II
List of Stations With Complete or Partial Reslacoent
of Ecuigment Using Existina Pumuini Station
Name of            MED       Governorate   Function      Service Area         Number of each
P. Station     Directorate                                     (fd)            Unit Capaclt
Designed Proposed Existing Proposed
No. Unit No. Unit
l.Additional  East Delta    Sharqia        Drainage   65,000       65,000   4   7.5  4   7.5
Kassaby
2.Saft                          a                      95,000      95,000   6   7.5  6   7.5
3.Drain 8     Kidddle       Kafr                       90,000      90,000   6   7.5  6   7.5
Delta         El-Sheikh
4.Tahady B    South-West    Beheria        Irrig.      15,000      15,000   4   2.4  4   2.5
Delta
5.Tahady C                                             10,000      12,000   3   2.1  3   2.5
6.Sahel El-   Upper Egypt   Aswan          Irrig.         550         800   1   0.5  2   0.5
Hagz (Fl.)
7.Busali         U              m          Drainage    7,000        7,000    (2 0.6  5  0.5
Sabaeya                                                                    (3 0.5
8.El - omaria   a               n          Irrig.         500       1,000   2   1.6  2   1.5
Floating



- 58 -
Table 3
MRAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT 1I
List of Workshops. Electrical Laboratories
and Miscellaneous EpuiDment
General Workshop and    Regional           Total
and Electrical Labs.    Directorates_
Lower       Upper       Lower Upper
Egypt       Egypt       Egypt Egypt
WORKSHOPS EOUIPMENT
1. Vertical Drilling Machine        -           -             -     2           2
2. Shapping Machines                            -             -     2           2
3. Center Lathe                                 -             -     2           2
4. Universal Drilling Machines      -           -             1     -           1
5. Grinding Attachments             -           -             2     1           3
6. Hacksaws                                     -            2      1           3
7. Mono-rail Cranes 5T              4           3             -     -           7
8. Shearing Machines                            -             -     2           2
9. Mobile Workshops/Elec. Lab.      -                         8     6          14
10- Basic Tools for P.Station       -           -          120    80          200
11. Misc. Equipment for District   -                         10     -          10
Level Workshops
12. Flat Red Trucks                 5           4             2     1          12
13. Water Tanker 1000 Lit. Cap.    -            -             1     1           2
14. Fork Lifts                      1           1             2     1           5
15. Mobile Cranes                   3           2             -     -           5
16. Trailer Tractor                 1           -             -     -           1
ELECTRICAL LABORATORIES
1. Equipment for Existing Labs                  -            4      2           6
MiLL        US EQUPMENT
1. Ball Joints 70cm 20 Shift                   -           10      6          16
2. Ball Joints 50cm 20 Shift       -                        4      6          10
3. Power Capacitors for             -           -            14     6          20
P. Factor Correction
4. Repairs to Existing 80 Ton       -           -             -     1           1
Dock
5. Reverse Omasis for Water         -           -            10     6          16
Purification (300m/day cap)



- 59 -
Annex II
Table 4
UU UUIITC 01 ur
List ot leMieli  lituinm t
-- - -- -  -------- I----------:--- -            ---  --------                         ---   -------  ----
Total      I'm  uwquIM   1'  CUTIIL              :cui  iouton :   *roni            , MiIc?O Ut
tlt D   Ultts  "InD as. 6&|5 ' Dll t osUl          0  utDi  cts
------------''---'-''''----,---------'-------'----*--'-------!-------.----------_ _  ,          -- -----,,' 
*                                                                                                         I 
|               nter 'MASC. Ierl4' 4 nt  I 4t: UMt 4nt  kM 4nt                        [M4t: [Mt             :
:1. lsarCan  '              I '           t     :      1 r     -a        -t -n                    - . I          SI
--- --------    -   :                  '       t        :        :       .       :   ':           :        :      :
t                    I        I                                                   t I              5        :      :        
t3  all   aa ai             I                            a I              S 1: It lt 1   I  I    O          af  aS
| ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I             I                    a                             I       I
;4  15k-~ :ee                  : 1              * I              a t              a        a,  I t  I              a      
   X   |        *                t       t                8       t~~1   * 
:5  50    r-s :"                        : '          :  -:      :       -:      -                           *   : ' 1
:s.ses.tkszus :             *:        St        t:    t:    l: t         : 2: t: 3t             22       U      5
a         ,         ,    , . , , a. . . . . a   _ _  I   I       I        I       I   _            I.      I- --I-4------- -'' '



- 60 -
ANNEX II
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                               Table 5
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
Proposed List oi New Facilities
: NtED    :                  :       STNFIUS116 HO :S                   :         '       :        :       :
:    IE6INML           LMATIM       :--          :            :STCR         S :MR-:  STAFF  uWERATW1S:IFFIMS:ST0WS:
DIRECTORATE    :                 :STAFF NM   E     ATORS FLRTS:            :'SHPS: li S    FLATS: Il)  :(I):
:                                   ::-~:----s2:----(.: {d:Il:d:                          :         :       :      :
           ~~~~:lO.'4AlEA 19dl:l6. :aRE  (dl     : 
:East Delta       Taraskour         :1:       120: 12:       960:        :300: 60:
:                 :Additimnal  assaby: 5:    600 :12:        960:                 60:               960:
::htt            ,:10:  1,200 ::              :       :      :    :         '    640:
:EI-tadi          :6:      720:                    :          :       :      :      :
:BEahrEl-aker     :5:      600:    :           :      :  60        :        :
:                 SEldfataria       :1:       120: 4:        320:        :     :    :
:EI-Abbassa       :1:      120: 14:    1,120:    B0:  40:          :
:                 :EI-Bellaha       :I:       120:8:         i0:         :  60:      :         :
:EI -Ilak 2       :4:      480:    :           :   60:  60 : 1
:                 :AhouEllbid       ::            ::             :  300: 200:
:EI-lrad          :       :       :      :        :       :     :           :    960:
::ain Kassaby     ::           :   :           :      :      :    :         :    640:
tIbrthest Delta  :Halq El-Sal       :64 .                        :       :     :                      0: 
:Middle Delta     :Drain 3          :2:      240:    :           :       :     :    :          '    640:
:                 :L. Drain 6       : 7:    840:    :            :       :     :    :          :    640:        :      :
:           ~~~~:Shae El       :6 : :                                                             0       
:                 :I~IRufia                           :    :       :      :                         640:
:KaterSaad :f3:                             360:    :           :       :     :    :                   :       : 
:                 :8ahr Tiera       :3:      360::               :       :     :    .          :        :
,Snuthest         4Ta 4dyD          : :          : 4:        320:       :      :    :          :    320:
:Delta         :Tahadyc          : :           :4:        320:        :           :         :    320:
:Lper Egypt       :asman            :b:      720 ::              :      :      :    :
'Newuayara        :  :         :10:       goo    200:        :    :         :
::neiha           ::           :   :           :      :      :              :    320:
:EI-ainia        :  :         :6:        480:        :      :                        '
:6harb aem        ::           :   :           :      :      :    :         :    320:
:                 :Sal1.a Keb1S      : :          : K            : l           :    :          :    320:
:El-Bieer         ::           :   :           :      :      :    :               320:
:A:bu Arafa       ::           :   :           :      :      :    :         :    320:
:                 S:Atia smada      ::           :   :           :      :      :    :         :    320:
:Sabah,
:Basailia/Sabaeya  '
Sueih El-Hafiz    ::           :   :          :       :      :    :         :    320:
:EI-D.ia          :  :         :4 :       320:        :      :    :         :    320:
:'iddle UWerEgypt:Luxor             t12    1,400:    :           :  250:       :460:                    :
:Abou El-ioga     :  :         :   :           :300:  200:         :        :         :         :
:rlSLMEUSRE61EIOL FRCILITIES    :           :       :       :            :                              :       :
:East Delta       :                 :  :         : 15:   1,200:  150:          :    :  5,000:  1,500: 3,000ft  5f0
:,iddle Delta                       ::           :i1:        000:       :      :    :  4,000:   1,500: 3,0:  600:
:South-vest Delta          :          :           :9:        640:        :     :         3,00     1,360: 2,000:  500:
:tIrth-ist Delta:          :                      :6:        480:       :    *:    :  3,000:   1,000: 2,000   500:
:Upper Eqypt                 :                    :4:        320:        :     :    :  3,000    1,300: 2,000: 500:
:Niddle UpperEypt:                  :             :6:        480:       :            :  2,500:   1,000: 2,000:  5:
:South UpperEqypt:                  :             : 6:       640:        :           :  2,500:   1,000: 2,000:  500:
Morkshps L. E typ:                  :  :          :   :          :       :     ;    :600:
:Nrkshops 1U. E0t:                  :  f          f   :          :       :               1,000:         :       : 5f:
:t                                 ft :    :- :--: -               1-:--- -:         ----:---:--- :-----:
:TOrn.            :                 :67:  B,OO  :135:  10,600: 1,310: 920: 730:  24,000: 1O,7<0 :16,000 :5,000
:-_   _ _ __ _ _ _                                 ft  --:__ _---:____     -:- -:-__------_:-   -:--:



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Table 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATXONS REBHILITATION PROJECT II
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training Ipput
(Staff Months)
Technical Assistance             Training
International    Local       Ovearseas  In-house
Input         Input
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Management Information System
Long-Term Input                           20          48
Short-Term Specialists                     4            -
Study for Future Requirement               4            -
including Kicro-wave Communication
Subtotal                           28           48
2. O&M_Reauirements and Cost RecoverM
Financial and Specialized Input           10            -
Land Tax, Socialogical & Agricultural    -            30
Subtotal                           1O           30
3. Strengthening MED Elect. Lab and             5
Privatization Regair/Workshon Facilities
4. Environmental Monitoring and Studies
for Primary Clarification Treatment Works
Environmental & Treatment Specialists    7            10
Monitoring Support & Lab. Tests            -        L.sum
Provision
Subtotal                            7           10
Total Technical Assistance                50          96
B. TRAINING
1. Study Tours for Senior Managers                         .            11
2. Study Tours for Professional Staff in                                77
various disciplines
3. In-house Training                                                             L. sum
pre"rision
Subtotal                                                     88



- 62 -
FN1 sLATo  _ UTLWlN  E if
FY  Type of rass          rssim           4wiVsm Niuinci ud1iq                 Otfice AM" am            Total
Eqinw    Einw        Siacilist   Input    Num       f ttts
90 To uwdite initiul        6/90      1.5                   -        1.0          1.0      1.0          4.5
Pvurugnt offowb
91 To epdmitm PruKt        11/90      2.0        -          1.5      1.5          2.0      1.5
offutitnm &
Promt .fart
Sprwisi0                5/91      2.0         1.5        -       1.0
Subtotl fw FY91                       4.0        1.5        1.5      2.5          2.0      1.5         13.0
92 Siwvisim                1191      2.0                   1.0      1.0          2.0      7,0
Surisioi                5/2       2.0         2.0        -       2.0
Sutta1   for Fm2                      4.0        2.0        1.0      3.0          2.0      2.0         14.0
-3 smvisi0                 11/92      1.5        -          1.5      1.0          2.5      2.0
Sprwisim                 5/S3     2.0         1.5        -       1.0
WAotal for F3                         3.5        1.5        1.5      2.0          2.5      2.0         13.0
94   viusiu                1193       1.5        -          1.0      1.0          2.0      1.5
Sprvisiw                S9         1.5        1.5        -       1.0
SqAl to F"                            3.0        1.5        1.0      2.0          2.0      1.5         11.0
95 sk*-Wuin                 9/        L.O        3.0        2.0      2.5         2.5       1.5
Smo,viss                n59                   1.5        -       -            1.0
sibl for FV95                         4.5        3.0        2.0      3.5         2.5       1.5         17.0
SW bwvisim                 l/5        1.5        1.5        1.0      1.0         2.0       1.5
dJvis                   596                   1.5        -       -            1.0
&Ia  far FY96                        3.0        1.5        1.0      2.0         2.0       1.5         U.0
97 9 visi.             196            1.5        -          1.0      -            1.5      1.0
w* i"               517            1.5        1.5        -       -
MIote forF"Yt                         3.0        1.5        1.0      -           1.5       1.0          I.0



ARIAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUYPINO, STATIONS REAILITATION PPOJECT II
AREA, PRODUCTION AND REVENUE IN PROJECT AREA
Crqp              Cropped     Pro  tion  Gross Economic FinanclatGrosB Revenue (LE U)
Are.(OOO fdX)M.toe)R@v.jfed.Prtic    Prices   FinancIalEconomic
Cotton                  118.2     118.2  3,517.5  3,517.0  1,333.0    157.5   415.6
were  (tong)            205.9   5,765.2    800.0    200.0   190.0    56.5    164.7
Berseem (short)         117.9    943.4    400.0   200.0   190.0        44.8    47.2
Vegetable (Bumrer)       88.4   1,591.9  3,330.0    185.0   185.0   294.5   294.5
Veetable (winter)        59.5     595.4  2,500.0    250.0   250.0    148.8    148.8
Cane (permanent)          3.9     160.3  1,230.0     30.0    37.0       5.9      4.8
Yheat                   179.3     358.6    960.0    480.0    237.0      85.0    172.1
Rice                    119.9     299.7  1,625.0    650.0   256.0      76.7   194.8
Maize                   207.6     415.3    590.0    295.0   324.0    134.5    122.S
Soyabeans                11.7      14.0    828.0    690.0    SOC.0      7.0      9.7
TOTAL                 1,112.4  10,261.9                             1,111.3  1,574.7
-'-I 
'-4H
'-



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
GROSS AND NET ECONOMIC VALUE OF PRODUCTION
Crop                Gross    Cost      Net    Total Benefit a
Revenu            Revenue   Net Rev      5.0 X
(LE/fed.)(LE/fed.)(LE/fed.)(LE mill)(LE mill)
Cotton             3,517.5    880.0  2,637.5    311.6     15.6
lerseem (long)       800.0    290.0    510.0    105.0      5.3
Berseem (short)      400.0    290.0    110.0     13.0      0.6
Vegetable (Summer) 3,330.0  1,225.0  2,105.0    186.2      9.3
Veetable (Winter) 2,500.0  1,225.0  1,275.0      75.9      3.8
Cane (permanent)   1,230.0      0.0  1,230.0      4.8      0.2
Wheat                960.0    560.0    400.0     71.7      3.6
Ries               1,625.0    600.0  1,025.0    122.9      6.1
Maize                590.0    445.0    145.0     30.1      1.5
Soyabeans            828.0   425.0   403.0        4.7      0.2
TOTAL                                                     46.3
H



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATLONS P.FMABILITATIO. -ROJECT II
EFFICIENCY
------Efficiency (without project)          . I; ....... tfflclqy (with  Joect)--.....
199           1"?            2061991                       199            am0
........................................................................................................
Oruinage                                 47              3             36             47            t2             55
Irrigutten                               4?             44            38             4?              2             ST
.........................................................................  ,.  ,.......   ......
Vithout Proelct                                                              With Project                                       Sevinglyr
.....lotal Power Cons (KIh will.)--   - Av Pur Can                        ----Total Power Conm  (Koh d l.)..... Av Pmr Cans                         -firm  pragr
I191          199            2006    1997-20                              1991           1997          2006    199r-200r
Sraimbep                                 39             43             51             47                           39             30             33             31                            15
Irrigation                               28             30             is            33                            28             22             2              23                            10
............................................................. ... .............                         .................................................                         .............
Total                                    67             73n            85             79                           67             51             57             54                           2S
W a



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
SAVINGS  IN NAINTENANCE  COSTS
Wiithout Project
----Average hours operated/unit till-----Est.Unit Av.Naint.Cost--Totst Power Cona(KIh milt)Total Cost/Yr In (1991 S) Av Cost/yr
-----(1981,/kbh  cons)-----
1991              197              2006               1M97              2006               1997              2006               1997              2006   197-2006
...............................................................................................................................................
Drainage                   89,907           109,965           143,395                    0                  0                43                51         493,745         1,242,349            868,047
Irrigation                90,491            106,460           133,075                    0                 0                30                 35         352,530           752,656            552,593
....... .......... ...................... ........................................... .............. .......................... ..   ........ 
total                                                                                                                       73                 85         846,275         1,995,00S         1,420,640
........................................ ....... ......... ...... ......... ....... ........... .. .. ........ ............. ............................................
With Project
----Average  hours operated/Lmit till-----Est.Unit Av.haint.Cost--Total  Pouer Cons(Kwh milt)Total Cost/Yr In (1991  S  Av Cost/yr                                                                       Saving/yr
-----(1981S/kwh  cons) -----                                                                                                                       -firm  program
1991            1997*               2006               1997              2006               1997              2006              1g97              2006    1997-2006
...................................  ....................  ..... ..............................................................................                                                                             .....I
Drainage                   89,907                   0          33,430             0.0015            0.0024                  30                 33           64,217           115,167            89,692                              778,355        e
Irrigation                90,491                    0          26,615             0.0015            0.0021                  22                 24          46,598             71,364            58,981                             493,612         n
....... ...........  ...................................... ................................................................. ............ ...................... ............. ........................                     .............
Total                                                                                                                       51                 57         110,815            186,531           148.673                           1,271,967
...............................................................................................................................................                                                                              .............
Ilote:  since impediately after rehabaititation, there are no operating hr,urs
cr(D



- 67 -
ANNEX III
Table 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REFABILITATION PROJECT II
FarmagAte Prices
(LE/ton)
Ecorn      Fin,
Cotton                       3517        1333
Berseem (long) *              200         190
Berseem (short) *             200         190
Vegetables (summer) **         185        185
Vegetables (winter) **         250        250
Sugarcane                      30          37
Wheat                         480         237
Rice                          650         256
Maize                         295         324
Soybeans                      690         500
-, .   . - . - _ - . - . . . -- . -- --   _ -.. -- --   _   _ -.. - . -- - . -_- .   . -..
Notes:     * Price per cutting per feddan. Long berseem is usually cut four
times while short berseem is cut only twice.
** Tomato prices have been used as a proxy for all vegetables
since tomatoes constitute the largest proportion of vegetable
production.



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Table 6
APRAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
Net Income Per Feddan
--- Economic---
Gross       Cost  &Mi
Inow              Incomet
--(LE/fd.)----
Cotton                               3517   880  2637
Berseem (long) *                      800   290   510
Berseem (short) *                     400   290   110
Vegetables (summer) **               3330  1225  2105
Vegetables (winter) **               2500  1225  1275
Sugarcane                            1230  1230   nil
Wheat                                  960   560   400
Rice                                 1625   600  1025
Kaize                                 590   445   145
Soybeans                              828   425   403
* Prices for cutting per feddan. Long berseem is usually cut four times while
short berseem is cut only twice.
** Tomato prices have been used as a proxy for all vegetables since tomatoes
constitute the largest proportion of vegetables production.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
ECNOI ANLISIS
YEA                1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    200       2006
(LE mlitltos)
INVESmtENT COST     3.1    17.6    19.8    15.8    8.0      2.5     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
NET SAV. PU0N.LOSS    0.0   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    20.3   23.t   26.0    28.9    31.8   34.7   37.6   40.5   43.4   46.3
ENlESt SAVINGS      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     3.3    3.3    3.3       3.3     3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3     3.3     3.3
PAINT. SAVINGS      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      3.3    3.3    3.3      3.3     3.3    3.3       3.3    3.3      3.3     3.3
TOTAL BENEFITS      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    26.9   29.7   32.6   35.5    38.4    41.3    ".2    47.1   50.0   52.9   l13
SET BENEFITS       (3.1)  (17.8)  (19.8)  (15.8)   (8.0)   (2.5)   26.9    29.7   32.6    35.5    38.4    41.3    ".2    47.1    50.0    52.9         0.24
0'



- 70 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 11
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING COMPONENT
Summary Terms of Reference for Various Studies
Intnod&tiojL
1.     The Government has undertaken  systematic program to rehabilitate
the aging pumping stations and upgrade its workshop facilities. This
program has been supported by an ongoing World Bank Project (Loan 2270-
EGT) launched in 1983. About 70 pumping stations would be rehabilitated
by the end of 1990, the expected completion of the first project. The
Government has requested further assistance from the Bank to continue with
the rehabilitation of additional fifty stations. The World Bank appraised
the project in October 1989 and identified a component of technical
assistance and training. The component, although a part of the project,
would be financed by USAID under their ongoing project, Irrigation
Management System (INS), with the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources. Consultant services would be required for various studies
identified under the component. The background, objective, scope of work,
estimated input and expected period for completion is detailed in the
following paragraphs for following four studies:
(a) Future needs and/or expansion of the Management Information
System (MIS) and linking the Mechanical and Electrical
Department (MED) offices over the national network of
microwave telecommunication;
(b) Assessment of MED electrical laboratories capacity, its future
needs for additional equipment, staffing and training. Survey
to assess capacity of private workshops for carrying out some
of routine repair work and/or maintenance currently undertaken
by MED;
(c) Monitoring the quality of industrial and domestic waste flow
discharged to Lake Maryut and Abu Keir drain and recommend
solutions to improve the quality of flow being pumped by El
Max and El Tabya pumping stations near Alexandria; and
(d) A study to determine total operation and maintenance cost for
various irrigation and drainage facilities, extending from
High Aswan Dam to the lowest public irrigation lateral or
drain, assess current budgeting shortfalls, land tax
attributable to irrigation and drainage facilities, various
mechanisms to recover O&M cost from the beneficiaries and
their capacity to pay.



- 71 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 11
A. Management Information System anu Microwave Telecommunication
2.     Background:  A computerized MIS has been established under the
first project to assist MED in operation and maintenance of systems,
improve accounts and store inventory system. The computer equipment (HP
minis and micro computers) are being installed and within two years, the
system should be able to meet most of MED's critical requirements. The
system will provide inter alia, a managed pump stations operating and
maintenance system; a building and structure maintenance system; a cost,
budget and accounting system; and a personnel and payroll system. ORASCOM
is the main contractor for supply and installation of hardware,
development of ralevant software, establishment of base data for the
system and training of MED staff. Egypt Iron and Steel assists ORASCOM as
a subcontractor in all efforts. A panel of experts headed by a local
coordinator (computer specialist) has been assisting MED initially in the
preparation of technical specifications for various components of the MIS,
analysis of proposals by various manufacturers ard the award of the
contract. The panel is financed by UNDP and continues to assist MED and
guide the contractor in development of the system and training of staff.
The technical assistance provided by the panel is only through periodic
visits.
3.     MED staff currently working on the computerization program does not
have a professional background in the field of Information Systems
Management, programming or system analysis. Training provided by ORASCOM
will enable MED staff to run the system. However, due to lack of computer
specialization, MED staff will not be able to modify the system or
incorporate changes. For these reasons there is a need of a long-term
specialized input. After a year of operation, there is also a need to
assess MIS hardware and software requirements, future training needs and
various options for linking via telecommunication the various centers.
4.     Objective:  The primary objective of the specialized input is to
train MED professional staff in technical details of both hardware and
software which would enable them to run the system independently and
effectively after a complete handover of the system by ORASCOM. The
objective of the study to be undertaken in early 1992 would be to assess
additional equipment and training needs for the computerization of MED
system, connectivity/integration to the other computer systems installed
in the Ministry and options for establishing a micro-wave
telecommunication system.
5.     Scope of Work:  Following will be the scope of work for the
specialist and a local coordinator specialized in computers:
(a) Assist in the advisory capacity the Director General of MIS
General Directorate in technical matters;



- 72 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 11
(b) Withir. two months of appointment, review the situation of
organization, staffing, hardware equipment, software,
effective use of the system, analysis of various systems, flow
of information at various levels and identify additional
requiremeints with recommendations for improvements. Prepare a
detailed operation schedule;
(c) Establish a detailed trainlng program for various levels of
staff and initiate training of staff both on one-to-one basis
and through organized classroom efforts;
(d) Assist MED in the preparation of technical specifications for
new hardware and software to be procured including evaluation
of proposals and award of contracts;
(e) Develop procedures for modification of core MIS databases and
programs and train selective senior staff for such
modification;
(f) Review computer systems and software used by various agencies
within the Ministry of Public Works and develop procedures
and/or hardware and software for the integration of the MED
systems with the other systems in the Ministry;
(g) Assist in the study of future requirements assessment through
collection of basic information for the study and
participation;
(h) At the end of first long-term stay, prepare a status report
with recommendations for activities to be carried out by MIS
staff for the next year. During periodic visits, r:,iew
status of previously recommended activities and prepare a plan
for the next six months.
6.     Following will be the scope of study to assess future needs and
requirements:
(a) Computer assisted software engineering (CASE) study to review
the existing information systems and to clearly document and
identify additional information systems and corresponding
database needed for all levels of MED;
(b) Assess the requirement for the additional hardware, software,
telecommunication hardware and software -o create a data
communications network for linking all MED offices and major
pumping stations with the Cairo Center. Various options,
including linkage with national microwave network, would be
presented;
(c) Evaluation of MIS staff skills to identify additional training



- 73 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 11
requirements for MIS staff including courses that can be
conducted in Egypt as well as those that require overseas
training and study skills; and
(d) Linkage and/or adaptability of MED computer with others within
MPW or other GOE agencies would also be considered.
7.     Estimated Input and Completion Schedule:  The specialist should
have a minimum experience of ten years in large scale integrated MIS
implementation, working experience with software engineering
methodologies, specifically computer assisted software. Engineering
specific experience in HP minicomputers desirable and candidate should
have working knowledge of Arabic. Total input of 20 staff-months would be
split into an initial stay of 12 months, followed by four to six weeks
visits twice a year for next 3 years. The consultant is expected to start
the assignment by June/July 1991 and complete the total input by June/July
1995. Provision is also made for 48 staff-months of a local coordinator
(computer specialist) to work with MED on a full-time basis for first
three years and part-time for next two years startinig in June/July 1991
witl. completion of assignment by June 1996. The coordinator should have a
minimum of five years experience in large-scale computer system preferably
HP mini-computer, and a working experience with computer-assisted software
engineering used by MED.
8.     A provision of 8 staff-months is made for the assessment study with
input of expertise in the field of Computer Assisted Software, Microwave
Telecommunication and Information and Computer Technology training. MED
would assign relevant senior staff working on MIS to work with consultants
during the course of study. Local coordinator specialized in computers
would also assist the consultants in carrying out the study. Study is
expected to be initiated in June/July 1992 and completed within three
months.
B. Assessment of MED Electrical Laboratories and Privatization of Some
Workshop Activities
9.     Background:  MED has an extensive network of Workshops and
Electrical Laboratories to carry out all repairs (major and minor) for
pumps, motors, transformers, switchgears and all other equipment. Routine
and minor maintenance and repairs are often carried out at the pumping
station, with more involved work being undertaken at the central workshops
and electrical laboratories. Vsese facilities have been significantly
strengthened under the first project (Ln. 2270-EGT). Further improvements
are proposed under the project particularly workshop facilities, provision
of standard basic tools and electrical testing equipment for about 200
stations, 14 light mobile workshops/electrical laboratories to carry out a
complete range of tests on equipment in substations (66/11 KV) including
switchgears, transformers, motors and various panels. The ongoing and
proposed project had focussed more on workshops than electrical
laboratories, so the subsequent operations should focus on future



- 74 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 11
requirements of the electrical laboratories for tools, testing equipments,
spare parts, staffing and training.
10.    Because of limited foreign exchange allocations for imports and
some of the equipment being more than 20 years old, the workshops have to
improvise often making simple spare parts themselves. Although privately
operated workshops for minor repairs or foundry work are limited in Egypt,
these are available in bigger cities. There is a possibility that some of
the repairs can be carried out by private workshops on contractual basis.
The study would identify such facilities, their capacity and discuss
advantages and disadvantages of privatizing such repair work.
11.    Objective:  The objective of the study is to assess future
requirements of electrical laboratories of MED and explore the
possibilities of contracting some of the repair works now carried out by
MED workshops.
12.    Scope of Work:  Following will be the scope of work:
(a) Review the present conditions of all electrical laboratories
of MED with particular emphasis on the central laboratories
located at Mahmodia, Mansovra, Minya and Komambo. The review
would cover the present capabilities, condition of existing
plant and equipment, staffing and skills mix of present staff;
(b) Establish requirements for additional plant and equipment,
including mobile high voltage testing laboratories, with
estimated cost and basic technical specifications for such
equipment;
(c) recommend any changes in the organization or skill mix and a
detailed program for staff training;
(d) carry out a brief survey of facilities available in the
private sector for repairs and overhaul of pumps, electrical
equipment and foundry etc. for manufacture of unavailable
spare parts;
(e) carefully review works wiich can be contracted out in the
private sector with full discussion of merits and demerits of
such shift; and
(f) establish an action plan to achieve private sector
participation with recommendations to simplify procedures,
assistance on credit basis for import of equipment needed by
such private workshops.
13.    Esti,mated Input and Completion Schedule:  A provision of 5 staff-
months of expatriate and 8 staff-months of local specialists is made to
carry out t.he study. The expertise required would be in the field of



- 75 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 11
electrical laboratories and workshop operations. MED would assign
relevant senior staff from the central workshops and laboratories to work
with the consultants particularly in the survey of facilities available in
the private sector. Study is expected to be initiated in June/July 1992
and completed within three months.
C. Monitoring of effluent quality and study to improve guality of flow
reaching El Max and El Tabya Pumping Stations
14.    Background:  El Max and El Tabya Stations pump heavily polluted
water. El Tabya has a heavy solids concentration, some surface oil, much
trash and garbage, and a heavy chemical load from paper companies,
especially Rakta Paper Mill. It is estimated that industrial waste
discharged by the Rakta and National Paper Mills contribute about 20
percent of volume of water ptwned by the El Tabya station and other
industries located along the Abu-Keir drain discharge another 15 percent.
The largest and most immediate pollution problem is caused by these two
paper mills. Rakta Paper is a chemical pulping and paper-making plant.
It has two pulp mills using rice straw and other pulp materials without
pulp liquor recovery. All wastewater from Rakta is discharged within one
km of El Tabya station except wate- from one of the two pulp mills which
is discharged directly into the sea. The effluent to the Abu-Keir drain
is heavily polluted with chemical and pulping mill and paper-making
wastewater containing chemicals, solids and dissolved organics such as
lignin. National Paper is a mechanical pulping mill and paper making
plant. The raw materials are rice husk pulp and scrap paper, and the
effluent is heavily polluted with solids.  Recommendations have been made
that primary clarification of Rakta and National Paper waste water is
essential. In case of Rakta paper, wastewater from the original pulp mill
and papermaking operations will require pumping to combine with second
pulp mill and then, after clarification, would be discharged directly into
Abu Keir bay.  This solution would reduce the flow now being pumped at El                r
Tabya station and significantly reduce the corrosion problem which has
damaged pumps in the past. National Paper effluent after primary
clarification will continue to be discharged to the Abu-Keir drain. This
would require moniuoring for one year of the quality of the flow and a
detailed study of the various alternatives for primary clarification at
both paper mills.
15.    El Max pumping station has solids, some surface oil, many weeds and
large municipal and industrial discharges. Approkimately 15 to 20 percent
of volume of water pumped by the El Max station comes from the city of
Alexandria and industrial sources. The principal industrial pollution at
El Max station is the discharge of industrial effluent to Lake Maryut
which ultimately passes through the El Max Pumping station. The
industries discharge their effluent through East and West treatment plants
as well as directly to the lake from the Moharrem Bay Industrial Complex.
There are also additional discharges to Lake Maryut from the Alexandria
and Amrya petroleum refineries.  The Alexandria Master Plan includes
provisions to transpJrt Moharrem-Bay waste to the West treatment plant,



- 76 -
Annex IV
Page 7 of 11
which is located closer to El Max station. Both East and West treatment
plants are under construction and are expected to be in operation some
time in 1992. These plants will provide only primary clarification of
municipal and industrial flow. It is possible, however, that these
treatment plants may result in more wastes )eing discharged into Lake
Maryut closer to the El Max Station and that the quality of water to be
pumped at the El Max station which is already low, may deteriorate
further, leading to serious corrosion problem. Because of these
uncertainties, a long-term monitoring plan is required starting in May
1990 until at least two years after the Alexandria primary clarification
treatment plants are completed. A detailed study would be needed at the
end of 1993 to assess the need for further actions tf: itmprove the quality
of the water in Lake Maryut and at the El Max pumping scations.
16.    It is proposed to separate the monitoring efforts from studies.
Evaluation of the monitoring results could be carried out by a local firm
or the University of Alexandria which has laboratory facilities to test
samples and experts for analysis. These arrangements could be worked out
between MED and University of Alexandria and/or a private firm. The final
report of monitoring with analysis and preliminary recommendations would
then be used in the studies. The studies would develop needed treatment
and control alternatives to improve the quality of water being pumped at
El Tabya and El Max pumping stations.
These studies include developing recommended control solutions, costs and
implementation schedules.
17.    Obiective:  The primary objective of monitoring of flow quality and
further treatment is to improve the quality of water pumped at the two
pumping stations. This would improve the health hazard situation created
by the industrial and domestic waste in a densely populated area.
18.    ScoRe of Work:  Following will be the scope of monitoring
activities:
(a) The consultants would review the existing material available
on the volume and quality of effluents being discharged by
various industries and domestic waste into the Abu Keir drain
and Lake Maryut. Particular attention should be given to
Rakta (including discharges into Abu-Keir Bay and from
papermills), major municipal discharges into Lake Maryut, and
other discharges near El Max and El Tabya stations. From this
review, major pollution points would be identified, limiting
total observation points to be about twenty, ter along and
near the Abu-Keir drain and another ten along LaKe Maryut;
(b)  For the identified points, a dc.ailed work program will be
prepared to obtain samples at a regular fortnightly interval;
(c) In order to relate the quality of water from various samples
to the discharge in the lake or Abu Keir drain, rating curves



- 77 -
Annex IV
Page 8 of 11
and flow gauges would be established;
(d) 24 hour composite samples for flow will be taken at the
identified locations. Quantity of flow entering the drain or
lake and total flow in the drain and lake would also be
recorded;
(e) Samples would be analyzed for pH, turbidity, settleable
solids, total solids, dissolved solids, volatile solids,
chlorides, sulphates, alkalinity, hardness, oil and grease,
dissolved oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand and chemical
oxygen demand;
(f) Results of sample analysis with technical comments on changes
compared to previous quarter will be reported in a quarterly
report;
(g) Sampling and analysis and flow measurement would be initiated
as soon as possible but not later than March 31, 1991 and
continue for about 18 months at Abu-Keir drain and at El Max
and Lake Maryut, a minimum of one year after the commissioning
of West Treatment plant now under construction;
(h) Final report for Abu-Keir drain will be presented 21 months
after initiation of sampling and would also include an
evaluation of the pollution problem at El Tabya and
recommended solution to the pollution problem for various
industries (including Rakta and National Paper) along the
drain. Final report for Laka Maryut will be submitted sixteen
months after commissioning of West treatment plant and would
include an evaluation of the pollution problem at El Max and
recommendations for further treatment or control methods for
discharges into the lake.
19.    Following will be the scope of studies:
(a) Careful review of data and analysis produced by the monitoring
consultants;
(b) alternative solutions with preliminary layouts for primary
clarification of effluent from R:akta and National paper Mills;
(c) alternative solutions with preliminary layouts for additional
treatment or controls for discharges into Lake Maryut,
including further treatment for the effluent discharged fr%.m
the West treatment plant;
(d) Survey of the areas proposed for treatment including
investigation of availability of lands; and



- 78 -
Annex IV
Page 9 of 11
(e)  estimated capital and operation,'maintenance costs and
implementation schedule for the recommended solution.
20.    Estimated Input and ComDletion Schedule:  Lump sum provision has
been made in local currency for the monitoring work. A provision of seven
staff-months of expatriate and ten staff-months of local specialists is
made to carry out studies related to both pumping stations. The expertise
required would be in the field of environmental health and treatment
works. Studies related to El Tabya station will be initiated after
completion of monitoring work around April 1992 and completed within three
months. Studies related to El Max station will be initiated 18 months
after commissioning of the West treatment plant.
D. Operation and Maintenance Cost. Budgetary Provisions and Recovery from
Beneficiaries
21.    Background:  The operation and maintenance facilities for the
irrigation and drainage system in Egypt are complex, extending from the
High Aswan Dam (HAD) to the lower level public irrigation lateral or
drain. These facilities include HAD, Nile River and its branches in the
Delta, barrages downstream of HAD, irrigation canals from major conveyance
channels to the distributory lateral, open drains, outfall structures,
subsurface drainage system, irrigation and drainage system.  Similarly,
about twelve departments and authorities operate and maintain these
facilities with some overlap. In some cases a facility such as HAD and
Nile River has multiple beneficiaries. Various studies on O&M
expenditures and past budget provisions exist, but there has been little
attempt to determine consolidated figure of annual operation and
maintenance needs which will meet the requirement of all agencies and
facilities mer;-ioned above.  Similarly, land tax is the only avenue the
Government has to tax various agriculture beneficiaries. Currently, land
tax rates used are adequate to cover only a fraction of current
expenditures related to O&M. This modest recovery through land tax was
appropriate, when farmers were heavily taxed through distorted farmgate
prices. Recent reform has resulted in sectoral prices that are now near
their economic values as output prices have been decontrolled (except for
cotton, rice and sugarcane) and a gradual input price liberalization is
being implemented.
22.    Given the new production environment and prevailing and expected
fiscal constraints, it is important to identify and implement an improved
cost recovery system. In order to better understand the recurrent cost
requirements associated with providing irrigation and drainage and to
assist in identifying methods of introducing more cost recovery into the
system, the MPW is expected to assemble data on budgets and undertake a
study assisted by consultants on O&M requirements, alternate cost
collection methods including the beneficiaries ability to absorb more of
the cost. As O&M budgets are currently divorced from physical O&M



- 79 -
Annex IV
Page 10 of 11
requirements, the study will focus on minimum operation and maintenance
programs.
23.    Objective:  The broad objective of the study is to establish
recurrent cost requirements for operation and maintenance of various
irrigation and drainage facilities and explore various mechanisms to
recover such cost from the beneficiaries.
24.    ScoUe of Work:  Following will be the scope of work:
(a) Review the present organization and procedures of various
departments and authorities associated with operation and
maintenance of total irrigation and drainage system to
determine associated cost. This would require some analysis
to separate costs associated with providing water for sectors
such as power, navigation, flood control and fisheries, etc.;
(b) Cost elements will be derived from physical operation and
maintenance programs and coefficients.  For example, major
maintenance estimates will be based on sustained program needs
for dredging, weeding and other physical elements. Similarly
routine maintenance requirements for spares, lubricants, etc.
will be based on sectoral norms. Also, operational needs for
fuel, electricity etc. will be estimated. Cost coefficients
will then be applied to the physical factors;
(c) To determine shortfalls and effect of such shortfalls on the
quality of services and condition of facilities. Budgetary
provisions by line item, over last-five years will be
collected;
(d) Discussion of current land tax system including revenues
collected from beneficiaries over last five years;
(e) Assess a realistic cost of water according to the area, crops
and water consumption for the total cost requirements
determined under (b) above. Analyze the incremental burden of
such cost, beneficiaries have to carry as percent of
incremental benefits derived by farmers since liberalization
of price policies and decontrol;
(f) Analyze various mechanisms to recover the cost from
beneficiaries with recommendations of an appropriate method
which will be socially and politically acceptable; and
(g) Outline a detailed action plan for gradual and phased
implementation of the recommended mechanism.



- 80 -
Annex IV
Page 11 of 11
25.    Estimated Input and Completion Schedule:  A provision of ten staff-
months of expatriate and about 30 staff-months of local expertise is made.
The expertise required would be in the field of financial analysis,
economics, operation and maintenance with local input for agriculture,
land taxation system, sociologist and collection of data for areas
irrigated and/or drained with number of beneficiaries and types of crops
grown including on-farm incomes of the farmers. MPW is expected to
assemble basic data over a period of about three to four months starting
in August 1990. Consultants would use the basic data collected by MPW and
initiate its services in the beginning of 1991, so as to complete the
report by June 30, 1991.



- 81 -
ANNEX V
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS PAiABILITATION PROJECT II
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Background Reports
1.    Operations and Maintenance of Pumping Stations in the selected pilot
area of the Beheira Province by Lahmeyer International Consultants of
West Germany with Annexes in two volumes June 1986.
2.    Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II, Preparation
Report, prepared by FAO/CP, main text and Annexes August 1-4, 1989.
Staff Working Paners
1.    Cost Tables
2.    Electro-Mechanical Aspects (David Field, Consultant), November, 1989.
3.    Environmental Aspects for El Tabya and El Max Pumping Stations (James
Gallup, Consultant), October, 1989
4.    Management Information System



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT 11
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER RESOURCES
Organizatior Chart
MPW
MINISTER'S
MINISTER               OFFICE AFFAIRS
IRRIGATIoN            HIGHEDAMFINANCE AND                                                                                   SUPREME
PUBLC SECTOR      _      IRESEARCH                                                PAR                ADMNISTRATION          COUNCIL FOR
ALTOIYAUTHORITYCNR                                                                   MN             DEPARnIENT              TRANING
...   ._    l                 l                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~OD
DRAINAGE              COASTAL                WRVEY                            MECHANICAL            BUDGET AND               MPW
AUTHORITY           PROTEACTION             AUTH Y                            a ELECTRICAL _         ACCOUNTS             COORDINATION
EPADP               AUTHORITY                                               DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT             COMMTTEE
| IRRIGATION
D EPARTIUENT 
C-)
HORIZONTAL_-
ADMINISTRATION         DAMS &G               IRRIGATION          MNLE WATER        |EXPANSION AN
I   FINANE                                  SECTOR      |        SECTOR               PROJECTS
SECTOR                                                          SECTOR                             C4



ARAB REPUBLVC OF EGYPT
PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT 11
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Organization Chart
POC, COORIATYO                   PROJFCT COOINATION                         H O    O
At INP5RiCZCAII1           ,       Ch    U rEE          ,                   FlATET_                                                                 GIECTORATE
* Chairoaron-Ffrdt UjS MED
M,rtmra: IMrIg. D.PL, EPADP.                                                                                      DIRECTaOltE
MOI.O _A. MED C.DIECTORATEST                                                                                             a 
PEAEJUATS                             C     LE                          AL                                                                              -  -  ID TOR-
& FlnnncP      z Dir~~~~~. Gn.  .1  . . . a, IL t 
DIENRAL^GNRL__ECTORATE                           ||DRCTORATE                                       1      - - GEEA-  EEA   9E s;   nr  
ARRA_GTEMENT9    O                          DIRECTORATER |D|R A                                                         I      A.                ___
Uppam. rDit. Gan.  (1 1* Dir. Gem,  (1)'
DIRECTORATE ~ ~   ~ DIIRECTEORATRCTRAEE                                  LGED
Prjct- s        Projetsd nd  r                                                 <        |o  Financiad                  nltao | Uii
cob"d  , DESIGNUATION
ADDpNA EgpttafrfingW UPUS                                                                   ffi
STAFF    " GENERAL  '    'DI: Gnn.   13)'
Ir.En3r.t   '' DIRECTORATE '                                                              DIRECTORATEU
,,,~~~~ ~  .cw _ _                     a  .g--  m                                                                          ,t
Work    SPOIAatim(MS                                                       m         lseusU   ob
ADMOA  - - - .            -   -    - -                    -        - - -                                                  v.l pcp
STAFF                ENERAL       'i e.safn
CEltrtAL       ,GEN.DIR.CIVL WORKS'    UiETRT         *      DIR.MIS                *          'GEN.DIR. CIVIL WORKS'     lETF4T    ,         DRI 
DRNECTORATES       'DIr. Gang.2  (Actg                       UnPER_i t MgIT E  'UkM|Er 1141
---''mad            ,St.EnWJArdr.   (2) i  P. STAl IONSOAM    P. Syul3Ana3 y  2H .E
*   iGS    D' MIVILWOOK      CVLORSeaVLOK .                            CVLOK CETA  .GNZRCIVILWORKS    CiELO KS  CIVLWOK I          i             t 
r   T Tah. 2,Tzs      ,   (NTeutdl *2 'T.clrrdln t2:F       t g       ,  hs      43   T             IS, M                   2       =s    2       =. t3
CEGINAL         EE.LB          O.MSOS        RGOA            EINL         RGDGAL                 L       REGIONALAE  IF MS    DIECORACTE DECOR ATE    WORK MSHOS  EE.LS
DIRAICTRTES D T                                                          DE              DREC     E   DIRECTORATE |  (Ac
Env     2)      UPPER EGYPT      EGY2                                                            LOERETP
(Elg HMiny)    (NgHMiiadl)    (Kmr)aara                   KfaE           .(=aar        (annor
MIS       * ' MiS       sCVLWRK Teh       C  Tc  C       WVLOK  T chLW  3    *C,VIW TRcK  CWVLWch  4 ' 'CILWOK Teh       ' CVLWORcS 3* U       ,ht
-- - - - - - - - - -                    T. --                            -         -  -  -r -   -  -  -  -  -   -       - - - - - - - -  -
.T.    .  --     -          '.. - -  - - - - --   -  I
ElSICIALAS    WORKSHOPS    DSPRECTORTS.   DiSRECTORT-   DIRSECTORATS                                     REG [ IONAL    INSTRT&  |
bFtHt)                            (3)           (4)
MISh(8'.d.(MISISod.).MVLo                                                              CIVILTW~ 3~   MITeh   KS:MT   -CIVILWORK ~'ICeIVILORK  mTes  MIS ec. 
        '' C..Tc.  4) *YTc.   ' C..ec.   '  CT.ac,4  'C.WTer.  4' 'CEnTach  5)'~ 'C.Tah                                      *MSMI
.7-  TC;.EX  I  11: C.                                                                                            C-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,cht466
T=-                     T=        12:T,L  i. Egk2.El.                                            E.~       ()J:



ilP                                    312                                     3
A         -i    i e  r cr e  rn                  o
ee Dei t
ee           ee      e
e8  e      @e                       ee                              .           PortS 
Karl'ar         e                                                              P9 9W
e           oalsh.lk, ee 9                                      -                                      :
e                         9o8  e 4Dochr<EIMeneouro    99e                             '                       .   -                                  O Pl
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
e-  eh /  e   e  ec                           PUMPING STATIONS
\O,e o                  Tt*                     e                                              REHABILITArION PROJECT 11*
\  e  a.  e  \   _   _ c lkya  *   Droineer/DIniga_tan Mioje
P_aP'ng Stoio-
8                                                rrgtinPunpipor Stati-n
9     8 e e G   e   Droin-  Pumping StWti=ne
A     looing P-otp SWation
Groor                    /   \ ffi *   Central Dinreoote OAcco
+4ud  VR    fi                 /                    \> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in,        U   Regional Dirnetbrcte OrFicen
\  9   @       ~~~~e                                                                0    T-wn
M\_- o  Roe=
C                  Coso.iose Rood -;.---   Major Riner
30-                                                                                                                             9 WCAIRO  Notional CopIral
v Y   21t                                    e   ez             -In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tMernoRnaOl Boundaries
/ ) /) \, *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omletsconstnonsrnotao
IC_vif         0   I 0  20  30 40  50
KIILOMElOS
oo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
+ gr 32' \I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oZefareooct
WEIFo;rUm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Porn rSaS'3-  sretfaga
29-
29, ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    8
// ~~~~~~~~~~~-26-                            Hommcdi                                                   0'.1
00~ ~~~~~0
(            EtC Minyoai28 n                                                                                    tit ot
-28                                                                                                               Q  2 
ARAB~~~~~
4      REPUBLIC                     -27                                 2
i        F                                                                                                                Ai@ @f     
OP                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~241
EGYPT                                                                                                                         H, .
5 !'                      O-P          3-    3t- 5;i ra a o3
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                            333-d



