Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18808
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LN. 3198-EGT)
February 8, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =      Egyptian Pound
LE 1.0         =      US$0.30
US$1.0                LE 3.39
LE             =       100 Piasters (PT)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Egyptian and/or Metric Unit          English/US Unit
1 feddan (fd)                 =      1.038 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fd)                 =      0.420 hectares
I hectare (ha)                =      2.380 feddan (fd)
1 kilometer (Cm)              =      0.621 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                   =      3.281 feet (ft)
1 metric ton (mt)             =      0.984 long (ton)
1 gram (g)                    =      0.035 ounces (oz)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DCW             Directorate of Civil Works
DRI             Drainage Research Institute
EPADP           Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
EU              European Union
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GOE             Government of Egypt
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
ILO             International Labor Organization
IMS             Irrigation Management System
KfW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Bank for International Development Financing)
MED             Mechanical and Electrical Department
MIS             Management Information Systems
MPWWR           Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PSRP I          First Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
PSRP II         Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
PSRP III        Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
TA              Technical Assistance
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President              Kemal Dervis
Sector Director             Doris Koehn
Sector Leader               Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader            Tijan M. Sallah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................    i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Objectives                     .3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project            7
D. Project Sustainability                     .7
E. IDA Performance                           .8
F. Borrower Performance                        .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                        .8
H. Key Lessons Learned                        .9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments ........................1..................  1
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................  13
Table 3:     Project Timetable ..........................................   15
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   15
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................  16
Table 6:     Studies Included in Project ..........................................  17
Table 7A:   Project Costs ..........................................        18
Table 7B:   Project Financing ............     ..............................  19
Table 8:     Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................   19
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants ........................... ...............  20
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................   22
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Missions .... ......................................  23
ANNEXES
A. ICR Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C. Economic Re-Evaluation
D. Government's Comments on ICR
MAP: IBRDNo. 22037
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3198-EGT)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project for which Loan 31 98-EGT in the amount of US$31 million equivalent was
approved on May 15, 1990 and made effective on October 11, 1991. Project effectiveness was
delayed by more than one year after Board because of delays in Government ratification of the
Loan Agreement. Despite delays in effectiveness and a slow start-up in the first two years of
project implementation, the project was able to make up rapidly for the lost time supported by a
positive change in the management of the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the
Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources. The loan closed on September 15, 1998 after
being granted two extensions from its original closing date of December 31, 1997.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Tijan M. Sallah (ICR Task Team Leader) and Matthias
Schlund (Agricultural Economist), and reviewed by Ms. Doris Koehn, Director; Mr. Salah
Darghouth, Sector Leader; Rural Development, Water and Environment Department, and Mr.
Richard Westin, Headquarters Manager, Egypt Department. The Government of Egypt provided
comments on the report which are appended as Annex D to the ICR.
3.    The dialogue with the staff of the project implementing agency, the MED, took place in
March and November 1998 and included Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi (Principal Irrigation Engineer and
Task Team Leader for the project) who has reviewed the ICR and provided helpful comments.
The ICR is based on material in the project files, discussions with Borrower representatives in the
MED and the Project Task Team Leader, field visits to project sites, and project data provided by
the MED. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing a formal evaluation report of the
project, which is included as Annex B to the ICR.



-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198-EGT)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   Egypt's survival depends on the water resources of the Nile river for its irrigated
agriculture. The Nile water system provides Egypt with 55.5 billion cubic meters of water
annually, which is diverted to irrigation canals through gravity command regulated by
barrages and/or through pumping stations. Given Egypt's flat topography, pumping stations
play a critical role in lifting water levels to ensure a continuous and adequate gravity flow to
meet the requirements of an intensive agricultural system in which cropping intensities
average about 200%. Egypt's irrigation and drainage sub-sectors have substantially benefited
from several World Bank operations. The Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project is
the eighth World Bank-supported project in the Irrigation and Drainage sub-sector. It was
preceded by five drainage projects, one channel maintenance project, and one irrigation
pumping stations rehabilitation project. At present, the National Drainage Project and
Irrigation Improvement Project, both financed jointly by the World Bank and the German
KfW, are under implementation, and a new irrigation/drainage project, the Third Pumping
Stations Rehabilitation Project, also co-financed by the IBRD and KfW, was approved by the
Board of the World Bank and is in the process of being approved by the Board of KfW, and
is expected to become effective in March 1999.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project were to: (i)
avoid future declines in yields and agricultural production, which would occur if the PSR II
rehabilitation works were not carried out; (ii) reduce the operation and maintenance costs of
the pumping stations with related beneficial effects on the Government's recurrent budget;
and (iii) strengthen the institutional capability of the Mechanical and Electrical Department
(MED).
3.    The above objectives were to be achieved through: (i) rehabilitation of about 50
pumping stations (through a firm and an indicative program) serving 850,000 feddans and
benefiting about 560,000 small-holders; (ii) strengthening 14 workshops and electrical
laboratories with functional equipment; (iii) carrying out civil work construction for
pumping stations, workshops, stores, offices and staff housing; (iv) strengthening the
Management Information System (MIS) at MED; and (v) provision of technical assistance.



4.    A number of legal covenants were agreed upon in support of project objectives,
directed at ensuring operational decentralization (a phased plan to transfer to beneficiaries
the operational responsibility for booster pumps, wells, etc.); timely reporting; physical
monitoring of the quality of flows at various discharge points; and adequacy of staffing at
various directorates. Out of the 16 legal covenants, 13 have been fully complied with; with
only two partially complied with and one covenant experiencing delayed compliance.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project succeeded in substantially achieving its appraisal targets. The SAR
envisaged the rehabilitation of 26 pumping stations under the firm program and 25 pumping
stations under the indicative program serving 850,000 feddan. Criteria for selection
depended on the performance of the stations, the age of their equipment, the frequency of
repairs and the lack of stand-by capacity.  The number of pumping stations in the firm
program was revised from 26 to 19 because some of the stations were financed through
alternative available financing due to project start-up delays. However, of the remaining 19
pumping stations in the firm program, all 19 were rehabilitated (i.e., 16 were reconstructed as
entirely new stations and 3 were rehabilitated).
6.    As for the indicative program, the project rehabilitated 27 pumping stations (which
exceeded the appraisal target of 25 pumping stations). In fact, the indicative program far
exceeded appraisal expectations with a further 24 pumping stations, which were effectively
serviced with spare parts under the project. The increase in the number of stations covered
under the project came from the flexible design of the indicative program which allowed the
realization of low-cost technical solutions (.e.g., spare parts provision as opposed to
complete rehabilitation) and the reordering of priorities as stations which had unexpected
breakdowns received higher priority. As a result, the actual command area benefiting from
the project (i.e., 1.47 million feddans) exceeded the appraisal target of 850,000 feddans by
some 73%. If the benefits from spare parts provision under the project are included, then a
further 500,000 feddans benefited from the project, bringing the total area to have benefited
from the project interventions to about 2 million feddans (more than 20% of Egypt's total
cultivated area).
7.    The project strengthened some 7 modified workshops (against the appraisal target of
14 light mobile workshops) and, because of insufficiency of funds, this was procured under
the National Drainage project. It completed 4 central electrical laboratories and workshops
(against the 6 which were envisaged) and substantially provided mechanical trash rack
cleaning equipment, as well as electrification of several of the implemented cranes. The
floating dock at Aswan was repaired. The project also far exceeded the appraisal targets in
the provision of tools and testing instruments which improved substantially MED's
operations and maintenance work. In short, the strengthening of directorates, workshops,
and laboratories, together with rehabilitation and supply of new equipment for the pumping
stations is not only reducing MED's O&M costs but is improving efficiency by some 20-
30%.



- iii -
8.   In addition, the project has successfully implemented civil works to eliminate the
backlog of pump house structures responding to the unique needs of each station. The
Directorate of Civil Works (DCW) substantially completed all the programmed civil works,
such as construction of staff housing at pumping stations sites, office accommodations,
operators quarters, workshops and stores. All these were financed through the local budget.
The civil works, especially the construction of staff facilities in remote areas, will have
important development impact by attracting skilled staff to remote areas and encouraging
their retention, and contributing to ongoing O&M works and thereby promoting the
sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system.
9.    On the institutional front, the project achieved its appraisal target of supplying
hardware, software and training to MED staff at headquarters and field directorates. The
MIS has been implemented and is working, connecting MED directorates, inspectorates and
major pumping stations with the national network. MED has installed water level sensors on
almost 90% of its pumping stations, of which about 30 stations have been linked to the
national telemetry system of the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR),
which has been financed under the USAID-financed Main System Management Project.
There is still scope for improvement in using the system not only as a data collection tool but
as an effective management tool to facilitate daily activities and to improve decision making.
Some of these concerns are being addressed in the newly-approved Third Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project.
10.   Substantial training of MED staff took place under the project at the MPWWR
training center, and four staff of MED received training over 4 months on equipment
procurement management at the ILO International Training Center in Turin, Italy. Also,
under each pumping station rehabilitation contract, overseas training of MED staff by
pumping equipment suppliers were included. These training have improved MED's
effectiveness in implementing procurement.
11.   Although the project experienced delays in effectiveness and some start-up delays, it
quickly made up for the lost time, which was further helped by positive changes which
occurred with the senior management of MED.
12.   The project outcome has been satisfactory in the first years of implementation and
highly satisfactory in the last two years of implementation. The recalculated ERR for the
project based on actual field data is 22% (as compared to 24% at appraisal). This is based on
incremental benefits and costs in the firm program only; however, when net incremental
benefits from both the firm and indicative program were included in the context of a
sensitivity analysis, the ERR for the project was 27%, and indeed substantially higher than
what was envisaged at appraisal, which confirms the viability of the project.
13.   The investments in pumping stations also are likely to be sustainable as they help in
reducing O&M costs and consequently reducing the government's fiscal burden.
Government is also committed to operating and maintaining these pumping stations as they
are critical to the survival of Egyptian agriculture. Moreover, the decentralization and



-iv -
strengthening of field directorates and workshops will improve O&M services and contribute
to the longevity of these pumping stations.
14.   The Bank's performance has been satisfactory in that it provided timely supervision,
professional advice and close coordination with MED. The Bank's presence also had the
positive effect of galvanizing support from other donors to fund pumping stations
rehabilitation under MED's supervision.
15.   Apart from initial loan ratification and project start-up delays, the Borrower's
performance has, also, been satisfactory. Implementation was considerably improved under
the current Senior Management of MED. MED has gained considerable experience from the
World Bank-financed First Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project which enabled it to
comply more readily with Bank requirements for ICB tendering under the project and
resulted in efficient procurement and expeditious project implementation. MED's budgetary
allocation was adequate to cover fully the project's local funding requirements for civil
works and technical assistance.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   The key lessons learned from implementation of this project are:
(i)  A flexible program approach has been key to guaranteeing project success, as it
allowed the Bank and the implementing agency to respond adequately to
changes in rehabilitation priorities during project implementation.
(ii) The appraisal team was over optimistic about the timeframe required for
project implementation, and did not take into account the slow system in Egypt
of awarding contracts for procurement of goods and the slow pace of civil work
construction for pumping stations. As a result, two short extensions to the
project closing date (i.e., 9 months total) had to be granted to enable
disbursements to be finalized.
(iii) Although a beginning was made under PSRP II, monitoring and evaluation
capacity needs to be enhanced at MED to enable the tracking of project costs,
benefits and impacts. This is being addressed under the newly-approved Egypt
PSRP III.
(iv) Although not part of the project, it was realized, while carrying out
environmental studies related to El-Max and El-Tabia pumping stations, that
an environment unit is needed at MED to monitor water and other related
environment quality and alert authorities about problems for corrective action.
This is being addressed in the follow-on PSRP III, in which an environment
unit will be established.
(v) In the case of new stations, close coordination by MED of the electro-
mechanical equipment contracts and related civil work contracts is key to



reducing implementation delays. With close coordination, delays associated
with the electro-mechanical equipment arriving without the related civil works
contract being ready are forestalled. In fact, implementation of new stations
using two closely coordinated, but separate contracts (one, for equipment
supply and, the other, for civil works) has shown that implementation time is
reduced compared to the single lump-sum contract which was utilized under
PSRP I.
(vi) There are considerable benefits to having repeater projects with the same
implementation agency (MED). This allows the building of a core professional
team at MED that is familiar with World Bank requirements for project
implementation, and that can save effort and time because it is well established
and operational.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3198-EGT)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.    Agriculture is an important sector of the Egyptian economy, providing about 17% of total
GDP and 35% of employment in 1995. Limitations of arable land and water are the two major
constraints facing Egyptian agriculture. This is reflected in low cultivable land ratios of 0.13
feddan per capita and reduced availability of water per capita. With a population of about 65.0
million in 1998 growing about 2% per year, Egypt's future growth in agricultural production will
need to come from more efficient utilization of the country's limited land and water resources.
2.    The irrigation and drainage pumping stations are critical to the survival of Egyptian
agriculture. Given Egypt's flat topography, the pumping stations play a critical role in lifting
water levels to ensure a continuous and adequate gravity flow to meet the requirements of an
intensive agricultural system where cropping intensities average about 200%. Egypt's agricultural
situation is unique in the sense that its only rainfall is concentrated in a narrow belt of rangeland
along the northern (Mediterranean) coast, and the country is almost entirely dependent on the
water resources of the Nile River for irrigation. The construction of the High Aswan Dam
allowed the majority of the flow of the Nile to be retained, granting Egypt 55.5 billion cubic
meters of water annually. The Nile water system, which extends 1,200 km from the High Aswan
Dam to the Mediterranean Sea, consists of two storage dams at Aswan, seven major barrages and
about 31,000 km of canals and 16,700 km of open drains. The Nile water is diverted to these
irrigation canals through gravity command regulated by barrages and/or through pumping
stations. The canal system delivers water into tertiaries known as "meskas", which are channels
serving 100-500 feddans. The delivery of water up to the meska-level is traditionally the
responsibility of the government; thereafter, farmers take responsibility for delivery of water to
their fields.
3.    The Government of Egypt has been investing to modernize its irrigation and drainage
system to enable their efficient functioning and thereby contribute to better management and
utilization of scarce water resources. The Pumping Stations Rehabilitation II Project (PSRP-II)
is the eighth project that was supported by the World Bank in the Irrigation and Drainage



2
subsector. It was preceded by five drainage projects, one channel maintenance project, and one
irrigation pumping stations rehabilitation project. At present, the National Drainage Project and
Irrigation Improvement Project, both of which are financed by the World Bank and the German
KfW, are under implementation and a new irrigation/drainage project, the Third Pumping
Stations Rehabilitation Project, also cofinanced by the IBRD and KfW, was approved by the
World Bank Board of Executive Directors on August 6, 1998 and is in the process of being
approved by the Board of KfW, and is expected to become effective in March 1999.
4.   It is in this context that the Government, with IBRD and other donor assistance, has
formulated a long-term program for rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage pumping stations
located on main canals and drains of the Nile water management system. The World Bank has
fully endorsed the objectives of this program and has provided support for more than a decade.
The first stage of the rehabilitation program has been supported through the First Pumping
Stations Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2270-EGT), with a loan amount of US$41.5 million. This
project has been successfully implemented and was rated satisfactory. The second stage of the
rehabilitation program has been implemented and supported by the World Bank through the
Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation (PSR II) Project (Ln. 3198-EGT), with a loan amount of
US$31.0 million. The program is also being supported by IBRD and IDA funds under the
National Drainage Project which are financing a similar amount as in the PSR It project to
rehabilitate drainage pumping stations. The third stage of the program is being supported through
the Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project [see para 3].
5.    The World Bank's continuous support contributed to the efficient and optimal utilization
of the irrigation and drainage pumping stations and strengthened the institutional capabilities of
the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources (MPWWR), which is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Nile
system's more than 1000 pumping stations.
6.    The World Bank strategy in Egypt has given high priority to financing projects which
improve the utilization of existing capacities, particularly in agriculture. With food demand
rapidly increasing and the domestic budget inadequate to finance all priority needs, there has also
been a pressing need to seek external support for agricultural development. The rehabilitation of
the aging pumping stations was recommended as a priority operation in the Irrigation Subsector
Review carried out by the World Bank in 1981, and further investment in pumping stations
rehabilitation was also emphasized as a priority in the 1996 Irrigation Public Expenditure Review
and the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, May 5,1997).  The three projects to
rehabilitate pumping stations supported by the Bank to date are fully consistent with these sector
reviews and the CAS. The 1997 CAS highlights as one of its objectives the raising of rural
incomes through a diversified agricultural production based on efficient use of land and water
resources. The strategy in the sector is to invest in agriculture and water infrastructure as a
principal vehicle for encouraging rural development and tackling rural poverty. Other donors
have, as a result of Bank involvement, also identified the rehabilitation of pumping stations as a
priority area for support. Among these donors are the Islamic Bank, and bilateral financing from
the Japanese, French and Swiss governments, and lately German contribution through KfW in
the follow-on Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project. Some of these donors have been
co-financing these projects with the World Bank.



3
Project Objectives
7.    The objectives of the Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project were to: (i) avoid
future declines in yields and agricultural production, which would occur if the proposed
rehabilitation was not carried out; (ii) reduce the operation and maintenance costs of the pumping
stations, with related beneficial effects on the Government's recurrent budget; and (iii) strengthen
the institutional capability of the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED).
8.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was expected to help:
(a)   Rehabilitate pumping stations through a firm  (26 pumping stations) and
indicative program (25 pumping stations). In sum, the total program envisaged
involves rehabilitation of about 51 pumping stations serving a total area of about
850,000 feddans benefiting about 560,000 small-holders;
(b)   provide fourteen workshops and electrical laboratories, electro-mechanical
equipment, and miscellaneous equipment;
(c)   carry out civil works for the construction, extension, repair and rehabilitation of
pumping stations under the firm and indicative programs; the raising of inlet and
outlet platforms; and the construction of new workshops, stores, offices and staff
housing and the repair/rehabilitation of existing facilities;
(d)   provide institutional support through the provision of computer equipment and
related software to MIS; and
(e)   provide technical assistance (for the MIS program, studies on O&M  costs,
monitoring flow quality, environmental studies, etc.) and training for key MED
staff in MIS, engineering, financial and management aspects.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.    The project's development objectives were realistic and are still consistent with the May
5, 1997 World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Recognition was made of the realistic
benefits from pumping stations rehabilitation in terms of improvements in water delivery
efficiencies; reduced salinity resulting from improved drainage; fiscal savings to Government
resulting from reduced O&M, including savings in energy costs; and yield gains in terms of crop
loss avoidance. The objectives also recognized the need to strengthen MED's institutional
capability in order to improve and optimize the operation and maintenance of the pumping
stations and to ensure better sustainability of the investments made under the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations Component
10.   The SAR envisaged a two-part rehabilitation program: firm and indicative. The first part
was more or less fixed and included those stations most urgently in need of rehabilitation.
Criteria for selecting these stations included general performance, frequency of repairs, age of
the equipment, and the lack of standby capacity. The second part of the program was more



4
flexible, which was agreed upon during implementation and depended again on performance of
existing stations and cost and viability of maintaining obsolete units. The criteria for selection
was again age and perforrnance. Under the firm program, six existing stations were to be
replaced; nine floating stations in Upper Egypt were to be converted to land-based stations; eight
stations were to have their pumps and motors replaced; and some new stations were to have
faulty equipment replaced. The appraisal targets in the firm program have been substantially
achieved The total number of pumping stations in the firm program were revised from 26 to
19, of which all 19 stations were rehabilitated; (i.e., 16 are entirely new stations and 3 are
rehabilitated). The changes in the firm program were caused by the initial start-up delays of the
project, resulting in commencement on urgently needed rehabilitation of some of the stations in
the firm program from alternative available financing. The changes were also brought about by
the decision, in certain cases, to reconsider the rehabilitation requirements and choose less costly
options than assessed at appraisal; i.e., the provision of spare parts instead of the total
replacement of the pumping station. During project implementation, considerable additional
urgent requirements for the rehabilitation of drainage pumping stations emerged, which exceeded
the availability of funding from the PSR-II project loan. Thus, arrangements were made through
the National Drainage Project, by introducing the necessary amendments to IBRD Ln. 3417/IDA
Cr. 231 3-EGT, to allow the procurement -of urgently needed equipment for these stations.
11.   As for the indicative program, it was envisaged that some 25 pumping stations were to be
rehabilitated based on the age of their equipment and the past experience of MED with their
performance. The appraisal target for the indicative program was more than achieved and a
total of 27 pumping stations received substantial rehabilitation. In addition, a further 24 pumping
stations were effectively serviced with urgently needed spare parts under the indicative program.
The increase in the number of stations covered under the project is a result of the flexible design
of the indicative program which allowed the realization of low-cost technical solutions and the
adaptable provision of spare parts for pumping stations. Thus, stations which had unexpected
breakdowns were added to the indicative program. The effective utilization of a flexible
approach in the indicative program was successful largely due to the improved capacity of MED
and the positive interaction its staff had developed with the Bank team.
12.   Overall, in evaluating this component, the actual command area benefiting exceeded the
area envisaged at appraisal by 73%. The appraisal target agricultural area of 850,000 feddans
envisaged has been surpassed, resulting in a total achievement of about 1.47 million feddans.
This accounts for 19 percent of Egypt's total cultivated area with almost 1 million rural families
benefiting. A further 500,000 feddans benefited from the project through the servicing of the
additional 24 pumping stations under the indicative program with some spare parts.
Workshops, Electrical Laboratories and Miscellaneous Equipment Component
13.   At appraisal, it was envisaged that the project would: (a) provide for the selective
upgrading of existing MED workshop facilities to build on the substantial strengthening under
the first project, as well as provide equipment to inspectorate level workshops in Upper Egypt
and some 7 regional directorates; (b) provide mechanical trash rack cleaning equipment at 12
stations with weed accumulation problems and electrically operated overhead cranes at selected
stations; (c) repair the existing 80-ton floating dock at Aswan; and (d) provide vehicles and
equipment to the directorates, workshops and important pumping stations to improve operation
and maintenance work. The project has substantially achieved its appraisal targets under this
component. Some 14 light mobile workshops/electrical labs were envisaged at appraisal; this



5
was revised to 7 modified workshops and procured under the National Drainage Project from
IBRD/IDA financing. Of the 6 central electrical laboratories and workshops envisaged at
appraisal, this was revised to 4 and all have been completed. For the mechanical trash rack
cleaning equipment, 6 were completed under the project (against an appraisal target of 12 with
others implemented under other financing). Similarly, for the electrification of implemented
cranes, 15 were completed (against an appraisal target of 21 with others implemented under
alternative financing). The floating dock at Aswan has been repaired. As for tools and testing
instruments, some 200 were envisaged at appraisal, but the achievements under the project far
surpassed the target; (i.e., 718 grease pumps, 16 electric motors, etc. were all procured). Vehicles
and equipment to the directorates, workshops/electrical labs, and some pumping stations have
also been provided.
14.   In short, the further strengthening of directorates, workshops and laboratories, together
with rehabilitation and supply of new equipment for pumping stations will reduce O&M costs
and improve operations efficiency by some 20-30%. It will further help in ensuring the timely
delivery of irrigation water and evacuation of harmful drainage water.  Actual flow
measurements at older pumping stations due for rehabilitation indicates reduction in pumping
efficiency between 20-40% before rehabilitation, suggesting that the appraisal assumptions
regarding efficiency gains from rehabilitation were quite conservative and well-justified.
Civil Works Component
15.   The SAR envisaged implementation of civil works to eliminate the backlog of
maintenance of pump house structures by responding to the unique needs of each station. This
included the repair of deteriorated concrete structures at pump houses, substations, intake and
outlet piers; the sandblasting of damaged surfaces and exposed reinforcement bars; corrosion
protection for emergency gates, trash rack panels, and the steel structures in the water; the water
proofing of pump house and control panel roofs; and the rehabilitation of floors, stairways, etc.
The appraisal report also envisaged the construction of simple sheds for two small stations in
Upper Egypt, civil works for rehabilitation of the pumping stations, and provision of urgent
repairs and restoration of offices, workshops, stores and staff houses. Furthermore, the SAR
envisaged the construction of pump house structures for nine new land-based stations, six new
stations to replace stations with serious structural damage in addition to three new stations as
extensions to existing stations, new workshops, stores and offices, new staff housing, and repairs
and rehabilitation of existing facilities.
16.   The Directorate of Civil Works (DCW) has substantially completed all the programmed
works associated with the project (financed from the local budget) for the construction of staff
housing at pumping station sites, office accommodations, operators quarters, workshops and
stores. DCW is also engaged in a program of civil works maintenance for the pumping station
buildings. A review of the implemented works indicate that a total of 50 small civil works
contracts were awarded during the period 1994-1997 for implementation of infrastructure works
(other than pumping station rehabilitation works) under the project for contract amounts totaling
about LE 26 million. The DCW has also implemented 18 contracts for construction and/or
rehabilitation of pumping stations for contract amounts totaling LE 76 million in addition to
construction of a staff housing colony for LE 5 million. These completed civil work contracts
indicate that the targets envisaged at appraisal for this component has been more than
achieved. The civil works, especially the construction of adequate staff facilities and houses in
remote areas, will have important development impact in terms of attracting skilled staff to these
areas and encouraging their retention. Retention of skilled staff would in turn help support



6
improvements in ongoing O&M works and promote the sustainability of the irrigation and
drainage system.
Institutional Support Component
17.   The SAR envisaged the project to provide: (a) additional computer equipment and related
software for the MIS and support for the national microwave telecommunication system to
connect MED directorates, inspectorates and major pumping stations with the national network;
(b) technical assistance in the form of consultancy services (comprising 28 staff months of
internationally-recruited and 48 staff months of locally-recruited consultants) for the ongoing
MIS and for studies related to future MIS needs and microwave telecommunications
requirements. This involved establishing the baseline data on budget, O&M requirements of all
irrigation/drainage facilities, and land tax and various mechanisms to recover cost of O&M from
beneficiaries. USAID was to support this under their Irrigation Management System (IMS)
program. Also envisaged, was technical assistance for strengthening MED electrical laboratories
(five staff months of international TA and eight staff months of local TA); and technical
assistance (seven staff months of international TA and ten staff months of local TA) to monitor
quality of effluent for two pumping stations near Alexandria and study alternatives; (c) training
for about ten MED staff in systems analysis; 30 key staff in mechanical and civil engineering,
stores and financial aspects; eight middle level engineering staff from its workshops and field
directorates; and 20 study tours for senior management staff.
18.   The goals envisaged at appraisal have been substantially achieved for this
component regarding supply of hardware, software and training of MED personnel at
headquarters and at the field directorate levels. The MIS has been implemented and is
working. This component aimed to eventually tie into the national telemetry system, under
which, at appraisal, it was expected that a national microwave telecommunication system would
be set up within two years after project start, at which time it was expected that there would be a
need to connect MED directorates, inspectorates and major pumping stations with the national
network. The project provided financial support for this activity. So far, MED has installed
water level sensors on almost 90 percent of its pumping stations, of which about 30 have been
linked to the telemetry system of the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
(MPWWR), which has been established under ithe USAID-financed Main System Management
Project. With the provision of several MIS software packages and PCs, MED has now the tools
to collect and analyze basic data and information from approximately 880 pumping stations.
However, while the data collection and transmission system is in place and operating, MED is
using the MIS as a tool for data collection rather than as an effective management tool to
facilitate daily activities and to improve decision making. The MIS has some shortcomings in
that there is, at present, little information concerning operating cost and water discharge
efficiency transmitted to the center. Thus, there is still a considerable need to improve the quality
of the data and information collected on the performance of the stations before they can be used
for any analysis or decision making by management; this aspect is due to be taken up by the
follow-on Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (PSR III). There is also the need to
enable data monitored in real time at the main stations to be transmitted to the regional
directorates and to the MED headquarters in Cairo.
19.   The subcomponent to provide technical assistance in the form of consultancy services for
the ongoing MIS (to establish baseline data on budget, O&M requirements for irrigation and
drainage facilities, etc.) and studies related to future MIS needs, which was to be financed by
USAID, did not materialize directly to the MED but rather to the MPWWR. Hence, all



7
institutional support activities were funded either through the loan or through MED's budget. For
example, the technical assistance to monitor water quality to conform to acceptable
environmental standards at El-Max (which discharges its effluent to Lake Mariut) and El-Tabya
drainage pumping stations was financed through MED's local budget. The resulting study,
carried out by the Drainage Research Institute (DRI) and financed by MED, monitored and
assessed the bio-chemical effluents released by the paper mills, fertilizer factories, and oil
refineries into the Recta and Abu-Kheer drains corresponding to the El-Tabya and El-Max
pumping stations respectively. The results of the study provided the basis for further action to
pressure the polluting mills and refineries to treat their effluents (in accordance with
Environment Law No. 48 of 1982 and Law No. 4 of 1994)) at the two waste treatment plants in
East and West of Alexandria to minimize the load of pollutants in the drains, which has since
improved the quality of water at the El-Max drainage pumping station.
20.   As for the training envisaged at appraisal, several hundred of MED's staff attended
training courses at the MPWWR's training center; in addition, four staff of MED received
training over a period of four months on equipment procurement management at the ILO
International Training Center in Turin, Italy, and this has improved their effectiveness in
implementing procurement in MED. Also, under each pumping station contract, overseas
training of MED staff by pumping equipment suppliers was included.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   The project experienced some delays in its early period of implementation, as follows:
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up. Following approval of the project by the
World Bank Board of Executive Directors on May 15, 1990, the project loan agreement
experienced delays of almost one and a half years before it was ratified by
Parliament/Cabinet and declared effective on October 11, 1991. It further experienced
some startup delays. Despite these delays, MED quickly made up for the lost time due to
positive changes in its management by pushing head with preparing the tender
documents, including the technical specifications, and preliminary civil works drawings
for construction and having them reviewed and cleared by the Bank. Active cooperation
from the Bank team helped expedite the timely implementation of procurements.
Implementation Delays. Because of the expansion in project activities beyond what was
envisaged at appraisal owing to efficiency gains arising from the flexibility of the
indicative program, the project closing date was extended twice from December 31, 1997
to May 15, 1998 to finally September 30, 1998. Delays were experienced in project
implementation mainly due to delays in the completion of the civil works for a few of the
new station buildings.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Sustainability of the investments made in irrigation and drainage pumping stations and
the benefits obtained from them depends on timely availability of adequate O&M resources, and
on the resiliency of the institutions that oversee their management. The sustainability of the
project is ensured for three reasons: (i) this project reduces O&M costs and thereby reduces the
government's fiscal burden as channeled through the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources; (ii) well-functioning pumping stations are critical to the survival of Egyptian
agriculture, and Government has demonstrated a priority commitment to the life-long



8
maintenance and durability of these pumping stations, and levies a land tax (14% of the annual
rental value of land) on agricultural land holdings greater than 3 feddans. The average payment
for the land tax is LE 30 (US$9.0) per feddan per year, and is collected by Government as
contribution for the O&M of the irrigation and drainage system serving the agricultural areas,
including the pumping stations; and (iii) the project strengthened MED's overall institutional
capacity to operate and undertake preventive maintenance of the pumping stations facilities.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank's performance in the project has been satisfactory. The Bank contributed to the
success of the project through timely supervision, close coordination with the MED and by
providing professional advice to MED. The Bank carried out about sixteen supervision missions,
during which it worked closely with the staff of the MED, reviewing and solving implementation
problems as they arose. Moreover, the Bank managed to play a constructive role in adopting a
program approach for the station rehabilitation and in familiarizing the MED with Bank
procurement policies. The Bank's presence has also had the positive effect of encouraging other
donors to agree to fund pumping station rehabilitation projects with MED. The Bank carried out
a mid-term review in October 1994, which enabled the Bank and the project staff in MED to
jointly take stock of progress, resolve outstanding problems, and agree on next steps on the
implementation program for the remaining period of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   Borrower's performance has also been satisfactory, except for initial delays in project
start up owing to ratification of the loan agreement. Implementation has been considerably
improved under the current Senior Management of MED. MED has gained considerable
experience from the World Bank-financed First Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project and was
therefore able to utilize that experience to comply with Bank requirements for ICB tendering and
thereby expedite project implementation and efficient procurement of equipment.  MED's
budgetary allocation was adequate to cover fully the project's local funding requirements for civil
works and technical assistance.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. Out of 17 legal covenants, 14 have
been fully complied with; two have been partially complied with; and only one experienced
delayed compliance (see Table 9).  The project was satisfactory in the first years of
implementation and became highly satisfactory in the last 2 years of implementation. The
project benefited 1.47 million feddans (against 0.85 million feddans envisaged at appraisal),
which accounts for roughly 19 percent of the total cultivated area in Egypt. A further 500,00
feddans benefited from the project through the servicing with spare parts of 24 pumping stations
under the indicative program, making the total area benefiting from the project about 2 million
feddans. The recalculated ERR for the project based on actual field data since project start-up is
22% (as compared to 24% at appraisal). This ERR, however, is based only on the benefits from
the pumping stations under the firm program using the same methodology as in the SAR.
However, when the actual benefits under the project coming from both the firm and the
indicative program were included in the context of a sensitivity analysis, the ERR from the
project is substantially higher than at appraisal (i.e., 27%), which confirms the economic viability
of the project.



9
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
26.   The main lessons learned from implementation of the project are as follows:
(a) To guarantee project success, a flexible program approach is necessary for this type
of project in the selection of pumping stations for rehabilitation and repair because
rehabilitation priorities change during implementation. It is, therefore, important
that the Bank and the implementing agency maintain flexibility in the program to
reallocate resources to cover urgently needed rehabilitation works which come up
during implementation.
(b) The appraisal team was over optimistic about the time frame required to implement
the project.  In particular, the start-up period between Board approval and
effectiveness (about 1.5 years) was exceptionally long. The time planned for the
rehabilitation did not properly consider the slow system in Egypt of awarding
contracts for procurement of goods during the early stages of the project and the
slow pace of civil construction work for pump stations. As a result, two short
extensions totaling about 9 months had to be granted to the loan closing date to
enable disbursements to be finalized.
(c) Although some start was made under the Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation
Project, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity still needs to be enhanced at
MED, and it is important that this capacity is built to enable the tracking of project
costs, benefits and impacts. This is being addressed through building of M&E
capacity in MED under the Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project.
(d) Although not part of the project, it was realized, while carrying out environmental
studies related to the El-Max and El Tabia pumping stations, that an environmental
unit is urgently needed at MED. This is being addressed under the follow-on PSR-
III project, in which an environment unit would be established. The unit would
monitor water quality and assess other environmental impacts, and do periodic
follow up of environment matters to enable early detection of problems and prompt
corrective action. Training and general awareness of environmental issues by MED
staff would be provided.
(e) Close coordination by the MED between electro-mechanical equipment contracts
and related civil work contracts, in the case of new stations, is key to reducing
delays in implementation, and avoiding the arrival of the electro-mechanical
equipment without the related civil works contract being ready for installation of the
equipment. Implementation of new stations using two separate contracts (one for
supply of equipment and one for civil works) has shown that implementation time is
reduced compared to the single lump sum contract used in the first pumping stations
rehabilitation project.
(f) There are considerable benefits to having repeater projects with the same
implementation agency (MED). This allows the building of a core professional
team at MED that is familiar with World Bank requirements for project
implementation, and that can save effort and time because it is well established and
operational.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3198-EGT)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4A: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
A.  Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B.   Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C.  Economic Re-Evaluation
D.  Government's Comments on ICR



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      O               Q                Q                  3
Sector Policies                      l              E                  l               E
Financial Objectives               El               E                E                 E
Institutional Development          El               E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                El               E                E                 E
Poverty Reduction                  El               E                E                 E
Gender Issues                       O               E                E                 El
Other Social Objectives            n                El               E                 El
Environmental Objectives                            El               El
Public Sector Managemnent          El               E                E                 E
Private Sector Development          Q               E                El               El
Other (specify)                                     El               El               E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                                      Unlikely                 Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                      E                        El                        E
Preparation Assistance                l                      El                        E
Appraisal                           E                       El                         E
Supervision                        El                        E                         E



12
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                   D                               5
lmplementation                                  l                             5
Covenant Compliance                           Cl              0               E
Operation (if applicable)                     I               0               El
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satif y        Unsatisfactory      n
l                 B              El                El



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose                                 Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Upper Egypt Drainage Project   To provide improved drainage throughout most of  1973      Closed
(Cr. 393)                      the nearly 5 million feddan of the historically
irrigated area (the old lands) in the Nile Valley
below the dam at Aswan. The project aimed to
provide field drainage to some 6% of this area.
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project    The project seeks to improve agricultural    1976      Closed
(Ln. 1235/Cr. 637)             productivity by lowering the water table on 500,000
feddans of irrigated land in Upper Egypt through:
installation of buried pipe drains; remodeling 1,226
akm of existing drains and construction of 346 kmI
new open drains; construction of one pumping
station, and amelioration of saline soils in 12,000
fed. Also included are procurement of equipment,
expansion of the Bilharzia Control Program over
120,000 feddan and financing its cost overrun of
$4.2m under the first project.
Nile Delta Drainage II Project  To improve agricultural productivity by lowering  1977    Closed
(Ln. 1439/Cr. 719)             the water table on 400,000 fed. of irrigated land in
the Delta, through installation of subsurface pipe
drains; remodeling about 1,565 km of existing open
drains; construction of four new pumping stations
and renovation of 16 old pumping units in three
existing pumping stations. Also included is support
for the UNDP Master Plan for water resources and
extension of the Bilharzia Control Program to 1.2
million feddan.
lrrigation Pumping Stations Rehab.  To rehabilitate irrigation and drainage pumping  1983  Closed
Project                        stations, so that the harmful effects of pump failures
(Ln. 2270)                     on crops could be avoided and the O&M costs of
these stations can be reduced, and to strengthen
maintenance capabilities of M&E by establishing
computerized pump maintenance, spare parts
inventory control and cost accounting systems.
Drainage V Project             To increase farn production by reversing the     1985      Closed
(Ln. 2562)                     deteriorating salt and water balance in 465,000
feddan, and to strengthen the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) to
improve standards of implementation, quality
control, maintenance and monitoring.



14
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose                                 Year of    Status
Approval
Channel Maintenance Project    To help increase agricultural productivity through  1986   Closed
(Ln. 2732)                     more efficient functioning of the irrigation and
drainage network, to introduce relevant and cost-
effective methods of channel maintenance, and to
strengthen the capabilities of project-related
institutions.
National Drainage Project      To increase agricultural productivity by evacuating  1991  Ongoing
(Ln. 3417/Cr. 2313)            excess water and salts from undrained areas,
reversing the current land deterioration trend; and to
improve institutional planning and the
implementation capacity of the drainage subsector.
Following operations
Irrigation Improvement Project  To increase agricultural production and farmers  1994    Ongoing
(Ln. 3832/Cr. 2672)            income by improving the irrigation infrastructure,
facilitating a more equitable distribution of water,
and improved on-farm water management; to
improve the long-term sustainability, through
takeover of responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the tertiary level irrigation system by
the farmers and their sharing in the costs for the
tertiary level investments; and to strengthen the
institutional planning and implementation capacity
of the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources in the irrigation subsector.
East Delta Agricultural Service  To provide support services to facilitate the  1997    Ongoing
Project                        settlement and increased agricultural production of
(Ln. 3832/ Cr. 2672)           about 26,000 farm families on 130,000 feddans of
newly-developed lands in the East Delta, leading to
increased farm incomes and laying the basis for the
development of a viable niral economy in the East
Delta area.
Pumping Stations Rehabilitation  A follow on project to the project in question. To  1998    Ongoing
Project III                    improve the efficiency of operation and maintenance
(Ln. 4386)                     of the pumping stations and thereby save public
expenditures on operation and maintenance; to
improve the efficiency and reliability of delivery of
irrigation water and evacuation of drainage water to
prevent the losses in crop yields resulting from aging
stations; and to strengthen further the planning and
operation and maintenance capability of the
Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the
Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources to
enhance the sustainability of the irrigation drainage
system. This project will continue the institutional
building of the MED to which the project has also
contributed quite considerably.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle               Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     N.A.                 August 1989
Preparation                                    N.A.                 May-August 1989
Appraisal                                      October 1989         04/24/1990
Negotiations                                   March 1990           N.A..
Board Presentation                             May 1990             05/15/1990
Signing                                        N.A.                 02/13/1991
Effectiveness                                  November 1990        10/11/1991
Mid-Term Review (if applicable)                09/01/1994           10/01/1994
Project Completion                             07/30/1997           12/31/1997
Loan Closing                                   12/31/1997           09/15/1998
N.A. = Not Available
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual*
(US$ thousands)
FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal Estimate         0.1    1.1    4.6    10.1   17.6   25.6   29.6   31.0   31.0
Actual                     0.0    1.7    2.3      7.6   18.6   23.2   25.3   27.1   30.3
Actual as % of Estimate    0      155     50     75      103    93     85     87      98
Expected Date of Final Disbursement    February 15, 1999
* as of September 30, 1998, with all the amount of the loan committed and due to be disbursed by February 15,
1999, except for about US$ 75,000.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated    Revised       Actual Feb. 1998
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report     SAR      Oct. 19941
1. Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations
(a) Firm Program (No)                                      26          18                 19
(b) Indicative Program (No)                               25           35                27
Additional Stations with Minor Rehabilitation (No)                                    24
2. Workshops/Electriclab/Laboratories and Miscellaneous
Equipment
(a) Light mobile workshops/electrical laboratories (No)    14           7                74/
(b) Central electrical laboratories and workshops (No)     6            4                 3
(c) Standard tolls and testing instruments (No)           200                            718
(d) Electrification of cranes (No)                         21                             15
(e) Mechanized trash rack cleaning equipment (No)          12           6                 3
(f) Power capacitors (No)                                  20          20                20
(g) Repair of existing 80 tons floating dock (No)          1            1                 1
3. Civil Works (from MED Budget)
(a) New pumping stations (No)                              6            5                 6
(b) Extension of existing stations (No)                   3 2/         __                __
(c) New land-based stations (No)                           9            9                 9
(d) New workshops/stores offices (in2)                   3,000        3,000             3,000
(e) Staff housing (m2)                                   18,800      12,000 3'          12,000
(f) Repairs/rehabilitation of existing facilities (m?)   34,000      34,000             34,000
1/    Mid-term Review.
21   Extensions were not found necessary on detailed inspection on one station where rehabilitation carried out in
place while other two stations constructed under other financing.
3'    Reduction due to MED's re-evaluation of its requirements and priorities.
Procured under National Drainage Project.



17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as Defined                Status                Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined
1. Management           (a) Identify future needs and/or                       MED linked 30 stations
Iformation System.       expansion.                                         through MPWWR's
(b) Assess how to Link MED   (b) Study completed, and   telemetry system.
offices over the national    carried out by the
network of microwave         Ministry of Irrigation
telecommunication.           (USAID funding).
2. Assessment of MED's   (a) Assess MED's current     Study completed and      Workshop procurement
electrical laboratories    capacity.               carried out by consultants   canried out following this
and private workshops.  ()IetfMD'furendsMott McDonald (British               study.
P       P   ~~~(b) Identify MED's future needs  ODA fundng).(        tuy 
for additional equipment,                                                    I
staffing and training.
(c) Assess private workshops'
capacity for canying out
work currently undertaken
by MED.
3. Industria and domestic  (a) Monitor the quality of flow    Monitoring for two years    Water quality at the pumping
waste flow.              discharged to Lake Maryut   and study carried out by  stations now in compliance
and Abu Keir drain.      Drainage Research         with Egypt's standards for
(b) Recommend solutions t    Institute.                water quality.
improve the quality of flow   Construction of two  Pollution much reduced at the
being pumped by El Max    treatment plants in      two stations.
and El Tabya pumping     Alexandria (completed).
stations.
4. Cost and cost recovery.  (a) Determine total O&M cost    Studies completed, carried   Studies clarified cost recovery
for various irrigation and  out by consultants     options. As a result, water
drainage facilities.     Lahmeyer and by DI        users associations to recover
. Assuetu(USAID funded project for  costs at mesqa (tertiary) level
(b) Assess current budgetng  MPWWR).                   introduced in some areas
under rrigation Improvement
(c) Assess land tax attributable                       Project and cost sharing is
to irigation and drainage                          taking place under National
facilities.                                        Drainage Project I, with
options of cost recovery
(d) Assess various mechanisms                          further upstream still under
to recover O&M cost from                           consideration by MPWWR.
the beneficiaries and their
capacity to pay.



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USS'000)          Latest Estimate*(US$ 000)
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign       Total
Item                   Costs       Costs                   Costs       Costs
1. Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations
- Newly Replaced Stations
- Extension & Replacement of       2,580        3,743      6,323       6,884        7,579       14,464
Equipment in Existing Stations
- New Land Based Stations          1,773        3,544      5,317         -           -            _
Replacing Floating Stations
- Replacement of Equipment in       592         1,277       1,870      2,105        1,326       3,431
Existing Pumping Stations
- Rehabilitation of Remaining      1,804        5,248      7,052       2,470        4,321       6,791
Stations (Indicative Program)
Sub-Total                          2,155       6,090       8,245       2,497       12,486       14,983
8,905      19,902      28,808      13,956      25,712       39,669
2. Workshops, Laboratories and
Miscellaneous Equipment
- Workshop Equipment                323         908         1,231       250         146          396
- Electrical Laboratories           208         485         692         200         3,148       3,348
- Vehicles and Heavy Equipment      601         1,409      2,010        501         392          893
- Computers and Telecommunication
- Miscellaneous Equipment           154         615         769         121         269          390
Sub-Total                             279         625         904         259        1,000        1,259
1,564       4,041       5,605       1,331       4,954        6,285
3. Building Facilities
- Staff housing                   1,640        410        2,051       1,640         -           1,640
Sub-Total                            1,640        410        2,051       1,640         -          1,640
4. TA and Training
- Management Information System     224         353         577          -           -            _
- O&M requirements
- Environmental Monitoring System   130          197        327          -           13           13
- Training                                                                                               l
Sub-Total                              67          85         152         24           --           24
140         495        635          -           23           23
560        1,130       1,690        24          36          60**
Physical Contingencies               1,196       1,521       2,716         -           -            _
Price Contingencies                  2,843       5,368       8,211         -           -            _
TOTAL                               16,710      32,372      49,082      16,961      30,702       47,663
*     As of September 30, 1998
**    This only reflects TA/training cost incurred under the Category 3 of the loan which was available to MED. The other
funding earmarked at appraisal from bilateral sources (primarily USAID) was used for TA/training through the MPWWR
directly to carry out sectoral studies and training. Considerable on the job training was also carried out for MED staff
directly through the supply contracts.



19
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USM                Actual/Latest Estimate*(US$M)
Local        Foreign        Total        Local       Foreign      Total
Source             Costs         Costs                       Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                      *           31.0          31.0                     30.7          30.7
USAID **                    --             1.1           1.1
Other External Sources      --             0.3           0.3                --                  --
Domestic Contribution       16.7           --           16.7        16.96         --          16.96
TOTAL                      16.7          32.4          49.1        16.96        30.7          47.7
*     As of September 30, 1998
**    Funding channeled to MPWWR.
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits al
Source                          Unit       SAR Estimate   ICR Estimate
1. Number of Pumping Stations Firm Progrm           No.             26                19
(Indicative Properties)                           No.             25               (27)
(Stations received minor spare parts)             No.              --              (24)
2. CommandAreaFirm Program                         Feddan         596,510           299,490
(Indicative Program)                            Feddan         254,000          1.127,646
3. Savings in Power Consumption per Year         Kwh million         25               11
4. Economic Rate of Return                           %               24               22
5. Sensitivity Analysis for ERR '%                                   --               27
a)   In line with the economic analysis in the SAR, this table covers only the firm program. Because of other
sources of financing, several stations of the firm program have been removed and, hence, the command area
and number of stations in the ICR estimate is smaller than the SAR estimate. The total achievements of the
rehabilitation program, i.e. the indicative and firn program, however, far exceed those of the SAR report (see
Annex C for details).
b)   The period covered by the economic analysis has been extended in a sensitivity analysis to reflect the true
economic life of pumping stations of 30 years with reinvestment in cost of pumps conservatively taken every
15 years, with area covered reflecting actual achieved area benefiting (1.47 million ha) and does not include
the addition benefits from work done on further number of stations by supplying urgently required spare
parts benefiting a further 500,000 fed.



20
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section              Description of Covenant     Original  Revised Date   Present        Comments
(Covenant Types )          Date                   Status
Section 3.01 (a) and (b)    Government to carry out project                         C      In compliance
through MED and provide funds,
facilities and services for project
according to implementation
arrangements set forth in Schedule 5.
(04, 05, 10)
Section 3.02            Procurements of goods and services                          C      In compliance
financed out of loan proceeds to be
governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4. (03, 10)
Section 4.01 (a) and (b)    Maintain records of accounts of the                     C      In compliance
project and furnish to the Bank audit
reports of project accounts including
special accounts. (01)
Section 4.01 (c)        Maintain records of accounts for all                        C      In compliance
expenditures withdrawn on the basis
of statements of expenditures and
these to be included in the annual
audit (01)
Article IV, Section 4.02 (a) Cause MPW to prepare a study of the 06/30/91           CD     MPWWR prepared study
financial aspects of O&M of                                        "Action Plan for
irrigation and drainage system. (02)                               strengthening Water
Resource Management
in Egypt", a section of
which dealt with
"strengthening irrigation
management in Egypt".
lArticleIV,Section4.02(b) ByDecember31, 1991,aphased     12/31/91                   CP      MPWWR prepared study
action plan to implement the agreed                                "Action Plan for
recommendations of such a study.                                   strengthening Water
(02)                                                               Resource Management
in Egypf', a section of
which dealt with
"strengthening irrigation
management in Egypt .
Study under review by
MPWWR
Section 4.02 (c)        In accordance with current       12/31/91                   C       In compliance
Government policy, a phased plan to
continue transfening to beneficiaries
the operational responsibility for
booster pumps, wells, small lift
stations in recently reclaimed
agricultural land. (02, 05)
Schedule 5, Part A-3    Establishment of appropriate     05/31/90                   CP     Partial compliance.
procedures for coordination between                                Coordination is done
MED, Ministry of Industry and other                                through normal inter-
entities regarding industrial waste                                ministerial channels.
near Alexandria. (05, 06)
Schedule 5, Part A-4    MED to assign to its Directorate for                        C       In compliance
studies and specification adequate
technical staff. (05, 10)



21
Section              Description of Covenant       Original  Revised Date   Present        Comments
(Covenant Types)            Date                   Status
Schedule 5, Part B-I (a)    Starting in 1992, MED to prepare  01/01/92                 C           In compliance
two-year work plans specifying
stations to be rehabilitated with
estimated cost and implementation
schedule. (05, 10)
Schedule5, Part B-I (c)    MED to furnish annual report on  03/31/91                   C           In compliance
progress of work plans, budgetary
provision for subsequent year works
and O&M. (04, 05, 10)
Schedule 5, Part B-2    To monitor on a semi-monthly basis  05/31/92                   C           In compliance
the quality of flow discharged in Lake
Maryut from waste treatment plant for
two years after the commissioning of
the plant. (06)
Schedule 5, Part B-3    Monitor on a semi-monthly basis the  03/31/92                  C           In compliance
quality of flow at various discharge
points along Adu-Keir drain. (06)
Schedule 5, Part B-4    Replace El-Owania floating station    12/31/92                 C           In compliance
with land-based station. (06, 10)
ScheduleS, Part B-6     Adequate staffing of MED          12/31/91                     C           In compliance
Management Information System
Units at its central and regional
offices. (04, 05, 10)
Schedule 5, Part 7      MED to furnish a detailed report on   06/30/94                 C           In compliance
progress in project implementation
for undertaking a joint mid-term
review by MED and Bank. (05, 10)
Covenant types:                                      Present Status:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                C  =  covenant complied with
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  CD =  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                  CP =  complied with partially
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds
4. =  Counterpart funding
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing
agency
6. =  Environmental covenants
10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9



22
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs*
Stage of                              Planned                   Actual
Project Cycle__ _ _ _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal                 N.A.       N.A.        71.3         168.5
AppraisalLOBoard                         N.A.       N.A.         9.3          26
Negotiations through Board Approval      N.A.        N.A.       N.A.         N.A.
Supervision FY 1990                      N.A.       N.A.        3.6           8.7
Supervision FY 1991                      N.A.       N.A.         8.6          24.3
Supervision FY 1992                      N.A.       N.A.        16.4         45.1
Supervision FY 1993                      N.A.       N.A.        11.3          39.3
Supervision FY 1994                      N.A.       N.A.        10.7          35.4
Supervision FY 1995                      N.A.       N.A.        13.6          63.1
Supervision FY 1996                      N.A.       N.A.         7.9          25.6
Supervision FY 1997                      N.A.       N.A.         8.8          26.3
Supervision FY 1998                      N.A.       N.A.        11.2          35.4
Supervision FY 1999                      N.A.       N.A.          1           1.2
Sub-Total SPN                            N.A.       N.A.        93.1         304.4
Completion                               N.A.       N.A.         1.2          12.3
GRAND-TOTAL                             N.A.       N.A.        174.9        511.2
* In addition, 0.7 SW, US$ 2,400 for CAS, ERA and LEN.
N.A. - Not Available



23
Tablell: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized    Implementation   Development
Stage of     Month/         Of         Days in        Staff Skills       Status        Objectives      Types of
Project Cycle   Year        Persons       Field         Represented                                      Problems
Through Appraisal    N.A          N.A.         N.A.       N.A.
Appraisal through    N.A.         N.A.         N.A.       N.A.                    _               _              _
Board Approval
Supervision 1*     June 1990        2           2.6      EI, CB                   1               1
Supervision 2      April 1991       1           0.3       IE                      2               1
Supervision 3      Nov. 1991        1            0        IE                      2               1
Supervision 4      May 1992        2            2.5       IE, MEE                 2               I
Supervision 5      Nov. 1992        2           2.2       IE, MEE                 2               2
Supervision 6      June 1993        2            0        IE, MEE                 2               1
Supervision 7      Dec. 1993        2           2.6       IE, MEE                 2               1
Supervision 8      July 1994        2            0        IE, MEE                 S              HS
Supervision 9      Oct. 1994        4            0        IE, ME, ES, EC          S              HS
Supervision 10     June 1995        4            0        IE, EC, ES, AG         HS              HS
Supervision 11     Oct. 1995        1           0.3       IE                     HS              HS
Supervision 12     June 1996       3             0        IE, ES, EC              S              HS
Supervision 13     Feb. 1997        4           20        IE, EC, ES             HS              HS
Supervision 14     July 1997        4            12       IE, EC, ES              S              HS
Supervision 15     Dec. 1997        3            18       IE, EC, ES             HS              HS
Supervision 16     June 1998       4             16       IE, EC, ES             HS              HS
Implementation     Oct. 1998        3            11       IE, EC                 HS              HS
Completion Report
Completion         June 1998        4            16       EC, AG, ES             HS              HS
* Initial Summary
Specialists Represented on Mission: IE = Irrigation Engineer, AG   Agriculturist, EC = Economist, ES = Environment
Specialist, CB = Chemist/Biologist, MEE = Mechanical/Electrical Engineer
Performance Rating: I = Problem Free, 2 = Minor Problems, 3 = Major Problems, HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory



ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198-EGI)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING



Arab Republic of Egypt
Pump Station Rehabilitation Projects
IBRD Loans 3198 Egt. and 4386-EGT)
ICR and Follow up Mission-November 1998
Memorandum of Understanding
1.   A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Nejdet Al-Salihi, Tijan Sallah,
Matthias Schlund and Rouchdy Saleh camied out a review of issues related to the
rehabilitation of pumping stations including preparation of the ICR for the Second Pump
Station Rehabilitation Project ( Ln 3198 Egt) and follow up of developments in the pre-
effectiveness stage of the Third Pumping Station Rehabilitation Project ( Ln 4141 Egt.),
over the period November 1O to 18, 1998, in conjunction with the supervision of the
National Drainage Project- Ln 3417/ Cr. 2313 Egt.
2.   The mission would like to record its thanks and appreciation for the ciose c;
operation, assistance and courtesies extended during its visit by the MED. The following
is a sumnmary of the discussions and agreements reached between the mission and the
MED which was discussed during a meeting chaired by Eng. Abdul LatifAskar. The
findings and recommendations of the rmission are subject to confirmationby the World
Bank Management.
3.    Draft ICR Discussions Second Pump Station Rehab. Project Ln 3198 Egt.
( i ) The IBRD Loan in question closed on September 15, 1998.
( iii ) MED estimates that most of the loan amounts will have been withdrawn by
January 15, 1999, except possibly for an amount equivilant to about USS 75,000 resulting
from a surplus due to a contract which was cancelled too late in the project cycle to allow
re-use of funds for alternative procurements.
(ii ) During project supervision, the mission gave a draft copy of the ICR,
including the economic anplysis, to the MED staff for review. Meetings were
subsequently held to discuss MED's comments on the draft ICR, and to finalize details
and clarify queries that the World Bank ICR mission had on some pumping stations.Data
gaps on finalizng the economic analysis were also discussed and MED responded
appropriately. The mission was able to finalize the annexes for the ICR. The mission
requested and MED agreed to send their comments for inclusion in the final version of
the ICR.
4.  Follow-up of the Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 4386-EGT)
The-following is the status of preparation in the pre-effectiveness stage and the
issues discused regarding the Pumps m Project;
(i ) The loan agreement was signed by the Government and the Bank in Cairo on
October 28, 1998.The loan agreement is now being processed in preparation for
the eventual ratification in Parliament within the next two months.



- 2 -
(ii ) Tle form of the General Procurement Notice ( GPN ) was discussed and it
was agreed that the MED would forward a draft of the GPN to the Bank for clearance
and eventual publishing in the press by November 30, 1998.
( iii ) The mission discussed with MED's Project Co-ordination Committee
progress of preparation of the technical assistance component following KfW's indication
that it will be reducing its contribution to TA in preference to ufilizing it's funding for
procurement of hardware for pump station rehabilitation. To this end, it was agreed at
the MED would forward a revised action plan for the TA , Institutional Support and
Training components, by January 15, l999using Bank and MED's local funding.
( iv ) It was agreed that the MED will start articulating its Environmental Action
Plan based on the data provisionally provided in the PAD ( Annex 7) utilizing available
funding and forward it to the Bank by January 31, 1999.
( v ) The new project's support for the MED was discussed with the head of the
MIS section and the Project Co-ordination Committee and the need for the section to
begin to prepare its implementation program, in anticipation of the effectiveness of the
loan agreement. It was agreed that based on the project allocations and the-information
detailed in the PAD the MIS section would forward a draft of its program to the Bank for
clearance by January 15, 1999.
( vi ) The mission discussed the the draft bidding document the MED is preparing
for procurement of electro-mechanical equipment for the project's pumping station. It
was agreed that the World Bank's standard bidding document for "Supply and
Installation of Plant and Equipment, of November 1997' would be utilized for this
purpose. It was also agreed that MED would forward a draft of the document for review
and clearance by the Bank, no later than Dec. 31, 1999.
(vii ) MED indicated that it has written to the various regions requesting them to
review  the rehabilitation r6quirements indicated at appraisal and confirm  their
requirements to allow them to start firming down the final procurement schedule under
the project. It was therefore agreed that any revisions to the procurement shedule would
be forwarded to the bank for the first two years program by January 15, 1999.
Nejdet Al-Salihi                             En'M l715
Task Team Leader                            First Undersecretary
For World Bank                                 Head of IED
%; - i-I / q y



ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198-EGT)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



Project Completion Report
EGYPT
Irrigation gumoing stations rehabilitation project
Loan no. 3198
Bacgrond: -
1-1 Agriculture is an important sector of the Egyptian
economy, providing about 20% of gross domestic
product (GDP) and merchandise exports, and
employing 35% of the labor force. Umitation of
water and arable land are the two major
constralnts effecting Egyptian agriculture.
Cultivated land in Egypt Is limited to only about
3% to 4% of the total land area, and with 0.05 ha
per capital, Egypt has one of the lowest ratios of
Land per capital In the world. Agriculture's share of
GDP fell from3.5% In the 1970s to 2.5% In the 1980s.
In the wake of the program of economic
liberalization and sodal reform, the production of
Wheat, maize, beans, fruit and vegetables has
Increased signiflcintly in recent years. During the
same period, the rate of population growth
showed dedining trend, and approached an
estimated 2% In 1992. However, production levels
for the most Important commodities remain
inadequate to meet national demands.
1-2  Egypt's agricultural conditions are unique. The
country has no effective rainfall except in a narrow
band along the northem coastal areas, and It Is
almost entirely dependent on Irrigatlon.
Consequently, agricultural development Is closely
linked to the Nlle River and Its management. The



2
construction of the High Dam permitted the entire
flow of the Nile to be retained, and the Egypt -
Sudan water treaty allocated 55.5 billion cubic meters of water
annually to EgyptThe Nile system,whlch extends 1200 Km.
from Aswan to the Mediterranean Sea, consists of two storage
dams at Aswan, seven major barrages and about 31000 Km of
canals and 16700 Km of open drains .The Nile water Is diverted
to these Irrigation canals either through large regulating
barrages or through pumping.
The canals deliver water In to " meskas " which are channels
serving 100-500 fed. The delivery of water up to meska level is
the Govemment responsibility. There after, farmers take charge
of delivery of water to their fields.
1-3 Despite a single source of water supply, the water management
and delivery system In Egypt Is very complex.Due to flat
topography and double or even triple cropping systems, the
water has to be pumped and lifted several times without any
break to satisfy the needs of the Intensive agricultural system
similarly, fairly expensive drainage facilities must be established
and maintained to control ground water level and salinity to
maintain crop production .As such keeping these lrrlgation and
drainage pumping facl.ities in operation and maintaining their
efficiency which Is the focus of this project is vital for Egyptian
agriculture .
2-orojctbective And  _esrito:
2-1 Project Obiective:-
The main objecives of the project are to avoid future dedlnes
In yields and agricultural production, which would occur If the
rehabilitation project were not carried out. Other objectives are
to reduce the operation and maintenance cost of the pumping
stations, with related beneficial effects on the governments
recurrent budgets, and to strengthen the institutonal capability
of MED by provision of additional workshops equipment,
electrical laboratories, vehides, computers for the management
Information system and through the training of MED staff. The



3
total area benefiting from the project at appraisal is estimated
to be about 0,85 million feds, but the actual area benefiting
from the project Is 1.4 million feddan.
2.2 Prolect Description:-
The project as it was appraised consisted of the following
components:-
a) Rehabilitation of pumping station
I ) Construction of six new stations, extension of three statfons
for additional capacity, including replacement of equipment In
the stations; and replacement of nine existing floating stations
in upper Egypt with land-based stations .
II) Replacement of the pumps and motors in eight stations.
III) An indicative program to replace electromechanical
equipment, where needed, for the remaining stations and
provide spare parts over,9 period of four years to meet the
overall requirements of MED.
B)I) Provision of 14 light mobile workshops/ electrical
lahoratorles, equipment for central electrical laboratories and
workshops, and standardized tools and testing Instruments for
200 pumping stations
1I) The electrification of cranes,, and provision of new electric
cranes and mechanized trash rack deaning equipment; and
III) Provision of power capacitors for 20 pumping stations to
correct power factor , repair of the existng
80-ton floating dock at Aswan used for the_repair of floating
station barges, which would Indude the replacement of 2 tug
- boot engines and provision of vehides for field operations.



4
C) Civfl works
I)  Construction of new pumping statbons and /or the
extension of existing stations, induding the land based
statlonm. In Upper Egypt.
II) Raising of Inlet and outlet platforms and major
re. iabilltatlon for selected stations under the indicative
program.
HIl) Repairs and rehabilitation, over a period of four years,
for the remaining stations under the indicative program;
and
IV) Construction of new workshops, stores, offices and staff
housing and the repair / rehabilltation of existing facdlities.
d) Provision of additional computer equipment and related
software for MIS !lndlding microware telecommunication
equipment .
e) Technical Assistance and training.
I) Provision of specialized services for the ongoing. MIS
program and fbr the studies related to o8m O&M
Cost, budgets, and the strengthening of MED.
Electrical laboratories .
li) provisions for monitoring flow quallty and studies related to
environmental Issues for the two pumping stations near
Alexandria .
IIJ) overseas training of key MED stoff for MIS, mechanical,
electrical and civil engineering,, and for stores ( financial
and management aspects ) and;
Iv) provision of in - house training programs for
MIS, electrical laboratories, stores and financfal aspects.
3-PEJect Desia  ando
3.1 . The project concept originated from the Irrigation subsector revlew
which recommended that first priority be given to the rehabilitation of



aging pumping statlon to secure the continuation of proper
operations and to prevent production declines . Most of the stations
were old with an average life span ranging between 20 and 50
years, and they were operating with substantial operating and
maintenance costs under adverse conditions including lack of spare
parts, or an adequate maintenance system, and excessive hours of
daily operation . Due to both age and lack of adequate malntenance
facilities, the reliability of these stations to deliver water according to
schedule was dropping at an accelerating rate. The project came at
an opportune time to rehabilitate the pumping stations and to
strengthen the institutional and maintenance capacity of MED for
Implementing an appropriate preventive maintenance system.
3.2 The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of
Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR) was responsible for
implementation of the project. MED manages and operates all
irrigation and drainage pumping stations in Egypt. At present It
operates about 923 pumping stations, consisting of 833 Irrigatlon
stations and 90 drainage stations. In addition, MED manages an
estimated 258 tube wells, which are used for pumping ground water
from wells. The irrigation pumping station rehabilitation project
developed with MED's participation from fdentification stage. As such,
MED was familiar with theproject design and components.
3.3 Project preparation was carried out by a Bank / FAO - Cp.
Mission on 7 August 1989. Subsequently, the appraisal mission visited
Egypt In Oct. 1989.
The appralsal mission endorsed most of the recommendation of the
preparation mission, and with MED's concurrence, it incorporated
Into the project provisions for strengthening MED's institutional
capability to perform preventive maintenance



6
4- Erlectsu
The project's physical objective was fully met, wtth some
changes. The objective of Institutional strengthening In pumping
repair and maintenance was also met. During the execution of the
project and according to the situation oF the pumping stations, MED
asked the Bank for Its no objection to delete some of the pumping
stations Included In the project and replace them by other pumping
stations.
Annex No. 1 attached shows the comparlson between the project
components, which were agreed during appraisal
(SAR Annex II, Table 1,2,3,4) and the actual achieved by the project.
The modifications were found necessary during Implementation due
to changing requirements and priorities of operation and
maintenance. The flexibility of the World Bank supervision team In
respecting to these changes and requests by MED enabled the
optimum use of resources under the project to respond to urgent
requirements of MED.
5- Proect Imnact: -
Maintaining the irrigation and drainage pumping stations In operative
and efficent condton is not only vital for the economy of the
agriculture sector in Egypt, but also to substantially reduce the 0 &
M costs. The project assisted In accomplishing these goals through
(a) improvement In overall pumping efficiency; (b) reduction In
matntenance costs; and (c) enhancement In reliability of pumping
stations. These beneflts were considered for all stations which were
rehabilitated or for which spare parts were supplied.



7
6- Bank Performance:-
The Bank contributed to the success of the project through timely
supervision of the project, and by offering professional advice to MED. The
appraisal mission took a correct decision by including in the project
Institutional strengthening components to enable MED to adopt an
advanced maintenance system.
The Bank sent the supervision missions to the field at appropriate
intervals and kept close contact with the lmplementing agency. As such,
the Bank managed to play a constructive role in solving Implementation
problems, familiarizing MED with the Bank procurement poliaes.
The Bank made the right choice In selecting Irrigation pumping
station rehabilitation as one of the priority lending activities in agriculture,
and assisting Egypt to develop a sound repair and maintenance system as a
prerequisite for sustainability of the country's irrigation and drainage
system.
7-- orrwer Peformanc: -
After the Initial delay in project effecveness, the implementation was
Improved as the MED gained experience with the ICB tendering
procedure and mobilized Its resources to focus on project
implementation. It Is commendable that the borrower was receptive
to the supervision mission's technical advice and agreed to adopt a
flexible approach in selecting pumping statfons for rehabilitation and
repair.



8
8- Proiect Relationship:
The Bank and the borrower maintalned a cordial and good working
relationship  throughout  the project implementation. The excellent
relationship resulted In an expanded project scope and an agreement to
undertake a follow-on project.
9- Lessos Learned:
The degree to which projec objectives were achieved varies, and is
related dlrectly to the level of commitment shown by the government and
the management capability of the project implementation agencies. The
appraisal misslon was over optimistic about the timeframe required for
project implementation
The time allotted for rehabilitation work did not properly consider the slow
contract awarding system and pace of cdvil construction work in Egypt
AJso, establishing a modern repair and maintenance system and creating an
institutional capacity to effectively deal with the maintenance and
Inspection, requires considerable time. A project ( of this nature should be
allowed an unplementation period ) of seven to elght years to accomplish
Its objectives. Also studies related to lnstitu'tional improvement should be
preferably completed in the early stages of the project to allow time for
execution of recommendations and possible- modifications during
implementation.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF E(GYPT                                          TABNEO
Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project Ir
List of New Statigns And StatLons Proposed For Extension
And Replacin Fliganc Wtith Land- Based Stations
UPDAZ"
Directrate   Govemorate  Functon   Area Serve            Station Data
hnce                                       !  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fedd )
Exis ting           Achived
No.  luit Cap.  No.   Uut Cap.   Motor power
A.,ew Stations Reoiadn nN.:-.    . _                                       K
1-  Fraskour                                "Dagahilla                          55000        4       5       4       5         400
2- Ellrad                                   XDagahUla                 e         60000        4       8       4       9         600
3 l- E"Mataria                          Wa          Dagahia                  40          3        8       4       8        550
4- DNAlh                                    X            tsmallb                 5000        1        1      3       2        73,6
5- EI-Abbasa                                            Sharqla                  5000        5      0,25     4       0,5       55
6-   LA                                                    n       _       _    50           3       5       4       55        310
1- Sahel MinIha                                                                  850         1      0,35     2      0,7s      100,7
2- Ata Shmuaa                                                                    600         2      o,5      2      0,7S      74.6
3- Gharb AWnafl                                                                  60a         2      0,25     3      0.75      100,7
4 Sahel El-li ecz                                                                850         1      o,5      2      0,75      67,14
5- SIwa Kebly                                                                    400         2      o,35     2      0,75      74,6
6 El-Sabha                                                                       300         2      0,75     3      0,75      67,14
7- Saiva New                                                                     1200        2      o,25     3      0,85      119,36
8- EI-Baweer                                                                     1200        3      0,5      3      0,85       112
19- Sahe-Edfo New                                                                600                         3       DS        56
1- El-TahadyB                            S.W DeLta       Blehra    Irrgation    15000        4      2,4      4       2,5      220,5
2. El- Tahady C                          S.W.Del         Behera    frrrgaton    10000        3      2.l      3       2,3       180
3- EI-Fath 111                           S.W.dei         Behera    Ifigatlon    1640                         5       2        450
4- El- Kasasstn                          Est Delta       Iaia    Drainage       20000                           4  3          40



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3.1 Projict Cost Summary
SAR ( U5$AO3                                            NMIACHEE) [ US$ '000 ?
A-Rehabilitation of Pumping Stgtion:          local         Foreign      Total                       LOcal        foreiQn       TotaL
- Nemly Rephicd $tatlons                     2 580,3       3 472,6       6 322,9                     6884,318     7 579,337    14 463,65
* BEtnUon & Repaient of E qulpment           1 773,0       3 544,2      5 317,2                       -              .
In Existng Sion
- New land BrAed Ions Replacing              592,3         1 277,4      1 869,7                     2 104,978    1325,731      3 430,709
Floatng 2atns
*Replacment of Equlpment In theEdsUng         1 80,3        5,2480       7 0S2,3                     2479,485     4 231.032     6 710,517
pumong Rafthns
-Rehabilbtio of Remnag Statns                 25.5         6 0Lfi8 824                              27a                        1i,283.D7Q
( Indlcat Prgram )
Sub - Totl                               8 905,4       19,9D2        22 807,5                   13 965,781    25 622,170    39 587,951
B-WorcshoDs Laboratoris & Misc. EguipMent:
* Workshop Equpment                           323,1         907,7        1 230,8                     250,120      145,624       395,744
Elkic Laporates                              207,7         484,6        692,3                      200,250       3 147,5       3,347,750
* Vehides and Heavy Equipment                 600,5         1 409,1      2 009,6                    500,650       392,120      892,770
- Computers and TeecommunicatIon              153,6         615.4        769,2                      120,500       269,oo        389,500
* Mlscellaneous Equlpmet                      2292         2M                                       25942Q        1QQQNQ        2 Q
Sub-Total                               1 564,3      4041,4        5 605,8                    1 330,940     4 954,244    6 285,184
C- Building Facilites:
Sa Housing                                   IQ0..2       nu                                       2 2221I                     7 22058
Sub-Total                                   1 640.9      410.2         2 051,2                    7 220,588                  7 220,588
Q- Technical Assisalnce & Trainino:
* Managemnt lrnomatx Skce                     223,6        353,1         576,9                                       S             -
0,8 M RequMmentSthenng                       129,6        197,3         326,9                                    13,500        13,500
* Evironmental Monbring & SerAce              67,1          84,8         151,9                      23 540                      23,540
Tranining                                     M9i            .3Q0  634.6                       - 
Sub-Total                               560,2         1 130,2       1 690,4                    23 540       36100         58,640



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
I SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198-EGT)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



Economic Re-Evaluation
1.   The economic analysis for the Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (PSRP-II) follows
closely the methodology applied in the SAR and covers therefore only pumping stations under the firm
program. This is a very conservative analysis since by the very flexible nature of the indicative program, the
project has been able to increase the total command area by 73 percent over the original envisaged at
appraisal through expanded intervention in the indicative program.
(i)  Basic Assumptions Underlying the Economic Analysis
(a) Number of Pumping Stations. The project consists of two programs, i.e., the firm and the
indicative. The firm program as outlined in the SAR contained 26 pumping stations. It
has been changed to 19 stations during implementation as the rehabilitation of 2 stations
has been cancelled, 3 pumping stations have been financed under IDA's National
Drainage Project and one pumping station is being financed under the Third Pumping
Stations Rehabilitation Project, and the rehabilitation of one pumping station required
only the replacement of spare parts. On the other hand, 3 additional pumping stations
have been included in the firm program (Tables A and B). In view of the inclusion of
urgently required interventions in the rehabilitation program, the number of pumping
stations which have been rehabilitated under both the firm and the indicative program far
exceeds the number of pumping stations envisaged in the SAR. The rehabilitation under
the indicative program comprised 27 pumping stations (against an appraisal target of 25),
and, during implementation, a further 24 additional pumping station were serviced with
spare parts under the project.
(b)  Command Area: The estimated command area of the firm program in the SAR was
596,510 feddan. Due to the changing priorities of the MED program and the flexible
project design, the actual command area of the stations rehabilitated under the firm
program was reduced to 299,490 feddan, of which 31,490 feddan was associated with
irrigation pumping stations and 268,000 feddan with drainage pumping stations, while the
area under the indicative program was increased several fold. Implemented rehabilitation
work on pumping stations has a total command area of 1,472,136 feddan, of which
299,490 feddan are associated with the firm program and 1,127,646 feddan with the
indicative program. The total command area exceeds the SAR estimate of 850,000feddan
by 73 percent. These numbers do not include the 24 stations which received spare parts.
The command area of these stations amounts to an additional 582,000 feddan, making the
total area benefiting from project intervention about 2.05 million ha.
(c)  All values were expressed in constant 1998 US$ at the 1998 official exchange rate
(LE3.39 = US$1.0).
(d)  The economic life of pumping equipment under the project is assumed to be 16 years; this
is in accordance with the SAR. However, the assumption for the economic life of
pumping stations is generally taken as 30 years.
(ii) Implementation Schedule
2.   The construction of the 19 pumping stations in the firm program commenced between 1994 and 1996.
The disbursement as well as construction period differs for the pumping stations: there are 5 pumping
stations with a 3-year implementation period, 10 pumping stations with a 4-year implementation period, and
4 pumping stations with a 5-year implementation period (Table C). The last disbursement and construction
year for all pumping stations is 1998. Thus, benefits from the firm program are realized in 1999 and beyond.



-2 -
(iii) Calculation of Project Benefits
3.   The project has three main beneficial impacts: first, savings in the form of reducing agricultural
production losses; second, energy savings; and, third, maintenance savings.
4.   Benefits associated with the avoidance of agricultural production losses are determined by the
command area, input and output prices, production intensity and yields.
(a) Command Area: The rehabilitation schedule determines the build-up of the command area, which
is estimated for the firm program at 299,490 feddan in 1999.
(b) Prices: The farmgate prices for agricultural products in economic and financial terms are shown in
Table D. Economic costs are computed on a per feddan basis. Prices and costs of farm production
represent the mid-1998 price level.
(c) Yields and Intensity: Yields as well as cropping patterns are shown in Table D. The calculation of
the cropped area of 599,000 feddan is based on the following assumptions: first, a cropping
intensity of 200%; second, cropping patterns are assumed to be stable over the project's life; and
third, cropping patterns in the command area of drainage and irrigation pumping stations are
assumed identical.
(d) Benefits: The total annual economic net-revenues of the agricultural production associated with
the total command area of the firm program are LE 681.5 million (Table E). It is assumed that
yields would decline by a total of 5 percent during the project, i.e., between 1991 and 2006. Thus,
the annual benefits from the avoidance of production losses due to the rehabilitation work under
the firm program equal 5 percent of the total net-revenues from crop production, i.e., LE
34.1 million, or US$10.0 million (Table E). Following the SAR's assumption, farmers receive
benefits in the first year after completion of the rehabilitation work.
5.   The estimation of benefits from savings in power consumption is determined by the annual power
consumption in kWh, the average number of hours of operation, the number of pumping units per pumping
station, and, subsequently the average number of hours of operation per pumping unit, the efficiency, and the
price of energy.
(a) Power Consumption and Hours of Operation: Because of annual fluctuations in the hours of
operation and power consumption, three year averages (1995-97) have been calculated (Table F).
The three year average for the annual power consumption of all stations of the firm program has
been 31.7 million kWh, and for the annual hours of operation 171,579 hours.
(b) Pumping Units: Under the project, the number of pumping units increased from 42 to 62. Out of
the 20 additional pumping units, 12 pumping units are associated with pumping stations which
have been added to the firm program, and 8 pumping units are associated with changes in the
design of pumping stations which were in the SAR's firm program (Table G).
(c) Efficiency: The average hours of operation per pumping unit are important benchmark for the
calculation of benefits from energy savings. In line with the SAR's economic analysis, it is
assumed that the efficiency of pumping stations declines by 1.5 percent per 5,000 hours of
operation. Applying this assumption to the pumping stations under the firm program, the trend in
the efficiency of each pumping station has been calculated (Table H). The difference between the
efficiency of the stations in the situation with and without project results from changes in the
number of pumping units and an increase in efficiency through the rehabilitation work. While
there is a steady decline in the efficiency in the situation without project, the rehabilitation of
pumping stations under the project shifts the efficiency to 62 percent. This is a conservative
assumption as substantial rehabilitation increases the efficiency of pumping stations commonly to
a minimum of 75 percent. The average efficiency of the old pumping stations requiring



- 3 -
rehabilitation, before the project has been determined from actual tests and flow metering to be 47
percent. During the life of the project, the average efficiency is estimated at 42 percent, i.e. 41
percent for drainage stations and 44 percent for irrigation stations, and 52 percent in the situation
with project, i.e. 52 percent for drainage stations and 53 percent for irrigation stations (Table H).
(d) Power Consumption: The total average annual power consumption in the situation with project is
23.1 million kWh, for drainage stations 20.3 million kWh and for irrigation stations 2.8 million
kWh. Without project, the average annual power consumption is higher and is calculated at 34.2
million kWh, 30.5 million kWh for drainage stations and 3.7 million kWh for irrigation stations
(Table H).
(e) Benefits and Energy Price: The benefits from energy savings in economic terms depend upon the
price of energy. The economic price of one kWh energy is US$0.17 kWh. The average annual
savings from the project in the period between 1999 and 2006 are therefore US$1.1 million, of
which US$1.0 million can be attributed to drainage stations and the balance to irrigation stations
(Table H).
6.   Project Benefits from Savings in Operation and Maintenance Cost: The annual maintenance cost of
pumping stations varies according to the age of the pumps and their maintenance record. For the economic
analysis, it is assumed that both the rehabilitation of pumping stations and the improvements in maintenance
practices lead to annual savings in maintenance costs in the order of 5 percent of the capital cost of the
rehabilitation. Thus, it is assumed that the total annual savings in maintenance costs amount to US$1.2
million.
(iv) Costs
7.   The actual total cost of the firm program is US$23.504 million (in current dollars), of which
US$12.002 million are foreign costs and US$11.502 million local costs. Using the MUV inflation index as
published by the World Bank for the foreign costs and the GDP inflator for the local costs (Table I), the
actual costs have been converted into 1998 price level. In 1998 US$, the total cost of the firm program is
US$24.989 million. The cost stream for each station has been calculated using information provided by MED
(Table C).
(v)   Results
8.   The ERR calculation follows SAR's approach and covers the period from 1991 to 2006. It is based on
incremental benefits and costs for the firm program (Table J). This approach is conservative as: (i) in similar
analysis, the economic life of pumping equipment is commonly set at 30 years and (ii) no salvage value has
been included. However, in order to compare the results of the revised ERR with the SAR's estimate, it is
appropriate to apply the same methodology. Following the SAR's approach for the economic analysis, the ERR
of the project is estimated at 22 percent (against the appraisal ERR of 24%). This achievement is extremely
positive since: (i) changes in the firm program are characterized by a higher decline in the command area than
in costs, and (ii) there have been delays in the implementation of the project. The period covered by the
economic analysis has been extended in a sensitivity analysis to reflect the true economic life of pumping
equipment of 30 years. The ERR based on this assumption is 27 percent and thus higher than the SAR estimate
(Table K).



- 4 -
Table A: Firm Program - SAR and Actual
SAR                                    Actual
Name of Station  Function    Type of      Area         Type of         Area
Rehabilitation*  Served    Rehabilitation*    Served
(feddan)                    (feddan)
Faraskour         Drainage      NC         50,000         NC           50,000
El-Irad           Drainage       NC        60,000         NC           60,000
El-Mattaria       Drainage       NC        40,000         NC           40,000
El-Ballah         Drainage       NC         5,000         NC            5,000
El-Abbassa        Drain/Irr.    NC          5,000         NC            5,000
Salwa-New         Irrigation    NC           200         FLLB             200
El-Kassassin      Drainage       --            --        NC**          20,000
El-Kassaby (Main   Drainage    EXRP        45,000          NC          88,000
Kassaby)
Halq El-Gamal     Drainage     EXRP        55,000     Cancelled***       --
Drain 3           Drainage     EXRP        50,000     Cancelled***       --
Meniha            Irrigation   FLLB          170         FLLB             600
El-Oweinia        Irrigation   FLLB          550      Cancelled***       --
Gharb Aswan       Irrigation   FLLB          220         FLLB             500
Salwa Kelby       Irrigation   FLLB          350         FLLB             500
El-Bower          Irrigation   FLLB          500         FLLB             700
Abou Arafa        Irrigation   FLLB          220      Cancelled***       --
Alia Shonoda      Irrigation   FLLB          500         FLLB             500
El-Rakikeen       Irrigation   FLLB          250      Cancelled***
El-Shabha         Irrigation   FLLB          500          FLLB            700
Sahel-Edfo New    Irrigation     --            --       FLLB**            600
Additional Kassaby  Drainage     CR        65,000      Spare Parts        --
Saft              Drainage       CR        95,000    Financed under      --
Drainage Project
Drain 8           Drainage       CR        90,000     Financed under      --
Drainage Project
El-Tahady B       Irrigation     CR        15,000          CR           15,000
El-Tahady C       Irrigation     CR        10,000          CR           10,000
Sahel El Hegz     Irrigation     CR          550         FLLB             550
Busalia Sabaeya    Drainage      CR         7,000     Financed under     --
Pumps In
El-Domaria Floating Irrigation   CR          500      Cancelled***         --
El Fath 1/1       Irrigation     --            --         CR**           1,640
Sub-Total Irrigation                       32,010                      31,490
Sub-Total Drainage                        564,500                     268,000
Total                                     596,510                     299,490
* NC - New Construction
EXRP - Extension and Replace Equipment in Existing Stations
FLLB - Replacing Floating Stations with Land Based
CR  - Complete Rehabilitation (replacement of electro-mechanical equipment and provision of spare parts)
** New in the Program.
*** Carried out by other financing



Table B: Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II, Firm Program - Details
Station Name     Directorate   Governorate  Function  Area Served       Type of
(in feddan)   Rehabilitation
A - Replacing Existing Stations
Faraskour          East Delta    Dagahilia   Drainage        50,000        NC
El-Irad            East Delta    Dagahilia   Drainage        60,000        NC
El-Mattaria        East Delta    Dagahilia   Drainage        40,000        NC
El-Ballah          East Delta     Ismailia    Drainage        5,000        NC
El-Abbassa         East Delta     Sharqia    Drainage         5,000        NC
El-Kassaby         East Delta     Sharqia    Drainage        88,000        NC
El-Kassassin       East Delta     Ismailia    Drainage       20,000        NC
Sub-Total                                                     268,000
B - Replacing Floating Stations with Land Based
Meniha            Upper Egypt     Aswan    Irrigation          600        FLLB
Alia Shonoda      Upper Egypt     Aswan    Irrigation           500       FLLB
Gharb Aswan       Upper Egypt     Aswan    Irrigation           500       FLLB
Salwa Kebly      Upper Egypt      Aswan    Irigation           500       FLLB
El-Shabha         Upper Egypt     Aswan    Irrigation           700       FLLB
Salwa New        Upper Egypt      Aswan    Irrigation          200        FLLB
El-Bower         Upper Egypt      Aswan    Irrigation           700       FLLB
Sahel-Edfo       Upper Egypt      Aswan    Irrigation           600       FLLB
New
Sahel El-Hegz    Upper Egypt      Aswan    Irrigation           550       FLLB
Sub-Total                                                       4,850
C - Complete Rehabilitation
El-Tahady B        S.W Delta      Behera    Irrigation       15,000        CR
El-Tahady C        S.W Delta      Behera    Irrigation       10,000        CR
El-Fath 1/1        S.W Delta      Behera    Irrigation        1,640        CR
Sub-Total                                                      26,640
Total                                                         299,490
v NC - New Construction
EXRP - Extension and Replace Equipment in Existing Stations
FLLB - Replacing Floating Stations with Land Based
CR - Complete Rehabilitation (replacement of electro-mechanical equipment and provision of spare parts)



Table C: Cost Stream Firm Program (in US$)
1991   1992   1993    1994     1995      1996     1997     1998   1999-2006
A - Replacing Existing Stations
Faraskour                       --    --    --   265,633   354,177  531,266  354,177  265,633
El-Irad                         --    --    --    504,222   672,296 1,008,444  672,296  504,222
El-Mattaria                     --    --    --    500,854  667,805 1,001,708  667,805  500,854
El-Ballah                       --    --    --                         251,033   502,065  920,453
El-Abbassa                       --    --    --    181,618  242,157  363,236  242,157   181,618
El-Kassaby                       --    --    --                         134,151  268,302  491,887
El-Kassassin                    --    --    --                340,774  454,366 1,022,323  454,366
Sub-Total                         --    --    --  1,452,327 2,277,210 3,744,203 3,729,126 3,319,033
B - Replacing Floating Stations with
Land Based
Meniha                                                         55,570   74,093   166,709   74,093
Alia Shonoda                                                   45,729   60,971   137,186   60,971
Gharb Aswan                                                    52,161   69,548   156,482   69,548
Salwa Kebly                                                    63,119   84,159   189,358   84,159
El-Shabha                                                      60,282   80,376   180,846   80,376
Salwa New                                                      61,838   82,450  185,513   82,450
El-Bower                                                       63,119   84,159   189,358   84,159
Sahel-Edfo New                                                 50,464   67,286   151,393   67,286
Sahel El-Hegz                                                  54,349   72,465   163,047   72,465
Sub-Total                          -      -      -          -  506,631  675,507 1,519,892  675,507
C - Complete Rehabilitation
El-Tahady B                                                            253,431   506,861  929,246
El-Tahady C                                                             128,490  256,979  471,128
El-Fath 1/1                                                            458,896  917,791 1,682,617
Sub -Total                         -      -      -          -         -  840,816 1,681,632 3,082,991
Total - In current US$             -      -      -   1,452,327 2,783,841 5,260,526 6,930,649 7,077,531
Total - In 1998 US$                                  1,785,930 3,125,674 5,746,933 7,252,461 7,077,531



Table D: Area, Production and Revenue in Project Area
Cropped     Yields  Production Economic Economic  Economic  Financial  Financial  Financial
Area                           Prices  Gross Rev. Gross Rev.  Prices  Gross Rev. Gross Rev.
('000 feddan)  (mt/fd.)   (mt)    (LE/t)   (LE/fd.)   (LE m)    (LE/t)   (LE/fd.)   (LE m)
Cotton                     63.7       1.00       63.7  3,365.0      3,365      214.2   3,175.0       3,175      202.1
Berseem (long)*            110.9      4.00     443.5    280.0       1,120       124.2    280.0       1,120       124.2
Berseem (short)*            63.5      2.00      127.0    225.0        450        28.6    225.0        450         28.6
Vegetables (summer)**      47.6      12.00      571.2    300.0      3,600       171.4    300.0       3,600       171.4
Vegetables (winter)**       32.0     10.01      320.6    400.0      4,003       128.3    400.0       4,003       128.3
Sugarcane                   2.1      41.10       86.3     99.0      4,069         8.5      95.0      3,905         8.2
Wheat                      96.6       2.00      193.1    700.0      1,400       135.2    667.0       1,334       128.8
Rice                       64.6       2.50      161.4    653.0      1,632       105.4    650.0       1,625       104.9
Maize                      111.8      2.00      223.6    479.0        958       107.1    497.0        994        111.1
Soybeans                    6.3       1.20        7.5   1,066.0     1,276         8.0   1,050.0      1,256         7.9
TOTAL                     599.0                                               1,030.8                          1,015.4
* Prices for cutting per feddan. Long berseem is usually cut four times while
short berseem is cut only twice. Yields of berseem are expressed in number of cuttings.
** Tomato prices have been used as a proxy for all vegetables since tomatoes
Constitute the largest proportion of vegetables production.



Table E: Net Income per Feddan and for Total Command Area, and Benefits (in Economic Terms)
Gross     Cost       Net        Area        Total        Benefits      Benefits
Income              Income    Cropped   Net Revenue         5%            5%
(LE/fd.)  (LE/fd.)  (LE/fd.)    (fd.)    (LE million)  (LE million)  (US$ million)
Cotton                    3,365       880     2,485     63.7           158.17          7.91        2.34
Berseem (long)*           1,120       290       830    110.9            92.03         4.60         1.36
Berseem (short)*           450        290       160     63.5            10.16          0.51        0.15
Vegetables (summer)**     3,600     1,225     2,375     47.6           113.06          5.65        1.67
Vegetables (winter)**     4,003     1,225     2,778     32.0            89.00         4.45         1.32
Sugarcane                 4,069         -     4,069      2.1             8.55         0.43         0.13
Wheat                     1,400       560       840     96.6            81.11         4.06         1.20
Rice                      1,632       600      1,032    64.6            66.65          3.33        0.99
Maize                       958       445       513    111.8            57.38          2.87        0.85
Soybeans                  1,276       425       851      6.3             5.36         0.27         0.08
TOTAL                                                                   681.5         34.1        10.08                         co
* Prices for cutting per feddan. Long berseem is usually cut four times while
Short berseem is cut only twice.
** Tomato prices have been used as a proxy for all vegetables since tomatoes
Constitute the largest proportion of vegetables production.



9
Table F: Power Consumption and Hours of Operation
Station Name               Annual Power Average Annual Power consumption
Consumption Hours of Operation per operating hour
(in kWh)                        (in Kwh)
Average 1995-1997
A - Replacing Existing Stations
27- Faraskour             4,761,000          18,048            264
16 - El-Irad              8,066,385         23,558             342
17 - El-Mattaria          7,714,165          19,249            401
48 - El-Ballah               24,950           2,247             11
28 - El-Abbassa             495,955          12,753             39
35 - El-Kassaby           3,359,783          16,888            199
30 - El-Kassassin         3,712,968          12,848            289
B - Replacing Floating Stations with Land Based
22 - Meniha                   73,598          2,067              36
23 - Alia Shonoda            185,805          2,820              66
20 - Gharb Aswan            433,867           6,474              67
26 - Salwa Kebly             130,210          2,068              63
25 - El-Shabha               290,067          6,499              45
18-SalwaNew                  47,892           1,916             25
21 - El-Bower                 57,560          2,218              26
49 - Sahel-Edfo New              --              --
19- Sahel El-Hegz           277,076           3,990             69
C - Complete Rehabilitation
32 - El-Tahady B           1,981,527         14,979             132
33 - El-Tahady C              92,686          4,071              23
34 - El-Fath 1/1                 --          18,884              --
Total                      31,705,494         171,579            185



- 10 -
Table G: Pumping Units and Operating Hours per Uni
Station Name        Number of Units  Average Annual Operating Hours
per Unit
Without   With      Without          With
Project  Project    Project         Project
A - Replacing Exsting Stations
27-Faraskour               4         4        4,512            4,512
16 - El-Irad               4         4        5,890            5,890
17 - El-Mattaria           3         4        6,416           4,812
48 - El-Ballah             1         3        2,247             749
28 - El-Abbassa            5         4        2,551            3,188
35 - El-Kassaby            3         4        5,629            4,222
30 - El-Kassassin          0         4          --             3,212
B - Replacing Floating Stations with Land Based
22 - Meniha               1         2         2,067            1,034
23-AliaShonoda            2         2         1,410            1,410
20 - Gharb Aswan          2         3         3,237            2,158
26 - Salwa Kebly          2         2         1,034            1,034
25 - El-Shabha            2         3         3,250            2,166
18 - SalwaNew             2        3           958              639
21 - El-Bower             3         3          739              739
49 - Sahel-Edfo New       0         3           --                --
19 - Sahel El-Hegz        1        2          3,990            1,995
C - Complete Rehabilitation
32 - El-Tahady B          4         4          3,745           3,745
33 - El-Tahady C           3        3          1,357            1,357
34 - El-Fath 1/1           0        5           --             3,777
Total             42        62



Table H: Energy Savings in US$
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Average Efficiency
Without project
All Stations (average)       47.0   46.4   45.8   45.1   44.5   43.9   43.3   42.6   42.0   41.4   40.8   40.2   39.5   38.9   38.3   37.7
Drainage Station             47.0   46.1   45.3   44.4   43.5   42.6   41.8   40.9   40.0   39.2   38.3   37.4   36.6   35.7   34.8   33.9
Irrigation Station           47.0   46.5   46.1   45.6   45.1   44.7   44.2   43.7  43.3   42.8   42.4   41.9   41.4   41.0   40.5   40.0
Average Efficiency 1991-2006 42.3 (Drainage 40.5 Irrigation 43.5)
With Project
All Stations (average)       47.0   46.4   45.8   45.1   44.5   43.9  43.3   42.6   58.7   61.6   61.1   60.5   60.0   59.5   59.0   58.5
Drainage Station             47.0   46.1   45.3   44.4   43.5   42.6  41.8   40.9   62.0   61.2   60.5   59.7   59.0   58.2   57.4   56.7
Irrigation Station           47.0   46.5   46.1   45.6   45.1   44.7  44.2   43.7   56.6   61.8   61.4   61.1   60.7   60.3   60.0   59.6
Average Efficiency 1991-2006 52.3 (Drainage 51.6, Irrigation 52.8)
Total Power Consumption (in '000 kWh)
Without Project
All Stations                28,171 28,809 29,479 30,183 30,924 31,705 32,487 33,311 34,182 35,103 36,079 37,116 38,221 39,399 40,660 42,012
Drainage Station            24,852 25,443 26,064 26,718 27,407 28,135 28,863 29,632 30,445 31,307 32,223 33,197 34,235 35,345 36,535 37,814
Irrigation Station           3,319 3,366  3,415  3,465  3,517  3,570  3,624  3,679  3,736  3,795  3,857  3,920  3,986  4,054  4,124  4,198
Total Average Annual Power Consumption 1991-2006: 34,240 (Drainage Stations 30,513; Irrigation: 3,726)
With Project
All Stations                28,171 28,809 29,479 30,183 30,924 31,705 32,487 33,311  15,709 14,799 15,014 15,235 15,464 15,700 15,943  16,195
Drainage Station            24,852 25,443 26,064 26,718 27,407 28,135 28,863 29,632 12,665 12,856 13,053 13,256 13,466 13,683 13,908 14,141
Irrigation Station          3,319 3,366  3,415  3,465  3,517  3,570  3,624  3,679  3,044  1,944  1,961  1,979  1,997  2,016  2,035  2,055
Total Average Annual Power Consumption 1991-2006: 23,070 (Drainage 20,259 Irrigation 2,812)
Energy Savings through Project (in US$ '000)
All Stations                  -     -      -                                          924  1,015  1,053  1,094  1,138  1,185  1,236  1,291
Drainage Stations             -     -      -      -       -      -      -      -      889   923    958    997  1,038  1,083  1,131  1,184
Irrigation Stations           -     -      -      -      -       -      -      -       35     93     95     97     99    102    104    107
Total Average Annual Energy Savings (2000-2006): 1,117 (Drainage 1,025; Irrigation 91)



- 12 -
Table I: Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II, MWV Index and GDP Inflator
F  MUV Index*         Derived           GDP
Year      l   1990 = 100         Inflator        Inflator
1990            100.00            1.21
1991            102.23            1.18             1.48
1992            106.64            1.13             1.38
1993            106.33            1.14             1.32
1994            110.21            1.10             1.27
1995            119.40            1.01             1.18
1996            116.41            1.04             1.12
1997            118.42            1.02             1.06
1998            121.03            1.00             1.00
*Unit value index in US dollar terms of manufatures exported from G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan,
UK, and US), Weighted proportionally to the countries' exports to the developing countries.
Source: Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, The World Bank Business Quarterly



Table J: Economic Analysis - Rate of Return (in constant 1998 US$'000)*
YEAR              1991-93  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
(in US$)
Net Savings from Production Loss   --  --    --    --    --          --    5,670  6,300  6,930  7,561  8,191   8,821  9,451  10,081
Energy Savings                 --      --    --    --    --    --            924  1,015  1,053  1,094  1,138  1,185  1,236  1,291
Maintenance Savings             --     --    --    --    --          --    1,249  1,249  1,249  1,249  1,249  1,249  1,249  1,249
Total Benefits                 --      --    --    --    --          --    7,769  8,491  9,159  9,830 10,504  11,181  11,862 12,547
Investment Cost                 --     1,786  3,126  5,747  7,252  7,078   --      --                 --         --     --
Net Benefits                   --   (1,786) (3,126) (5,747) (7,252) (7,078)  7,843  8,565  9,233  9,904  10,578  11,255  11,936  12,621
ERR                           22%
*    The economic analysis follows the SAR's approach. Thus, the time horizon is limited to 16 years, which is an extremely conservative analysis, since
only eight years of operating life is taken for equipment (compared to 15-16 years actual period) added to which no salvage is considered at the end of the
last year of operation.



Table K: Sensitivity Analysis - Rate of Return (in constant 1998 US$'000) *
YEAR              1991-93  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006-2020
(in US$)
Net Savings from Production Loss   --   --                                   5,670  6,300  6,930  7,561  8,191  8,821  9,451         10,081
Energy Savings                   --     --      --     --      --      --      924   1,015  1,053   1,094   1,138  1,185   1,236      1,291
Maintenance Savings              --     --      --      --     --      --    1,249   1,249   1,249   1,249   1,249   1,249   1,249    1,249
TotalBenefits                   --      --      --     --      --     --    7,769  8,491   9,159  9,830  10,504  11,181  11,862      12,547
Investment Cost                 --      1,786  3,126  5,747  7,252  7,078   --        --     --      --     --      --     --        --
Net Benefits                    --   (1,786) (3,126) (5,747) (7,252) (7,078)  7,843   8,565  9,233   9,904  10,578  11,255  11,936   12,621
ERR                            27%
*     This sensitivity analysis covers a period of 30 years which is consistent with the 30 years economic life of pumping stations in similar projects. The
economic analysis in the SAR report was based on a 16-year period from start of implementation which amounted to only eight years of actual
operation.
* *    This sensitivity analysis does not take benefits from indicative program which would raise the area benefiting from 299,490 feddans to 1,472,136
feddans no.does it take that of small spare parts items which would increase the area benefiting to 2.05 million feddans, thus further increasing ERR.  I



ANNEX D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3198--EGT)
GOVERNMENT'S COMMENTS ON ICR



NQIQSTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER RESOURCS
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL -MPA.RTMENT
"M.E.D"
FAX. TRANSMISSION COVER SHEET
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
FAX. NO, 20/2/2039270
DATE: Feb. 6,1999
TO: Mr. Tigan M. Sallah, ICR Task Leader , Rural Development, Water and
Enviroment Group Middle Eamt and North Africa Region - World Bank
FAX. NO.: 001-202-477 6391
FRCA A: Eng. A.M.Asker, Head of MEID
This Is page (1) of (1) pages being transmitted
(If you do not receive all of the pages, please call back as soon as possible)
TEL: 2039294
SUBJECT: Second Pumplnz Stations Rehabilitation Proiect
"Imlementaton CoMnletion Regort'I ICR'
Dear Sir;
Referring to your letter Dated Jan. 19,1999 concerning the a/m subject,
We would like to inform you that the draft of the "ICR" was reviewed by MED
and we have no objection to proceed with printing the final one.
Thanking you and we are looking forward to receiving the final copies
of   the ICR.
With may best regards
Yours faithfully
Eng-.IM.Asker
1 7 2. 1 eqf
j~~~~~
DATaPt-
cop;  I:



MAP SECTION



30-        a
M  e d i t s rra e  a ne a n 
9~~~~~~~~
El Mohollo e1 KIbr          e        e
@@    *   @.'            e/ea                                        e                             ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
e                             T                                                                 PUMPING STATIONS
\O@eN-e City O                                                                                 REHABILITATION PROJECT 11'
O  e~~~~Th 
* on.oi-.  / Inrigo ti.on Mihing
Rg ti -. l Di-tchr Od4 i-
e ~ ~ ~ ~ e0T
\\;  g   * k    /       __             11               ~~~~~~~~~~~~- MaoprRo-d,
-300                                        oGiz kAIRO                                                          0 rit   ID  Nwoi-l C9pit.
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
<       I                                                /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf  V    0O20ETERS0 5
._~~~~~A                                                                               sue . ~C S_X  ,   =
- __   g    f t                         ~~      ~       ~~~3r  b ]2_       33'
Fey.                                                                                    T. fto S  o l' .
M.di25aOo 86.
29-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(4                                                                                     @
El  ARAl
4  REPUBLIC                 -7
OP                                                       -2'
EGYPT                                                                                                           h 0@
D                       31k3,                                         T  -o..S.l.,1
~~@{1 KoSCUDA



