Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3198 EGT
         (Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 13, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3198 EGT
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 13,  1991, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  part of  the  technical  services  and training required
under the Project shall  be  financed under bilateral arrangements
concluded between the  Borrower  and  official sources of finance;
and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
and Water Resources;
     (b)  "MED" means the Mechanical  and Electrical Department of
the Ministry;
     (c)  "EPADP" means the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects of the Borrower; and
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equiv-
alent to the amount  of  thirty-one million dollars ($31,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the  purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special  account in a commercial bank to
be selected by the Borrower's Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits  into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
Page  3
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on the date immediately  preceding each date speci-
               fied in Section  2.06  of this Agreement, beginning
               with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
               signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
          cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
          time to time, at a  rate  for each Quarter equal to the
          Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined in respect of
          the preceding  Quarter,  plus  one-half  of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect of such
          Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MED with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate engineering,  financial  and administrative practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
Page  4
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance  with  the  implementation  arrangements  set  forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
Page  5
     Section 4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Ministry, in
consultation with the  Bank,  to  prepare:  (a)  by June 30, 1991,
a study of  the  financial  aspects  related  to the operation and
maintenance of  irrigation  and  drainage  systems;  (b) by Decem-
ber 31,  1991,  a  phased  action  plan  to  implement  the agreed
recommendations of such study;  and  (c)  by December 31, 1991, in
accordance with  current  governmental  policy,  a  phased plan to
continue   transferring    to    beneficiaries   the   operational
responsibility for the booster  pumps,  wells and small lift pumps
in the recently reclaimed agricultural land.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01.  The  date  90  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  The  Minister   of  State  for  International
Cooperation or the First  Undersecretary for International Finance
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
          (International Finance Sector)
          8 Adly Street
          Cairo, Egypt
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              Ministry of International        927-23348
                Cooperation
              Cairo
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         197688 (TRT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Page  6
                   By /s/ El Sayed Abdel Raouf El Reedy
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Ram Kumar Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Supply of equip-           25,600,000    100% of foreign
     ment (including                          expenditures and
     spare parts) and                         100% of local
     installation                             expenditures
     works for pumping                        (ex-factory cost)
     stations
(2)  Workshops,                  4,900,000    100% of foreign
     electrical                               expenditures and
     laboratories                             100% of local
     and other mis-                           expenditures
     cellaneous                               (ex-factory cost)
     equipment
(3)  Experts'                       25,000    100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated                   475,000
                                __________
          Total                 31,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  7
     The  objectives  of   the   Project   are:   (a)  to  enhance
agricultural  productivity   by   improving   the   operation  and
maintenance of pumping stations and reducing the cost thereof; and
(b) to strengthen the capacity of MED.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Pumping Stations and Related Facilities
1.   Construction of six  new  pumping  stations, expansion of the
capacity of three  existing  pumping  stations  and replacing nine
floating pumping stations in Upper Egypt with land-based ones.
2.   Replacement of electro-mechanical  equipment in eight pumping
stations.
3.   A program to  repair/replace electro-mechanical equipment in,
and to  make  extensions  to,  about  25  pumping  stations and to
replenish their stock of spare parts.
4.   Provision   of   fourteen    mobile   workshops,   electrical
laboratories, equipment  for  central  electrical laboratories and
workshops, standardized tools  and  testing  instruments for about
200 pumping stations and other miscellaneous equipment.
5.   Electrification of cranes, where needed, and provision of new
electric cranes and mechanized  trash  rack cleaning equipment for
the pumping stations to be rehabilitated under the Project.
6.   Rehabilitation of an existing  80-ton floating dock at Aswan,
including replacement of two tug boat engines.
7.   Construction/repair  of   facilities,   including  workshops,
stores and offices.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.   Provision of  computer  equipment  and  related  software for
MED's ongoing program for  the  operation of a management informa-
tion system.
2.   Provision of technical  services  to support MED's management
information  system,  study  and  complete  a  data-base  for  the
operational  requirements  of   the   Ministry,  strengthen  MED's
electrical laboratories and monitor the quality of effluent of two
pumping stations near  Alexandria  (El-Max  and El-Tabya Stations)
and  provision  of   recommendations   to   minimize  the  adverse
environmental impact of such effluent.
3.   Training  for  MED's  managerial,  technical,  financial  and
administrative staff.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
November  1, 1995                                     565,000
May 1, 1996                                           585,000
November 1, 1996                                      610,000
May 1, 1997                                           635,000
November 1, 1997                                      655,000
May 1, 1998                                           685,000
Page  8
November 1, 1998                                      710,000
May 1, 1999                                           735,000
November 1, 1999                                      765,000
May 1, 2000                                           795,000
November 1, 2000                                      825,000
May 1, 2001                                           855,000
November 1, 2001                                      890,000
May 1, 2002                                           925,000
November 1, 2002                                      960,000
May 1, 2003                                         1,000,000
November 1, 2003                                    1,035,000
May 1, 2004                                         1,075,000
November 1, 2004                                    1,120,000
May 1, 2005                                         1,160,000
November 1, 2005                                    1,205,000
May 1, 2006                                         1,255,000
November 1, 2006                                    1,305,000
May 1, 2007                                         1,355,000
November 1, 2007                                    1,405,000
May 1, 2008                                         1,460,000
November 1, 2008                                    1,515,000
May 1, 2009                                         1,575,000
November 1, 2009                                    1,635,000
May 1, 2010                                         1,705,000
______________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Experts' Services
Page  9
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Construction and expansion of  pumping  stations under Part A
(1)  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried  out  under  contractual
arrangements whereby  the  suppliers  of  machinery  and equipment
shall be  also  responsible  for  the  execution  of related civil
works, installation works and commissioning of the facilities upon
completion.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment and spare  parts required under Part A (3)
of the  Project  may  be  procured:  (a)  under  contracts awarded
through limited international bidding  procedures  on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set  forth  in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines  (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9,  2.55  and 2.56
thereof); or (b) when the  Bank  and  the Borrower agree that such
items  should  be   compatible   with  existing  equipment,  under
contracts to be negotiated with the suppliers thereof.
2.   Civil works for other than the construction or rehabilitation
of pumping stations may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of  competitive  bidding  procedures  advertised  locally in
accordance  with   procedures   satisfactory   to   the  Bank.  In
particular, the Borrower shall  ensure under such procedures that:
(a) representatives of foreign  bidders  shall  be allowed to bid;
(b)  all  bidders  shall  be  treated  equally  in  terms  of  the
requirement of furnishing bid  or  performance bonds; and (c) bids
received after the  date  stipulated  for  the  submission of bids
shall not be considered.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $750,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
Page  10
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Contracting of Experts' Services
     Any experts whose services  may  be  contracted to assist the
Borrower  in  the  carrying   out   of   the  Project  shall  have
qualifications and experience  and  shall  operate  under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                    Implementation Arrangements
A.   Responsibility for Project Implementation
1.   MED shall be responsible for the carrying out of the Project,
with the assistance of  the  concerned departments of the Ministry
and of EPADP.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that the annual allocations for MED
under the general budget shall  be  sufficient for MED to meet its
investment,  staffing  and   operational  requirements  under  the
Project.
3.   The Borrower shall  ensure  the  establishment of appropriate
procedures to enable coordination  between  MED and the Borrower's
Ministry of Industry  and  other  concerned  entities in resolving
technical issues  regarding  industrial  waste  discharged  in the
areas of the two pumping  stations near Alexandria, referred to in
Part B (2) of the Project.
4.   The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  MED  will  assign  to its
Directorate for Studies  and  Specifications  technical staff with
qualifications and in numbers  adequate to enable said Directorate
to carry out its responsibilities  in the day-to-day management of
the Project.
5.   The Borrower shall  ensure:  (a)  by  December  31, 1991, the
establishment within MED, in accordance with an action plan satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, of a Central Directorate for
technical inspection to  undertake  periodic inspection of pumping
stations; (b) until  the  establishment  of  such directorate, the
assignment of technical staff  to  the  Technical Office of MED in
numbers adequate for the carrying  out of such inspection; and (c)
the establishment within MED, not later than December 31, 1991, in
accordance  with  an  organizational   plan  satisfactory  to  the
Borrower and the Bank, of a Central Directorate for civil works to
be  responsible  for   the   design,   execution,  inspection  and
maintenance of civil  works  pertaining  to facilities operated by
MED.
B.   Implementation Requirements
1.   For the implementation of  the  program for rehabilitation of
pumping stations, referred to in  Part  A  (3) of the Project, MED
shall: (a) prepare and  furnish  to  the Bank for its concurrence,
starting in the  year  1992,  two-year  work  plans specifying the
pumping stations to be  rehabilitated  during  each such work plan
period,  together  with  the  estimated  cost  and  implementation
schedule therefor; (b) undertake such rehabilitation in accordance
with such work plan, as it  may  be  modified from time to time by
the agreement of the Bank and MED; (c) by the end of March in each
year, furnish to the Bank,  for  its comments, an annual report on
progress in the carrying out of the work plan in effect, including
an estimate of MED's  budgetary  requirements for the carrying out
of works included in  the  subsequent  fiscal year under such work
plan and for the  operation  and  maintenance of pumping stations;
and (d) prepare its budget  for  such subsequent year on the basis
of such report, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Page  11
2.   The Borrower shall  cause  MED:  (a)  to  monitor, on a semi-
monthly basis for a period starting  in May 1990 and extending for
two years after the commissioning  of the West Treatment Plant for
the city of Alexandria, the  quality  of flow discharged into Lake
Maryut  from  said  Plant  and  study  measures  for  the  further
treatment thereof; and (b) make  arrangements for the carrying out
of such measures.
3.   The Borrower shall  cause  MED:  (a)  to  monitor, on a semi-
monthly basis and for  a  period  of  one  year, starting in March
1991, the quality of  flow  at  various discharge points along the
Abu-Keir Drain, particularly at  points of effluent discharge from
the Rakta and National  Paper  Mills,  and  study measures for the
further treatment  thereof;  and  (b)  make  arrangements  for the
carrying out of such measures.
4.   The Borrower shall  ensure  the  timely availability of funds
required for the  carrying  out  of  the  measures  referred to in
paragraphs (2) and (3) above.
5.   The  Borrower  shall  cause  MED  to  replace  the  El-Owania
Floating Station, included in Part  A  (1)  of the Project, with a
new land-based  station,  to  be  constructed,  together  with the
related facilities, not later than December 31, 1992.
6.   The Borrower shall take, by  December  31, 1991, on the basis
of an organizational  plan  satisfactory  to  the Borrower and the
Bank, all  action  required  to  adequately  staff  the management
information service of MED at its central and regional offices.
7.   MED and the Bank  shall  undertake  a  mid-term review of the
Project on the basis of  a  detailed report on progress in Project
implementation which MED shall prepare  and furnish to the Bank in
June 1994, or such other  date  as  the  Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
Page  12
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  paid  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
               ments and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section 5.02 of the General  Conditions shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
Page  13
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
