                      PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               APPRAISAL STAGE
                                September 20, 2011
                                Report No.: AB6766

Operation Name                            Third Development Policy Loan on Performance and
                                          Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS3)
Region                                    LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Country                                   Dominican Republic
Sector                                    Other social services (39%); Health (33%); General
                                          education sector (28%)
Operation ID                              P125806
Lending Instrument                        Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                               Government of Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency                       Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared                         September 20, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal               September 26, 2011
Estimated Date of Board Approval          November 17, 2011
Corporate Review Decision                 Following the corporate review, the decision was taken
                                          to proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.     Country and Sector Background

The DR has learned from previous crises about the importance of protecting human capital gains
in adverse economic conditions, as the 2003 domestic banking crisis pushed 1.3 million people
into poverty. Previous crisis also resulted in sharp declines in social spending. Spending on
education and health is still low compared to regional standards but has been protected in the
aftermath of the 2003 crisis. The impact of the crisis on social spending and poverty led to
renewed emphasis on the importance of safety nets to mitigate risks and address poverty.

The Government responded by establishing the Solidaridad program, a conditional cash transfer
program aimed at ensuring investments in the human capital of poor households. The
Solidaridad program selects its beneficiaries using the Single Beneficiary Selection System
(SIUBEN), reflecting a shift from universal, unconditional subsidies to targeted transfers. Since
2008/2009, the Government took significant mitigation measures to address the crisis, including
the expansion in coverage of social protection programs, the expansion of the subsidized health
insurance regime, and the implementation of food-related policies.

In the DR, the quality of health care and access to some basic health services need to be further
strengthened. Indeed, although, in general, access to health services is not an issue, quality is an
issue at the first level of care. In education, quality is the main challenge. The DR has one of the
lowest levels of public spending on education in the region and the lowest performance on the
regional standardized exam measuring education quality. Poor performance affects all
socioeconomic groups, but the issues are greater among poorer households.
II.    Operation Objectives

The objectives of this DPL remain consistent with the initial objectives of the PASS series: (i) to
enhance the performance of social sectors to promote human capital (health, nutrition, education)
for the poorest citizens, through a fundamental redesign of the Government’s CCT program,
Solidaridad, and its articulation with critical actions in health and education; (ii) to improve
budget management to support the performance of these social sectors within the CCT program;
(iii) to support the gradual introduction of Performance Agreements in social sectors; and (iv) to
enhance transparency and accountability to users by strengthening the enabling environment for
a better informed demand for improved public sector performance in the social domain.

III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

This proposed DPL is the last operation of a programmatic series of three DPLs developed to
improve results in social sectors, preserving in the short-term and enhancing in the medium-term
the human capital of the poorest citizens (the first two operations were approved in November
2009 and November 2010 respectively). Reforms supported by this series contributed to the
protection of human capital of the poor despite the crises. The first operation established the
conceptual, institutional, and operative revamp of the safety net framework to focus on
promoting human capital investments by poor households. PASS1 also contributed to the
creation of new budget planning mechanisms to improve the targeting of the fiscal resources
dedicated to social transfers and the progressive coverage of supply-gaps in education, health and
nutrition. Critical steps were also taken to initiate results-oriented regional management
agreements in health. The second operation further strengthened the institutionalization of
reforms. It supported the governance arrangements necessary to effectively administer the CCT
Solidaridad and to gradually introduce performance agreements. PASS2 also supported the
creation of the first Medium-Term Public Expenditure Framework to increase predictability,
transparency, and rationalization of the budget, and initiated the implementation of community
scorecards for social accountability.

PASS3 will support selected policy actions to: (i) consolidate the conceptual, institutional, and
operational revamp of the CCT Solidaridad through the systematic verification of CCT co-
responsibilities, while deconcentrating CCT operations to regional and local levels; (ii) initiate a
new, integrated Monitoring and Evaluation System for the entire Social Protection System,
shared across sectors and agencies; (iii) strengthen the internal efficiency and accountability of
health services through new daily, electronic Management Information System; (iv) enhance the
efficiency and quality of education services, through greater deconcentration of resource
allocation, validated student evaluation standards for secondary education, and the establishment
of a School for Principals to promote a new management culture; (v) improve the quality of
service related to the CCT payment mechanism through greater competitiveness and access to
information and improve the accuracy of the targeting mechanism; (vi) improve the accuracy and
increase the coverage of the targeting system by initiating the Second SIUBEN Socioeconomic
Household Study to update the beneficiary registries of all targeted social programs, including
the CCT; (vii) enhance budget management to improve the joint performance of the CCT
Solidaridad to meet output targets, including reductions in supply gaps; (viii) introduce a new
results-oriented approach to program management through the signing of the first performance
agreements for priority health and education programs; (ix) improve access to and understanding
of the national budget through the launch of the free, web-based, user-friendly Consulta
Amigable online budget transparency portal; and (x) enhance citizen participation in and
oversight of social programs through the definition of the expansion of the first social
accountability mechanism of the CCT Solidaridad.


IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                        ($m.)
Borrower/Recipient                                                              0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                          70
Others (specify)                                                                0
                                                                    Total      70


V.     Tranches
                                                                               ($m.)
First Tranche                                                                  70
Second Tranche
                                                                    Total       70


VI.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The implementation of PASS DPL3 will continue to rely on the close coordination of the Bank
team with the respective institutions responsible for the PASS reforms, namely the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Economy, Planning, and Development, the Social Cabinet, the Ministry
of Health, and the Ministry of Education. The PASS series also supports a strong results
framework monitored by these same institutions.

VII.   Risks and Risk Mitigation

Macroeconomic risks: the outlook remains highly uncertain, in light of the economic woes in
Europe and the United States. A spread in the crisis could dampen growth prospects for the
Dominican Republic through a fall in tourist arrivals, lower commodity prices for mining
products, and a collapse in demand for exports. A higher than expected deficit in the electricity
sector could potentially affect Government solvency and contribute to a financing gap.
Mitigation: Mitigating factors include strong macroeconomic management, including growth in
the size and sophistication of the domestic debt market and improved financial and bank
supervision. The financial problems in the public electricity sector remain the principal fiscal
risk. The government is taking measures to address the financial viability of the public electricity
sector, including an increase in tariffs and changes in the management of the distribution
companies. The transition from universal electricity and gas subsidies to targeted subsidies
(which use the SIUBEN and the CCT program) is also part of the solution to energy-related
fiscal constraints.
Political/transition risks: The national elections, set for May 2012, could result in shifts in
priorities and/or in clientelism in the administration of social programs. Mitigation: Reforms
benefit from strong Government and societal ownership. Many of the reforms themselves are
also part of the mitigating strategy, as they aim at institutionalizing key information and
management systems, decision-making processes, and roles and rules. The Government is also
updating its registry of beneficiaries, which uses a transparent proxy-means test to determine
households’ eligibility. The Bank and the IADB will continue to support measures to strengthen
the targeting mechanism and ensure that transfers are progressively made against verification of
co-responsibilities.

Implementation risks: The Government faces capacity constraints in certain areas, and
coordination could slow down some reforms. There are also risks of slow execution and
procurement for some reforms. Mitigation: The capacity constraints are largely mitigated by the
Bank’s NLTA as well as resources from other Bank and IADB operations. Risks of lack of
coordination have been mitigated by: (i) the institutionalization of the CCT Intersectoral and
Interagency Committees at the central level, and of local level pluri-sectoral commissions which
address issues at the local level; (ii) reforms to budget management processes, with budget
requests to meet results targets for the CCT program being jointly formulated by the social
protection, health and education sectors; (iii) the anchoring of the intersectoral coordination of
the CCT around the tools and management of each sector (e.g. education and health Management
Information Systems), rather than creating parallel tools and capacity within the CCT program
management team, and (iv) continued active donor coordination efforts by the Bank and the
IADB in particular. The Government’s commitment to protect funds to bridge supply-gaps is
likely to remain firm, in part thanks to the institutionalized pluri-annual planning exercise. The
publication of budget data and the strengthening of civil society’s capacity to monitor it are
expected to promote budgetary discipline.

Stakeholder opposition risks: Unions representing teachers or doctors and associations of
neighborhood shop owners may oppose some interventions. Mitigation: Intensive training on the
use and usefulness of the information systems are expected to mitigate resistance by health and
education staff. Also, the Government is in the process of scaling up the community scorecards
(with a section on such mechanisms) and has agreed to let a consumers’ advocacy institution
supervise such services.

Natural disasters risks: The DR remains vulnerable to multiple types of natural disasters, which
can affect the poor and have large fiscal impacts. Mitigation: The CCT program supported by
this operation is a key instrument to help the poorest mitigate impacts of shocks on their
consumption and human capital. At the firm and government levels, damage to the major private
sector enterprises is partly covered by their own insurance and the Bank’s assistance covers
natural disaster risk mitigation (Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Loan).
VIII. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts (PSIA)
The PASS operations are expected to have significant and positive distributional impacts. The
analysis suggests substantial positive human capital impacts of the CCT reforms, including an
estimated increase in school enrollment by 6 percentage points and an expected decrease in child
labor by 9.2 percent due to the introduction of education co-responsibilities; new health co-
responsibilities are estimated to double the attendance of children under five by a healthcare
professional, according to the same ex-ante micro-simulation. Positive externalities are also
expected beyond the program through improved targeting, results-based financing, greater
transparency, and complementary health and education efforts.

Environmental Aspects
Consistent with the first and second PASS operations, the actions supported by this proposed
third PASS operation are not likely to generate significant positive or negative effects on the
environment, forests, and other natural resources.

IX.    Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Aline Coudouel
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-3495
Fax: (202) 522-0050
Email: acoudouel@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Roberto Cabañas
Title: Director of Negotiations, General Directorate for Public Credit, Ministry of Finance
Tel: (809) 687-5131 Ext. 2358
Email: rcabanas@creditopublico.gov.do

X.     For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
