 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14793

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 08/24/2015

               Country: Yemen, Republic of
             Project ID: P089259                                                  Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Rainfed Agriculture         Project Costs (US$M):                     33.80               42.71
                         And Livestock Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                         20               21.78
      Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):                      16.70               16.77
                          Development
           Cofinanciers: IFAD                          Board Approval Date :                                 07/06/2006
                                                               Closing Date:             06/30/2012          09/30/2014
          Sector(s):      General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (41%); Central government administration
                          (18%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (15%); Agricultural extension and research
                          (14%); Crops (12%)
          Theme(s):       Rural services and infrastructure (33%); Rural policies and institutions (33%); Rural markets
                          (17%); Other rural development (17%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy John R. Eriksson             Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The original Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of September 11, 2006, framed the Project Development
Objective (PDO) as follows:

The objective of the Project is to enable poor rural producers to improve their production, processing and marketing
systems and protect their assets through the development of farmer based systems of seeds management and
promoting productive rural development within the project area and enhance the livestock husbandry and health
services for the benefit of poor rural producers nationwide.

The Amendment to the DCA of May 2, 2013 framed the PDO as follows:

”The proposed project would enable poor rural producers in rainfed areas to: (a) improve their production, processing
and marketing systems; (b) protect their assets: soil, water, rangeland, seeds and animals; and (c) get organized for
the purpose of (a) and (b) above".

IEG adopts the PDO statement contained in the amended DCA since it is the same in substance as the original DCA
statement but is clearer and more concise. Moreover, this statement of the PDO is aligned exactly with the formulation
of the PDO stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), except that the PAD statement begins with a preamble
that the “three-pronged Project Development Objective [(a)-(c)] contributes to the higher development objectives of
reducing poverty in rural areas and improving natural resources management” (p.3.).

As explained in Sections 3a and 4 below, IEG assesses efficacy against only two of the sub-objectives (a and b).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No
 c. Components:
   There were four components.
Component 1: Farmer-Based System of Seed Improvement and
Management (Approval Cost: US$ 2.92 million and Actual Cost: US$ 3.37 million). The component had three
sub-components. They are: (i) Promoting ex-situ and on-farm conservation of local land races within the project area;
(ii) Carrying out a program for promoting seed producer groups in the project area; and (iii) Enhancing the capacity of
seed producer groups to establish a network for seed delivery and marketing of local land races in the project area.
As part of the June 2012 restructuring, farmer-based seed improvements and management were discontinued, except
for activities related to the establishment of seed producer groups to produce quality land race seeds at the farm level,
and the enhancement of their capacity to establish a network for seed delivery and marketing of local land races

Component 2: Livestock Husbandry and Health Services (Approval Cost: US$ 4.99 million and Actual Cost: US$ 9.63
million)
The component had four sub- components. They are: (i) Enhancing the capacity of the General Directorate of Animal
Resources (GDAR) to develop livestock strategies, policies and regulations, and disease control and diagnosis; (ii)
Rehabilitation and strengthening of national and regional veterinary laboratories; (iii) Design, construction, and
equipment of a live animal quarantine holding ground in Al-Mokha; and (iv) Establishing a public-private partnership
based on a contracting system for sanitary mandate and epidemio-surveillance, and promoting accessible delivery of
veterinary and animal husbandry services and goods to livestock owners.

 As part of the June 2012 restructuring, livestock husbandry and health services – were discontinued, except for
activities relating to the promotion of accessible delivery of veterinary and animal husbandry services and goods to
livestock owners; and (d) the functioning of an epidemio-surveillance network was dropped. In addition, the quarantine
facility at Al-Mokha was expanded to handle the increasing volume of imported livestock through this strategically
located port.

Component 3: Productive Rural Development (Approval Cost: US$ 18.59 million and Actual Cost: US$ 27.49 million)
The component had two sub-components. They are: (i) Enhancing the organizational capacity of poor rural producers
at the community and inter-community levels to improve access to public and private services, as well as input and
output markets; and (ii) Provision of Poor Rural Producer (PRP) Grants to poor rural producer groups.

Component 4 Project Support Unit (PSU): (Approval Cost: US$ 1.34 million and Actual Cost: US$ 2.22 million)
The component had two sub-components. They are provision of equipment, services and operating costs to support
the implementation and management of: (i) Parts A and B of the Project and (ii) Part C of the Project.

Restructuring
The project was restructured thrice, in 08/11/2010, 06/28/2012 and 01/16/2013. While the third restructuring involved
modification and enhancement of selected indicators in the Result Framework and Monitoring of the Project, IEG has
judged that there was no material difference in the impact of the restructuring on the overall PDO.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost:
Total actual project cost was US$ 42.71 million as compared with a total appraised project cost of US$ 33.80 million.

Financing:
The total actual financing was US$ 37.55 million, of which US $ 21.78 million was from IDA and US$ 16.77 was from
IFAD.

Borrower Contribution:
The Borrower contribution decreased from US$ 4.80 million at appraisal to US$ 4.10 million.

Dates:
The project closed on 09/30/2014 instead of 06/30/2012 as originally planned

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial
During conception, the development objective was consistent with GoY’s Second Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) that
targeted agriculture as one of the leading sectors for employment-generating economic growth. The PDO was
coherent with Yemen’s first PRSP (2003- 2005), as well as the government’s Second Five Year Plan, which defined
the country’s development challenges as: (a) high population growth, (b) water scarcity, (c) weak human resources,
and (d) weak institutional capacity. Extensive consultations were carried out to ensure the objective was relevant to
the existing country environment.

At closure, the PDO continued to be relevant with the last CAS (written in FY09) targeted on agricultural productivity
increase in rain-fed areas. The FY13 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) covering FY13-14 had as one of its strategic pillars,
achieving quick wins and protecting the poor by creating short term jobs, restoring basic services, improving access to
social safety nets, and revitalizing the economy.
While the PDO identifies three sub-objectives, IEG will only evaluate in Section 4 achievement of two sub-objectives (
a and b), since IEG views the third sub-component (c) as contributing to achieving (a) and (b).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The project was designed to alleviate rural poverty by targeting producers, including women, operating in the
agriculture sector under rainfed conditions, and in livestock activities.

Governorates were chosen on the basis of the incidence of rural poverty and of the importance of rainfed agriculture.
Many of the design features, including articulation of the project objectives, were built on studies and projects. The
design was founded on a series of studies that were completed in early 2005, such as (a) Farmer - based System of
Seed Improvement and Management in Rainfed Areas, (b) Support to Farmer Groups to Implement
Farmer-Demanded Subprojects, (c) Public-Private Partnership for Livestock Husbandry and Animal Health
Improvement, and (d) Soil Conservation and Water Harvesting. In addition, four World Bank-financed projects that
were particularly relevant to the proposed operation were also considered in the design (Agricultural Sector
Management Support Project (ASMSP) which closed on June 30, 2000; (ii) Seeds and Agricultural Services Project
(SASP) which closed on June 30 2004; (iii) Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project (GSCP); and (iv) Social Fund
for Development (SFD III) (which were ongoing at Appraisal).

The components were appropriately selected to enable achievement of the PDO. For example, Component 3 (Part C)
aimed at: (a) strengthening the capacity of farmers to organize themselves; (b) improving rural producers’ access to
input and output markets and (c) enabling rural producers to earn incomes that they could reinvest in their production
systems.

The original results framework failed to effectively link the outcomes with the PDO, and to capture the on-the-ground
reality of the Project. This led to modifications during the restructuring.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The PDO is to “enable poor rural producers in rain-fed areas to: (a) improve their production, processing and
marketing systems; (b) protect their assets: soil, water, rangeland, seeds and animals; and (c) get organized for the
purpose of (a) and (b) above."

Though the PDO as stated by in Section 2a includes three sub-objectives, IEG assesses efficacy against only two of
the sub-objectives (a and b) on the grounds that the third sub-objective (c) largely contributes to the achievement of
the two sub-objectives (a) and (b). This contribution was further substantiated by a Beneficiary Survey and a
Stakeholder Workshop (Annexes 5-6). which report (under “Comments” for PDO Indicator 4 and paras 60, 95-97 of
the main text) that rural producer groups (RPGs) of various types were key to (1) ensuring accountability of the
service providers to the poor rural producers and to (2) delivery of a range of benefits.

The ICR does not identify external factors that might have potentially contributed to, or detracted from, achievement of
the PDO, with the exception of implications stemming from the severe political upheaval resulting from the Arab
Spring Uprising, which affected the overall Regional portfolio during July 2011 to January 2012. However, the effects
of these implications were more than compensated by the re-engagement with the Government and subsequent
restructuring of the Project. This is the only factor cited by the ICR outside the control of the project that might have
affected its outcome.

(a) Improve production, processing, and marketing systems
Two of 5 Output and 2 of 3 Outcome targets achieved or over -achieved- Substantial

Outputs
1) 2,221 functioning rural producer groups (RPGs), associations or networks formed. (Target was 2,527 RPGs.
Achieved 87.9%).
2) 230 village rural producer committees created and functioning 1 year after the first subprojects were completed
(Target was 230. Achieved 100%).
3) 880 Production sub-projects (Target was 1,720. Achieved 51.2%)
4) 1,233 Marketing sub-projects (Target was 460. Achieved 268.0%)
5)108 Processing sub-projects (Target was 115. Achieved 93.9%)

Outcomes
1) YR 17,150 revenue/capital per beneficiary (group's members) from (a) production subprojects (Target was YR
20,000. Achieved 86% of target)
2) YR 26,750 revenue/capital per beneficiary (group's members) from (b) processing subprojects was (Target was YR
20,000. Achieved 134% of target).
3) YR 20,300 revenue/capital per beneficiary (group's members) from (c) marketing subprojects (Target was YR
20,000. Achieved 102% of target)

(b) Protect assets: soil, water, and rangeland, seeds and animals
Substantial – Six of 7 Output and 3 of 5 Outcome targets achieved or over achieved (no outcome targets given for
sub-categories b-2 and b-3)

Outputs and outcomes are grouped below by 3 sub-categories:

(b-1) Soil, water, and rangeland
Output
674,275 person/day jobs were generated by these investments. (Target was 25,000 person day jobs. Achieved:
2,697.1 %. According to the comment section of the IO #13, severe escalation in socio-political unrest required
changes in the engagement strategy favoring the use of short-term local labor).

Outcomes
417 Ha sustainable land management practices adopted as a result of the project (Target was 140 Ha. Achieved:
297.9%)
213,443 meters (M) of terraces rehabilitated /reused (- Target was 90,000 M. Achieved: 238.3%)
29.5 Ha of upper catchments re-vegetated (Target was 45 Ha. Achieved: 65.6%)
52,000 M of wadi banks protected (Target was 20,000 Ha. Achieved: 260.0% )

Additional outputs for which targets were not identified due to the demand driven nature of the project are: (i) 267
water harvesting structures rehabilitated and/or newly constructed; (ii) 49,691 M3 Walls to protect land against floods;
(iii) 388 Ha Land protected; (iv) 810 Ha benefited from irrigation canals; and (v) 110 Irrigation canals constructed
(page #17, paragraph #66).

(b-2) Seeds
Output
1) 801,000 Kilograms (Kg) of improved seeds produced by seed producer groups (Target was 580,000 Kg. Achieved
138%)
2) 2,187 of landraces characterized and conserved (Target was 2,067 land races. Achieved 105.8%)
3) 5 seed grower associations have contractual arrangements with public or para-public seed certification entities
(Target was 5. Achieved 100%)
4) 70 seed producer groups formed and trained (Target was 90. Achieved 77.8%)

Outcome
Project is estimated to have improved the yields of 60,000 farmers who used improved seeds and seed technology on
a total of 24,000 ha among farmers in Sanaa, Hodaidah, Mahwit and Hajjah Governorates (Page #18 paragraph # 70).
The ICR does not provide the source of information or targets at the outcome level.

(b-3) Animals
Output
1) 60,000 clients of veterinary paraprofessionals in project areas (Target was 59,800. Achieved 100%)
2) 2,400,000 heads of animals/year handling capacity of Al-Mokha quarantine station (Target was 600,000. Achieved
400%).
Outcome
The ICR does not provide evidence to permit a conclusion on the extent to which small holders’ livestock assets were
protected.


5. Efficiency:
  Modest
Economic Efficiency
The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at closure was 11.2 %, while the ex-ante ERR was 17.7%. IEG judged
that though the ex-post ERR is lower than what was indicated in the PAD, the upward benefits stream from project
implementation in a fragile context was evidenced by: (i) incremental revenues from crop and livestock production
activities (component 1 and 2); (ii) erosion control and water conservation; (iii) institutional strengthening of the
communities; (iv) preservation of natural ecosystems and biodiversity; and (v) provision of day- jobs to an at- risk
population.
Quantifiable benefits were noted as follows.
1) The annual benefit from Component 1 was estimated at YR 562,164,960 or US$ 2.6 million through Farm-Level
Income Analysis that estimated the average income increase per hectare
2) Benefits from Component 2 were estimated at 812,142,000 YR (US$3.8 million), using indicative economic results
from the Small holder Agricultural Productivity Enhancement Project as there was no was no quantitative data
available related to the incremental net benefits per client/herder benefiting from better veterinary services under the
Project.
3) Benefits from Component 3 were estimated a total of 141,975,544 YR (US$ 0.7 million) quantifiable benefits
according to the economic study conducted for SAPEP and RGP based on RALP economic activities available at
SFD.
The remaining four benefits were difficult to quantify in monetary terms and, thus, were not included in the economic
analysis, but intangible benefits were noted as follows.
1) Erosion control and water conservation reduced loss of soil productivity
2) Adoption of participatory approaches for local planning and increased ownership and improved control by the
communities of the investments that were put into place for their benefit.
3) Improved production of the rain-fed system from conservation and characterization of 2,187 land races
4) 674,275 day jobs were generated for poor rain-fed-agriculture farmers in a context of a fragile and severely conflict-
affected nation

Administrative Efficiency
The Project’s implementation progress was steady in spite of very difficult country conditions, and effective operation
by the public institutions that delivered services to the farmers was a major factor in this process. These institutions,
though marginally supported by the project, in parallel received financial gains from their contractual deliveries.
Implementation of the Project accelerated after the Bank’s re-engagement, following a suspension of disbursement
from July 2011 to January 2012 and the June 2012 restructuring in response to the government’s request (financing of
a larger quarantine facility, dropping some activities not implemented by the Social Fund for Development (SFD), and
extension of the closing date by 27 months). The Project Support Unit (PSU) and SFD completed all project activities
by the closing date and 99.32 percent of the IDA Credit and 97.63 percent of the International Fund for Agricultural
Development ( IFAD) loan funds were disbursed (in SDR terms) (p. 12 of the ICR).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                     17.7%                                    23%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      11%                                     30%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The overall outcome rating is determined by assessing relevance of objectives and design, efficacy and efficiency.
The relevance of the project objective is rated substantial and project design is rated modest. The efficacy of
achievement of each of project sub-objectives (a) and (b) is rated substantial. However, efficiency is rated modest.
Therefore, outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    Continued worsening of the political situation and disruption of the demand based delivery system due to
vulnerability of institutional arrangements at the national level, including that of the Social Fund for Development
(SFD), pose substantial risks to the development outcome. Additionally, the linkages between the private sector and
communities are likely to weaken because they would require a relatively stable political situation to effectively
operate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
     Project preparation involved extensive consultation with the beneficiaries. The Bank incorporated lessons from
some of the recently closed and on-going projects. Some of the key lessons from these projects were:
i) strengthening the capacity of farmers to organize themselves by offering services to them through a tripartite
contractual arrangement among the rural producer group, the project, and the service provider. The service
provider, in the case of agriculture and livestock, was the staff from the District Agricultural Offices because the
capacity of Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) or the private sector to provide agricultural advice was
limited; and
ii) investing in technologies to increase productivity. In this regard, Component 3 addressed, rural producers’
access to input and output markets and also injected much needed money into the rural economy through its
subprojects (financed on a cost-sharing basis), in particular the labor-intensive rehabilitation of terraces and other
erosion control structures, to enable rural producers to earn incomes that they could reinvest in their production
systems.

The Bank appraised the strengths and weaknesses of the providers, including those of public entities, and
developed implementation arrangements so that two-thirds of the activities relied upon a tested agency, while the
other third developed relatively weaker entities

Project design addressed gender and poverty aspects. For instance, livestock-related activities that were
predominantly women’s activities, and broken terraces and water harvesting infrastructures that had diminished
water assets of the poor.

In retrospect, though risks were clearly identified and mitigation measures were appropriately developed, the Bank
overlooked the high possibility of political turbulence which erupted soon after the project was declared effective in
2008. The evaluation arrangements were weak including the lack of an ex-post cost-benefit analysis for the overall
project. No baseline was established and the PAD does not provide any information in this regard.

The preparation team fell short of adequately capturing the on-the-ground reality of the Project and linking the
intermediate and PDO outcomes with the PDO while designing the original results framework. This required,
modification of the PDO indicators during the restructuring.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision focused on development impact and was responsive to the Bank’s FY13-14 Interim Strategy Note.
After lifting the suspension of disbursement in January 2012, the Bank re-engaged with the government during
implementation and identified opportunities (such as reallocation of funds towards infrastructure works related to
water assets).

Eight supervision missions were undertaken with an appropriate skill and specialist mix (ICR, p. vii). During that
period, the supervision teams regularly provided detailed Aide Memoires, covering among other things, fiduciary
aspects. (see Annex 4).

As part of the 2013 restructuring, the Results Framework was revisited and the PDO indicators were modified to
enable monitoring of the achievement of the PDO and the components (details in section 10 a). However, these
modifications occurred only 19 months before project closure in September 2014.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Government’s performance was very slow towards meeting the Project’s effectiveness conditions. The Project
was declared effective only after about 15 months after project approval in September 2007 due to delays in the
approval of the government legislative body. Once the Project was approved by the legislative body, the GoY
supported implementation arrangements, including appointment of key staff, and initiating restructuring requests.
Government ownership was evidenced by providing counterpart funding exceeding the amount agreed during the
June 2012 restructuring. Senior leaders were available to Bank missions without fail. Adequate budget was not
always provided to some supplier agencies, assessed by the ICR as a “moderate shortcoming” (p.26)..

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    There were two implementation agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) and Social Fund for
Development (SFD). Both were quite committed to achieving the project development objective.
Fiduciary performance (FM and procurement) was adequate throughout the implementation period. Auditors were
chosen at both agencies as planned, and the auditors in their reports indicated that the processes at both the
agencies were reliable. In spite of delays, MAI developed a large quarantine facility and established considerable
coordination, for example with local councils, and extensive involvement of international consultants.

However, SFD was unable to contract out implementation of the micro-finance sub- component to a specialized
implementing agency under the IFAD loan. This led to subsequent reallocation of IFAD funds in agreement with
the Bank and IFAD.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Management Information System (MIS) within the PSU was proposed to serve as a management and
monitoring tool. It covered the management side of the components: financial management (FM), procurement,
disbursement, budget implementation, and contract management as well as project intermediate outcomes.
However, for Component 3, it was monitored through the already established M&E system at SFD that was based on
a computerized management information system.

As part of 2013 restructuring the Results Framework was revisited. The PDO indicators were modified. For example,
while one of the key outcomes was to establish a farmer-based seed production system (which is included in the PDO
of improving their production systems), the indicator at the outset was “number of kg of improved seeds bought”. After
the restructuring, this was replaced by a more appropriate indicator: “number of kg of improved seeds produced by
seed producer groups”.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Bank supervision missions reported M&E data obtained from both implementing agencies. An impact assessment
study with baseline survey and counterfactual was conducted in the first year of implementation to assess the impact
of the subprojects of Component 3, implemented by SFD. It was to measure production performance and agricultural
incomes with a double difference method: with and without project; and before and after project implementation. The
study was relevant as part of project implementation because the village selection was part of project implementation.
The main shortcomings with the above evaluation were that it was: (a) limited to one component (although it was the
biggest); (b) not utilized to make a cost-benefit analysis to measure efficiency (e.g. it did not take cost into account);
and (c) not supplemented by a similar survey at project completion.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E information was oriented towards monitoring of progress by components and re-allocations were made based
on progress.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Environment:

The Project was a category B project and triggered safeguard policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.

Potential environmental effects associated with the planned operations were related to rehabilitation of veterinary
laboratories, construction of the animal quarantine facility, and the small-scale infrastructure relating to water
harvesting and soil conservation. GoY prepared an Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
(EA/EMP), which specified the process and criteria for screening for, and monitoring of, environmental impacts
relating to small-scale infrastructure projects and separate environmental management matrices, one for the animal
quarantine facility and another for the small-scale infrastructure and veterinary laboratories.

Potential negative impacts were monitored and good practice mitigation measures were implemented, specific to the
rehabilitation of veterinary laboratories (by MAI) and small-scale infrastructure (by SFD). Compliance with the EMP
was regularly reported through independent environmental audits by SFD. With regards to the animal quarantine
facility at Al- Mokha, feasibility and background studies were undertaken, and the design was in line with international
standards that covered aspects of good practice measures on environmental and health-related risks in the operation
and management of the quarantine.

Social:
The Project did not trigger social safeguards

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management:
While the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI), through a Project Support Unit (PSU), implemented Components
1 and 2, The Social Fund for Development (SFD) implemented Component 3. The PSU maintained acceptable FM
arrangements in place (qualified staffing; automated accounting system, acceptable FM manual, monthly
reconciliation, and timely reporting). The PSU maintained a segregated Designated Account at the Central Bank of
Yemen for the related IDA funds (IDA 4220-YEM) and used the traditional SOEs as the main disbursement method
beside the Direct Payments and Special Commitments.

The SFD has adequate FM arrangements in place which were utilized to facilitate the implementation of the Project
(qualified staffing, a developed accounting system, and comprehensive tools for internal control, monthly
reconciliation, internal audit, and timely reporting). The SFD maintained two segregated Designated Accounts at an
acceptable commercial bank in the country for the related project funds (one for each fund: IDA 4220-YEM & IFAD
C1170). The SFD used the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) as the disbursement method for IDA funds, whereas the
traditional method of the SOEs was used for IFAD funds. All previous audit reports were submitted to the World Bank
and were found acceptable. (p.14 ICR)

Procurement:
According to the desk based procurement post-review and most payment reviews of the subject project transactions
indicated that funds were claimed for eligible expenditures, properly recorded and reported, and related supporting
documents were in order and filed accordingly. The performance of the Project Support Unit (PSU) procurement staff
throughout the Project was generally fair, as ratings shifted between satisfactory (S) and moderately satisfactory
(MS). The lower ratings were largely because of the disbursement suspension by the World Bank (from July 2011 to
January 2012).(p.14 ICR)

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
NONE

d. Other:
NONE


12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 A simple project design that promotes active participation of the beneficiaries resulting in a demand - based
delivery system is highly appropriate for fragile and conflict states . As such the subject Project design was relevant
for addressing a sustainable rainfed agriculture system in a very dry and water-scarce country, and was effective in
addressing this agro system that had been ignored by the GoY and the donor community.

Assess implementation capabilities carefully , including procurement capacity and / or to receive the required
training. Bank should undertake stocktaking of skills within the implementing agencies and start redressing them
even before the project becomes effective. In more general terms, the Bank should carry out capacity building
assessments for the implementing agencies and provide adequate training to carry out the implementation.
Capacity should be the critical element for consideration while assigning entities with responsibilities.

Improve monitoring and evaluation designs so that analysis indicated in the project appraisal document (PAD)
could be replicated at Completion . M&E design should allow for comparability of analyses and calculation of
efficiency at completion. For the subject project, the Bank had developed complex models for cost-benefit analysis
at appraisal stage. However, the M&E design did not include evaluation efforts that could replicate the ex-ante
analysis, or gather the data to measure efficiency. According to the ICR, the Bank might have assumed that the
Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission would be an appropriate time to make a thorough analysis of what was needed for
evaluation. However, such an analysis was never undertaken throughout the Project. The focus was on monitoring
progress and impact analysis limited to one component, and that was without taking cost into account. A thorough
analysis of the requirements for an adequate ex-post evaluation should be undertaken at the Mid-Term Review at
the latest.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a summary of project preparation and implementation, thus providing the reader a good idea of
project activities and problems faced. Annex #7 provides A Borrower ICR. Stakeholders are well defined. The ICR
gives adequate attention to poverty, gender and social issues. The lessons are derived from project experience.

However, the ICR contains a number of editing errors. For instance, there is a discrepancy between figures reported
in the Data Sheet and the main text in paragraph 64 on page 13.

The ICR falls short of candor while reporting in certain sections. For example:

Page #26, paragraph #105 in Section (a) Government Performance: the ICR fails to report clearly on how the
counterpart funding exceeded the agreed amount in the said page and to provide reference on the matter in Annex 1.
(“Ownership that included providing counterpart funding exceeding what was agreed during the June 2012
restructuring”. This is not supported in Annex 1).
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
