Document of
The World Bank
Repot No. 13537-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1994
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Operations Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 1994)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         =  Rp 2,155
Rp I million = US$464
FISCAL YEAR/ACADEMIC YEAR
April I - March 31/July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS         -  National Development Planning Board
BAPPEDA          -  Regional Development Planning Agency
BKPM             -  Investment Coordinating Board
BPLK             -  Center for Finance Education and Training, MOF
BPPT             -  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
EEO              -  Educational Exchange Organization
GOI              -  Government of Indonesia
LIPI             -  Indonesian Institute of Sciences
LPND             -  Non-Departmental Government Research Institute
MENPAN           -  State Ministry of Utilization of State Apparatus
MOEC             -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF              -  Ministry of Finance
NASTOT           -  National Steering Team for Overseas Training
OTO              -  Overseas Training Office, BAPPENAS
PHRDP I          -  Professional Human Resource Development Project (Loan 3134-IND)
PHRDP II         -  Second Professional Human Resource Development Project
PIU              -  Project Implementation Unit
PJPT             -  25-Year Long term Plan (PJPT 11 - 1994/95-2018/19)
R&D              -  Research and Development
REPELITA         -  Five-Year Development Plan (REPELITA VI - 1994/95-1998/99)
S1, S2, and S3    -  Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral Degrees, respectively
S&T              -  Sciznce and Technology
SOE              -  Statement of Expenditures
STAID            -  Science and Technology for Industrial Development
TMPP             -  Development Planning and Management Techniques
TOEFL            -  Test of English as a Foreign Language
TORs             -  Terms of Reference
TPA              -  Academic Potential Test
URGE             -  University Research for Graduate Education Project (Loan 3754-IND)



i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY   .........................   iii
I. PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT  ...                                   ....... 1
A. Economic Background ...................                            ,       . . 1
B. Research and Development in Science and Technology  ....                  .........  1
C. Human Resource Sector Background   ........................  2
D. Major Issues in Professional Human Resource Development ...                 .......  3
E. Government Policies for Professional Human Resource Development ....  4
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED ...........                                         6
A. Background  ........................................  6
B. Lessons of Experience   .................................  7
C. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement ................  8
III. THE PROJECT   ....................................... 9
A. Project Objectives  ....................................   9
B. Project Components and Description .........................  9
Fellowships and Training  .............................. 10
National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT)  ....               ..... 15
C. Project Management and Implementation  ...................... 15
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation  .......................... 18
E. Project Sustainability  .................................. 19
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
AND DISBURSEMENT   ................................. 20
A. Costs ............................................. 20
*   B. Financing   .         ........................................ 22
C. Procurement . ........................................ 22
D. Disbursement .           ...................................... 24
E. Accounts, Audits, and Reports  ............................ 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in June/July 1994,
comprising Messrs. M.H. You (Economist, Task Manager), Eamonn Darcy (Training Specialist), David
Clark (Economist, Consultant), Erik Thulstrup (Science and R&D Specialist, Consultant), and Naoshi
Kira (Project Assistant, Consultant). Peer reviewers were Messrs. William Rees, Lauritz Holm-Nielsen,
and Zafiris Tzannatos. Mmes. Marianne Haug, Director, EA3DR, and Himelda Martinez, Chief,
EA3PH, have endorsed the project.



ii
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................. 26
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ... ..... 27
LisT OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
1.1 Comparison of Science and Technology Statistics in Asia
3.1 Consultant Services Requirements
4.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component
4.2 Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
4.3 Financing Plan
4.4 Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
1 Composition of the Civil Service, 1985, 1990, & 1992
2 GOI's Overseas Fellowships and Training during REPELITA V (1989/90-1993/94)
3 Bank-Financed Education and Training Projects
4   Placement Targets of Fellowships and Training Programs under PHRDP I and II by
Component, Type of Program, and Planned Distribution
5 International and National Consultant Requirements
6 Project Implementation Schedule
7 Planned Supervision Schedule
8 Project Quality Indicators and Quantitative Targets
9 Monitoring and Evaluation
10 Detailed Project Cost Estimates-Expenditure Accounts by Year and Project
Component
11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
CHARTS
1 Organizational Structure of PHRDP II
2 Organizational Structure of OTO PIU
3 Organizational Structure of MOF PIU
4 Organizational Structure of STAID PIU



iii
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Implementing
Agency:            Overseas Training Office (OTO), BAPPENAS; Ministry of Finance
(MOF); Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT) representing Science and Technology for Industrial
Development (STAID); and National Steering Team for Overseas
Training (NASTOT)
Poverty:           Not applicable
Amount:            US$69.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:  0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:    See para. 4.6 in SAR
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 13537-IND



iv
Estimated Costs:                         Local       Foreign     Total
-------------- US$ million------------
Fellowships and Training
Overseas Training Office (OTO)          11.7        15.9       27.6
Ministry of Finance (MOF)               5.5         11.7        17.2
Science & Technology for Industrial
Development (STAID)                   14.8         24.8       39.6
Subtotal                             32.0         52.4       84.4
NASTOT                                     0.5          0.1        0.6
Total Base Costs                     32.5         52.5       85.0
Physical Contingencies                   1.6         2.6        4.2
Price Contingencies                     3.5          2.3        5.8
Total Costs /a                       37.6         57.4       95.0
Financing Plan:
GOI                                    23.0          3.0       26.0
IBRD                                    14.6        54.4       69.0
Total Costs /a                       37.6         57.4       95.0
/a Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.2 million equivalent.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Annual            5.0    15.0    15.0    13.0    11.0       7.5     2.5
Cumulative        5.0    20.0    35.0    48.0    59.0    66.5    69.0



I. PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
A. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.1         Indonesia has achieved an impressive long term GDP growth rate, averaging
over 6 percent annually in the past 25 years.  In recent years, structural reforms
successfully laid the foundation for the diversification of the economy and during this time
Indonesian economic growth has been led by the private sector. During the 1980s, there
was substantial industrial development with non-oil manufacturing expanding at an average
rate of over 12 percent per year. Nearly 80 percent of the increase in exports came from
low-wage, low-technology industries, such as textiles and footwear, and natural resources-
based manufactures, such as wood or basic metal products. It is generally agreed that
Indonesia cannot maintain its export growth without further structural change and a shift
in the economy toward higher value-added manufactures.
1.2         To sustain growth under the Second 25-year Long-Term Plan 1994-2018
(PJPT II) will require well educated and highly skilled professional, managerial, scientific
and technical staff throughout the economy, both in the public and private sectors. Further
structural transformation will put great demands on both government and industry. The
skill needs in key ministries will be greatly affected as the role of government continues
to change from one of regulation and control to that of implementing policies of
deregulation and developing policies that encourage and facilitate private sector growth.
Government officials will be increasingly called upon to administer new government
policies, such as new trade regulations and changed tax laws, with an increasingly
sophisticated private sector. Decentralization of government planning and the move toward
provision of government services on a demand-driven basis will require increasing skills
and knowledge by government officials at the local level. Industry will face more complex
government policies and a more open internationally competitive environment.
1.3         The shift toward a more open economy and higher value-added manufactures
will also require an industrial system with a strengthening technology base and a
substantial base of well educated and trained science and technology (S&T) manpower.
Such persons must be capable of keeping abreast of scientific and technological innovations
world-wide and able to, and in a position to, adapt advanced technologies for industrial
development in Indonesia in an environmentally responsible way.
B.   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
1.4         S&T for industrial development is still in its early stages. Indonesia is
lacking an industrial system with a strong technology base. As noted above the majority
of the industries that have contributed to the past economic development are low
technology industries; only a small portion of industry utilizes medium or high technology.
Four-fifths of Indonesia's medium and large scale manufacturing firms have no scientists
or engineers educated to the 3-year post secondary diploma (D3) level or higher. Of the
scientists and engineers working in industry in 1991, 45 percent had a D3 diploma,



2
52 percent had a bachelor's (SI) degree, and only the remaining 3 percent had either a
master's (S2) or doctoral (S3) degree. 1/
1.5         In terms of some indicators of S&T development, Indonesia, as compared
to other countries in Asia, has a very small percentage of its GDP devoted to research and
development (R&D); only a small share (20 percent) of that R&D is conducted by the
private sector; and the number of researchers in S&T as a proportion of the population is
very low (Table 1).
Table 1.1: COMPAR1SON ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY STATISlCS IN ASmA
Research
Country       Expenditures   Ratio to GNP  Government Share   No. of Researchers
(Year)       (in US$ billion)   (%)            (%)           (per 1,000 people)
Korea (1990)      5.0            1.9           16                  3.7
Taiwan (1990)     2.5            1.7           46                  3.8
Singapore (1990)    0.3          0.9           46                  3.0
India (1990)      6.1            0.8           77                  0.3
Indonesia (1991)    0.2          0.2           80                   1.6
Source: National Science Foundation, Human Resources for S&T: The Asia Rezion, 1993.
STAID/BPPT, S&T Indicators of Indonesia, 1993.
1.6         The Government of Indonesia (GOI) began to pursue technological
development with a concentrated effort in the mid-1970s. A four-stage technological
development model proposed during that time has since provided the direction for S&T
policy. These four stages are: (a) utilization of existing technology; (b) integration of
existing technology; (c) implementation of applied research to improve existing
technologies and development of new technologies; and (d) development of basic research
capabilities to support applied research.
C. HUMAN RESOURCE SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.7         The development of human resources in Indonesia has in the past two
decades focused on providing basic education to the broadest segment of the population.
Such sound policies have had high payoffs with regards to economic and social
development. At the same time, Indonesia's higher education system has developed
rapidly from a small base in the early post-war period (enrolling about 2,000 students) to
a full fledged system (1.9 million students in 1992, more than two-thirds studying in
1/  These data include state-owned enterprises as well as those in the private sector.



3
private universities). The enrollment ratio grew from 1 percent in 1970 to 10.5 percent
in 1993. This expansion, however, has been primarily at the undergraduate level, with
only limited graduate education programs. In 1991, there were 7,700 places in S2
programs, and about 1,100 places in S3 programs. Graduate program enrollments
constitute 0.7 percent of total undergraduate enrollment in Indonesia, compared with
2.4 percent in Thailand; 2.7 percent in Brazil; 3.3 percent in Mexico; 3.2 percent in
China; and 5.7 percent in Korea. As noted in para. 1.9, domestic graduate programs are
in the process of improving and expanding.
D. MAJOR ISSUES IN PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
1.8         Lack of Professional, Technical and Managerial Staff. The current stock
of professional, managerial, and technical manpower is not adequate to meet the needs of
economic development and growth. Most employees simply did not have the opportunity
for graduate education. Even the government sector, which until recently hired most
Indonesians with a higher education, and still has the largest stock of workers with a
university degree, does not have the stock of high level professional, managerial, and
technical manpower needed to staff a modern economy. Of the 3.9 million civil servants
(which include teachers and university staff totalling about 1.5 million) in 1992, only about
17.2 percent had an academic degree and the percentage with an S2 or S3 degree was
about 7.3 percent (of the 3.9 million) (See Annex 1.). Similar information for the private
sector is not available. There is still only a relatively small stock of high level scientists
and engineers in the economy, and almost all of them work in the public sector. Of the
total number of persons outside the higher education system holding a degree in natural
science or engineering, only 3.8 percent held an S2 or S3 degree in 1991. Ninety to
95 percent of non-academic scientists and engineers work for government or a state
enterprise.
1.9         Improving Domestic Graduate Education Programs. In recent years,
domestic graduate programs have been expanded and improved, to a large extent with
Bank funding (para. 2.3). There are now graduate faculties in 22 public and 37 private
universities and institutions. The graduate programs tend to be in business, business-
related fields and economics, particularly in the private universities, with fewer programs
in S&T. The flow of high level graduates out of the educational system into the economy
is still quite small, and does not yet contain all of the high level skills necessary for further
economic development.  The solution up to now has largely centered on sending
Indonesians overseas for graduate education; for example, almost all of the degree
fellowships provided under the existing professional human resource development project
(PHRDP I) have been for overseas education. Graduate education in Indonesia has been
improving but it is still not yet capable of producing all types of high level manpower
requirements needed to sustain growth toward the coming century; there is still a need for
overseas fellowships in many fields of study. On the other hand, graduate education for
many fields is available, in private as well as public universities. More use of appropriate
high quality domestic graduate programs by projects with fellowship components, such as
PHRDP II would not only be more cost-effective, but also beneficial for the further



4
development of the country's graduate programs because it would provide the universities
with additional qualified and motivated students.
1.10        Utilization of Civfl Service. At the same time that upgrading of civil
service staff is going on, ineffective utilization of civil service staff continues, due to an
inflexible system of career development, inefficient management systems, and low
remuneration for civil servants. The inflexible system of the civil service is one reason
for inefficient utilization of some returnees of fellowship programs.
1.11        Civil Service Fellowships-Not the Answer to Overall Manpower
Shortages. The ongoing PHRDP I provides fellowships to civil servants who have at least
two to three years of service. Planning for the fellowships is based on what the particular
agencies need and the work that the particular fellows are expected to be doing three, four,
or perhaps five years later. Such a fellowship scheme does not serve the needs of the
entire economy. Conservative estimates indicate that in 1993 there were approximately
4,000 university teaching staff and civil servant fellows enrolled in overseas degree
programs, almost all funded by external assistance (see Annex 2). Almost all government-
funded overseas fellowships available to Indonesians have been for civil servants, and very
few are available for individuals who are neither a civil servant nor an employee of a
public enterprise. Data for 1991 showed that about 4 percent of government scientists held
an S2 or S3, but less than 0.1 percent entered government with such a degree. Since
almost all high level scientists and engineers work for the government, it is no
exaggeration to say that currently virtually the only source of high level technical
manpower to the economy is fellowships to government employees. A balanced strategy
for human resource development should include an increased supply of high level
manpower for both the public and private sectors.
1.12        Furthermore, such a fellowship scheme may not be selecting the best and
brightest candidates. The processes of selecting civil servants is a limiting factor to
selecting the best candidates. Open merit-based competition for available fellowship
positions would ensure that the best candidates are chosen.  The likely aggregated
manpower needs and trends used at the time of selection, to determine fields of study for
fellows would need to be updated periodically. Actual job openings at the time the
fellowship holder completes the degree would then determine where this individual and his
or her high level skills could best be used in the economy.
E. GOVERNMENT POLICIES FOR PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
1.13        The Government has been following a balanced strategy toward educational
development. It has expanded access to primary and secondary education and the
enrolment ratio now stands at 117 percent for primary education and 45 percent for
secondary. The Government has just begun implementing a nine-year basic education
program, which extends basic education to junior secondary education (grades 7-9), as well
as its programs to improve the quality of basic education. The Government recognizes the
importance of extended 9-year basic education as the critical foundation for human
resource development. Regarding higher education and higher level professional human
resources the Government is following a dual strategy: (a) supporting the growth and
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -----   --



5
qualitative improvement of domestic undergraduate and graduate education in the long run;
and (b) meeting immediate shortages through fellowships in the short run. The
Government's fellowship policy, often assisted by Bank financing, has been to upgrade the
current stock of manpower: retrain or upgrade existing civil servants through overseas
fellowships to meet the high level manpower needs of the economy-needs that have not
been met by the normal workings of the educational system prior to employment in the
civil service.
1.14        In the broader human resource sector, major government themes to increase
the quality of human resources and economic efficiency, including industrial development
policies, have been laid out in all three major government planning documents: (a) 1993
Guidelines of State Policies (GBHN); (b) Sixth Five-Year Development Plan 1994-1998
(Repelita VI); and (c) Second 25-year Long-term Plan (PJPT II). In these plans, the
Government aims to strengthen its capacity in making and managing policies and providing
public services at national and local levels. The Government has issued three Government
Decrees in April 1994 on education and training for professional development designed to
improve the quality of civil service performance through better training and career
development for staff.2/   The Government intends to  support the successful
implementation of these policies by improving the capabilities of professional, technical,
and managerial staff using overseas and domestic training programs.
1.15        In the S&T sector, the four-stage technological development model (para.
1.6) has become the national S&T policy for the PJPT II. The Government is promoting
the increase of research and development (R&D) in both public and private sectors, and
aims to increase the share of R&D financed by the private sector considerably, from the
current 20 percent, by the end of PJPT II in 2018/19. The immediate objectives during
Repelita VI are improving the capability to utilize, develop, and adapt and keep abreast
of S&T by increasing the technology transfer capability, supported by a better quality of
human resources, and encouraging participatory research between public and the private
sectors. While the long-term goals for S&T development are to focus on the private
sector, short-term strategies are to strengthen goverrnent S&T institutions, particularly
the LPNDs by building up the stock of high level technical manpower in those institutes,
improving their management systems, and putting an emphasis on their linkages to
industry.
2/  They are Govermnent Decrees, No. 14 on Education and Training of Position for Civil
Servants; No. 15 on Appointment of Civil Servants to Structural Positions; and No. 16 on
Functional Positions of Civil Servants.



6
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. BACKGROUND
2.1         Since the early 1970s, the Bank has financed 31 education and training
projects, amounting to total loans of US$1,882 million. Of these, 20 projects have been
implemented through the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) with total loans/
credits of about US$1,277 million, while the remaining 11 projects have been implemented
through several other ministries for the development of specialist and professional training
services with a total value of US$598 million (See Annex 3).
2.2         In the higher education subsector the Bank has taken a broad view of
sectoral needs. There have been six loans that have supported fellowship programs to
increase the current quality and quantity of high level manpower and five loans to higher
education projects designed to increase domestic capacity to produce such skills in the
future.
2.3         The higher education projects to increase current capacity have been: (a) the
First University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND), which supported investments to
strengthen university management and to raise the quality and number of graduates in
selected fields at three specific public universities; (b) the Second University Development
Project (Loan 2547-IND), which supported the establishmnent of 16 new Inter-University
Centers (IUCs) to develop research and advanced training capacity in emerging inter-
disciplinary scientific and technological fields; (c) the First and Second Higher Education
Development Projects (Loans 2944-IND and 331 1-IND), which financed three-year time-
slices of broad-based subsectoral programs to address a wide range of issues; and (d) the
recently approved University Research for Graduate Education (URGE) Project (Loan
3754-IND), which will focus exclusively on qualitative improvements of university
research and graduate education through the establishment of a variety of incentive
systems, in order to improve the domestic capacity for graduate education.
2.4         The training and overseas fellowship projects to upgrade the professional,
technical and managerial capacity of civil servants have been:  (a) the Science and
Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND), which supported staff development for
LPNDs and was coordinated by the Agency for the Assessment and Application of
Technology (BPPT): and (b) the Professional Human Resource Development Project
(PHRDP I, Loan 3134-IND), the precursor to the proposed PHRDP II. In addition, the
Bank has assisted in more specialized projects which have contained a substantial number
of overseas fellowships, including assistance to upgrade accountants and financial
management (Loan 2940-IND), human resources development associated with the tree
crops subsector (Loan 2992-IND), and professional personnel in the Ministry of Public
Works (Loans 2258-IND and 3112-IND).



7
B. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
2.5         Specific lessons from previous Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report 3/ have been
continually feeding into succeeding fellowship project design. For example, useful lessons
have been learned about institutional development, such as to:  (a) locate Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) within existing structures; (b) ensure the early appointment
and continuity of key project staff; (c) ensure adequate coordination and communication
among implementing agencies; and (d) provide pre-departure language training to overseas
fellows.
2.6          The primary goal of the first PHRDP, upon which the proposed project is
based, has been to improve the quality of professional, technical, and managerial staff
capabilities. The bulk of the loan amount was devoted to overseas fellowships for civil
servants, and in a few cases, employees of state-owned strategic industries, private
universities and hospitals. The implementation of the ongoing PHRDP I has been
satisfactory. Fellowships have been closely monitored, selected candidates were of good
quality, most completed their degrees, and virtually all returned to Indonesia. The large
amount of consultant services utilized in the project for capacity building and studies was
beneficial. The Science and Technology for Industrial Development (STAID) component
of the project produced policy studies which have been used as inputs into implementation
measures by the Government, Bank and other donors, and new management and
administration systems, which have either been implemented or tested on a pilot basis.
Overseas Training Office (OTO) and STAID components have started longitudinal studies
on the beneficiaries of their respective fellowship programs in order to improve the
utilization of returnees.
2.7         Major lessons learned from the ongoing PHRDP I, as well as the Science
and Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND),4/ are the importance of: (a) a
balanced strategy for high level human resource development, which would support an
increased supply of high level manpower available to the entire economy, not just the
public sector; (b) more use of appropriate domestic graduate programs, which would not
only be more cost-effective, but also beneficial for the development of such programs since
it would provide them with additional funds as well as qualified and motivated students;
(c) improved utilization of fellowship returnees; (d) more use of self-financing among the
LPNDs, which make them more operationally flexible and responsive to the needs of
private industries; and (e) improved institutional arrangements for:  (i) the overall
coordination of graduate degree training for all civil servants which is not being effectively
addressed by the reconstituted National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT);
and (ii) the monitoring of performance for the project components to stay within budget
limits and not to r,ommit expenditures beyond the end of the project.
3/  Impact Evaluation Report: Indonesia: Sustainability of the First and Second Education
Projects, Report No. 767, 1989.
4/  The Project Completion Report: Indonesia: Science and Technology Training Project, Report
No. 12560.



8
2.8         The design of the proposed project has incorporated the above lessons in the
following ways:  (a) each component would provide, on a pilot basis, overseas
fellowships 5/ for fresh SI graduates, on a pilot basis; (b) each component would utilize
in-country graduate programs where appropriate; (c) STAID would strengthen already
developed measures, while OTO and Ministry of Finance (MOF) are developing specific
measures, to improve the utilization of returnees from fellowship programs; and
(d) NASTOT is being strengthened and supported to better perform its role.
2.9         Governments in East Asia, including Singapore, Republic of Korea, and
Japan, have all made wide use of overseas fellowships to upgrade the capabilities of their
work force and to meet the needs of a rapidly changing world economy. In most countries
these policies are continuing. These countries see the benefits of continuing a program of
overseas training to further their economic development, even after their own university
system is of high quality. Such experience would appear to justify a continued but limited
use of overseas fellowships by the Indonesian government even as domestic universities
continue to develop and grow.
C. BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.10        As highlighted in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia
which was presented to the Executive Directors on April 12, 1994, human resource
development is a key objective. In line with this objective, the Bank is supporting a higher
education portfolio consisting of: (a) well-focused investment projects that address areas
of specific weaknesses within a long-term policy framework, such as the recently approved
URGE project which focuses on the weaknesses of university research and graduate
education; and (b) sectoral investment projects, such as the ongoing Second Higher
Education Development Project and the proposed Industrial Technology Development
Project which would support technology development in the private sector, and which is
complementary to the STAID component under the proposed PHRDP II.
2.11        The proposed PHRDP II is an investment program for human resource
development that focuses on specific weaknesses, namely the lack of professional,
managerial, and technical personnel necessary to manage the changing economy to sustain
growth in Indonesia. PHRDP I and other earlier related projects have focused on broad-
based education and training for civil servants. The proposed PHRDP II would conclude
the Bank's support for the special program of overseas fellowships for civil servants
(which do not have a specific sector or project focus, e.g., university lecturers and
financial sector experts) and provide a basis for planning a new type of competitive
overseas fellowship program for individuals to serve the needs of the entire economy. As
such it would complement the URGE project, which includes over 900 open merit-based
fellowships for fresh SI graduates to attend domestic graduate programs in order to
improve the quality of domestic graduate programs and to augment the flows of high level
manpower to the economy.
5/  The URGE project includes over 900 open merit-based fellowships for domestic graduate
programs.



9
2.12        Furthermore, the civil service fellowships in the proposed PHRDP II have
been prepared within the framework of the Bank's larger involvement in Indonesia's higher
education and training strategies, overall human resource development policies, and civil
service reforms. In particular, the project would call for utilizing domestic graduate
education for upgrading civil servants where appropriate programs exist and developing
realistic strategies for more efficient utilization of high level manpower in the public
sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1         The proposed project is a follow-up of the ongoing PHRDP I and has these
objectives: to foster economic development and industrialization and facilitate policies of
deregulation and decentralization by upgrading the quality of professional, managerial, and
science and technology staff in key government ministries and agencies both at local and
national levels and, on a limited scale, in the private sector.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
3.2         The proposed project would comprise the following two components:
Fellowships and Training Component consisting of three subcomponents with a similar
range of activities but for different client groups and subject areas: (a) Overseas Training
Office (OTO); (b) Ministry of Finance (MOF); and (c) Science and Technology for
Industrial Development (STAID). The three subcomponents would: (a) provide domestic
and overseas degree and non-degree fellowships to professional, managerial, and science
and technology staff of key government ministries and agencies at national and local levels;
(b) provide overseas fellowships in appropriate professional, managerial and technical
subjects not yet available in Indonesia to fresh SI graduates, on a pilot basis; (c) improve
reentry procedures for the utilization of past, present, and future fellowship holders; and
(d) facilitate overseas degree and non-degree programs of private and public firms by
making available such services as testing, placement, and monitoring.
The National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT) Component which would
help NASTOT play a more effective role in formulating policy, coordinating and
monitoring the civil service fellowships and the pilot programs for fresh S1 graduates, and
undertaking the studies to lead to development of a possible new merit-based national
fellowship scheme.



10
Fellowships and Training (Total Estimated Cost US$94.3 million including
contingencies)
3.3         Domestic and Overseas Graduate Degree Programs for Civil Servants.
The objective of the proposed OTO subcomponent would be to provide graduate education
and training in development planning, policy analysis, and development management for
selected staff at key ministries and agencies, such as the National Development Planning
Board (BAPPENAS), Institute for Public Administration, the Ministries of Home Affairs
and Public Works, Regional Development Planning Agencies (BAPPEDAs), and selected
NGOs. The OTO subcomponent would support 166 fellows in graduate degree programs,
including 49 in domestic universities, and 107 overseas.
3.4         The objective of the proposed MOF subcomponent would be to provide
graduate education and training in finance and monetary policy, economic planning,
financial management, and international trade for selected staff of MOF, the Investment
Coordinating Board (BKPM), and the Ministries of Industry, Trade, and Foreign Affairs.
The MOF subcomponent would support 185 fellows in graduate degree programs, 65 in
domestic universities and 120 overseas.
3.5         The objectives of the STAID subcomponent would be to upgrade the quality
of S&T and related management staff in LPNDs and the Ministries of Agriculture and
Industry. The STAID subcomponent would support 130 fellowships each for domestic and
overseas graduate degree programs. The areas of study to be supported would be
prioritized for S&T programs related to economic and industrial development in line with
national development objectives.
3.6         A fellow would be sent to a domestic university when an appropriate study
program of sufficient quality is available; if an appropriate domestic program is not
available the fellow can be sent overseas. Neither OTO nor MOF subcomponents used
domestic graduate programs for its fellowship program during PHRDP I. The shift toward
the use of domestic programs, when appropriate programs are available, would not only
be more cost effective, but would also help to enhance the quality of domestic graduate
programs through the participation of motivated, high-quality students.  During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the criteria and procedures for all three
subcomponents, acceptable to the Bank, by which applicants would be directed to a
domestic or overseas graduate degree program would be provided to the Bank by April 30,
1995 [para. 6. 1(a)], (see Annex 4 for the distribution of domestic and overseas fellowships
under PHRDP I and planned for PHRDP II). In addition to the new fellowships described
above the component would also finance the completion of S3, S2, and S1 overseas
fellows whose education started during PHRDP I and who are now in training.
3.7         Domestic and Overseas Non-degree Programs. The OTO subcomponent
would also support 1,085 domestic and 50 overseas non-degree fellowships for civil
servants, a very substantial change from PHRDP I (where OTO supported 450 overseas
non-degree and no domestic non-degree fellowships). The change toward such a large
number of non-degree programs, largely domestic, is because of a new focus and new
responsibilities given to OTO. All of the non-degree programs would either be training



11
of BAPPEDA level II staff in regional development planning and management techniques
(TMPP) or training or upgrading of the instructors that teach such courses. The TMPP
courses support the move toward decentralization of government decision making. All
basic and intermediate TMPP courses are three-months long and are conducted at local
universities. The TMPP courses are not new but have been implemented by OTO under
other projects. An outside evaluation of the TMPP basic course found it to be useful and
that the skills of the participants had been significantly improved.
3.8         The MOF subcomponent would support 75 domestic and 60 overseas non-
degree fellowships for civil servants. The non-degree domestic courses are new and are
offered for Si graduates who are working as junior researcher or junior trainer, or for
structural staff up to the level of echelon IV. Fields of study for the domestic non-degree
programs would include such areas as taxation and tax auditing, property appraisal, capital
markets, and bank supervision. The overseas non-degree courses are refresher courses for
civil servants and returnees who have completed 2 - 3 years of work following their
return. The courses are mainly for staff who are working as a trainer, researcher, or in
an echelon III or IV policy-making structural position and are for those who are already
fluent in the language of training.
3.9         The proposed STAID subcomponent would provide 50 fellowships each for
domestic and overseas non-degree programs for civil servants working in LPNDs and the
Ministries of Agriculture and Industry. Domestic non-degree training would focus on
management and technical skills available at an acceptable quality in Indonesia, such as
personnel management, quality assurance, or energy conservation. Overseas non-degree
training would be carried out during three months courses which would focus on a range
of advanced technical skills not available in Indonesia such as aeronautics, industrial
pollution control, or biotechnology.
3.10        Graduate Link Programs. The OTO would develop a domestic/overseas
Link program for 10 fellows for one or more domestic universities. The Link program
would provide graduate education to OTO fellows in development planning, policy
analysis, or development management, and through this process strengthen graduate studies
in these fields by assisting the domestic school develop links with an appropriate foreign
institution.
3.11        STAID would develop four new Link programs for 10 doctorate and 51
master's fellowships.  The objectives of the STAID Link programs would be to:
(a) improve institutional coordination between domestic and overseas universities; and
(b) develop additional S&T graduate education capacity in universities relevant to the skill
needs of LPNDs and industry in Indonesia. A graduate Link program consists of a
combined study program at domestic and overseas universities and in one case it would
be planned to have the overseas university include an overseas research institute in the
cooperation. Support for developing Link programs would include the costs of curriculum
development, honoraria to Indonesian university staff to ensure that they spend at least half
of their time teaching on the programs, and overseas visits. The proposed project would
work with domestic universities to continue to develop new graduate S&T degree programs
relevant to the needs of LPNDs. The proposed project would also work closely with the



12
Sandwich program of the URGE project which provides support to domestic universities
for graduate education through formal collaboration with overeseas universities.
3.12        Overseas Fellowships for Fresh Domestic SI Graduates. In addition to
civil servant fellowships (paras. 3.3 - 3. 11), the OTO, MOF and STAID subcomponents
would each provide 30 overseas fellowships to fresh domestic SI graduates, on a pilot
basis. The fellowships from the OTO would be for graduate study in development
planning, policy analysis, and development management; those from the MOF would be
for graduate study in finance and monetary policy, economic planning, financial
management, and international trade. The fellowships from STAID would be for S&T
graduate programs to assist with the improvement of S&T, management and technical
skills in industry. Lessons would be learned from the experience of this pilot scheme to
demonstrate how a general, national competitive fellowship scheme could be implemented.
The fellowships for fresh domestic S 1 graduates would be restricted to study programs and
technical areas not yet available in sufficient quality in Indonesia. Fellows would be
selected on an open merit-based system and have available the same services and level of
support given to civil service overseas fellows. Selected candidates would also make their
own arrangements to reach a specified language requirement before entering project funded
pre-departure training (para. 3.19). Fellowships for fresh SI graduates would be financed
100 percent by the project. During negotiations, the Government agreed to establish
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the selection of candidates and placement of
returnees by April 30, 1995 [para. 6. 1(b)].
3.13        Improved Utilization of Civil Service Returnees from Domestic and
Overseas Graduate Fellowships Programs. All subcomponents would improve their
reentry procedures to improve the utilization of past, present, and future returnees from
civil service fellowship programs. OTO's pilot reentry study 6/ of its returnees showed,
on the average, significant positive effects of the graduate education they received under
their OTO fellowship. The study showed some problems of utilization: (a) almost one-
fourth found themselves with no job description or formal position on their return; and
(b) too many subsequent job changes were to new jobs not related to their training (over
three-fourths of the sample of returnees had subsequently changed jobs, often quite quickly
after returning). MOF's reentry assessment 7/ pointed to, on one hand, still significant
needs for higher professional and managerial capabilities of MOF staff, but, on the other
hand, a small but significant percentage of fellowship returnees whose skills and abilities
were not now being fully utilized in their current job. In addition to the study, there has
been attention drawn to administrative problems regarding some returnees whereby the
original work unit, where a returnee was working prior to his or her fellowship, refused
to give up the fellow even though his or her new skills could be better used elsewhere.
6/  Completed in April, 1993. A full-scale study of all of OTO's alumni, financed by USAID
is now underway.
7/  Finance Education and Training Agency, MOF, "Re-entry Assessment of Overseas Training
in Ministry of Finance Component under the World Bank Funding", Jakarta, 1993.



13
3.14        The OTO and MOF subcomponents do not have direct control over the
personnel policies of their beneficiary institutions. The OTO and MOF subcomponents
are attempting to deal with the problems elaborated in paragraph 3.13, and thereby
improve the utilization of each returnee by: (a) requiring that each organization sending
a participant to an overseas or domestic university submit a commitment letter
guaranteeing that an appropriate job description and career path be prepared for the
participant and that an appropriate job will be available to the participant on return. Once
Government Regulation 14/1994 (PP14) is sufficiently elaborated its provisions regarding
job descriptions and career development may well be reflected in the guarantee letters; and
(b) periodically transmitting academic progress reports and estimated completion dates to
the participant's organization so that the organization can better prepare for his or her
return to Indonesia. To better deal with its own utilization issue MOF is preparing to
implement a pooling arrangement by which fellows upon returning to the Ministry will be
allocated within the Ministry where their new skills can best be utilized.
3.15        STAID also does not have direct control over the personnel policies of its
beneficiary institutions. Nevertheless, through the project implementation arrangements
STAID is planning to further improve the utilization of returnees in the LPNDs and the
relevant ministries to meet the objective that returnees would be given the opportunity to
work to their capacity. This objective would be attained through specific measures
designed in the context of overall systems for all staff. General personnel systems (job
descriptions, job performance appraisal and career planning) would be implemented in
those organizations where there is a critical mass of returned fellows. The improvement
in general systems would be supplemented by the implementation of additional specific
measures to improve the reentry and utilization of returnees, in particular, recruitment to
a post relevant to their skills, training of supervisors of returnees, a reorientation program
for returnees, and a program to transfer new knowledge to colleagues. In the case of the
LPNDs, the following measures would also be included where possible and appropriate:
(a) returnees in BPPT and LIPI would be placed in industry as part of their training for
three to six months during the first two years after their return, during which time they
would gain potentially valuable experience and transfer knowledge to industry; and
(b) returnees would be released to assist education institutes to develop Link graduate
degree programs (para. 3.1 1).
3.16        Overseas Fellowship Services to Public and Private Firms.  Under
PHRDP II fellowships would no longer be provided to employees of publicly owned firms.
Instead, the OTO, MOF and STAID subcomponents would offer essential services, such
as testing, placement, and monitoring, to public and private firms who wish, at the firm's
expense, to send their employees overseas for degree or non-degree training. These
services would be provided free of charge to firms. OTO expects that consulting firms
specializing in development planning, policy analysis, and development management would
avail themselves of these services. MOF expects that as a result of the expanding nature
of Indonesia's financial sector there will be considerable demand for these services.
STAID expects demand for these services from public industries and from expanding,
high-technology private firms. Steps would be taken to publicize the availability of support
services for employees of firms.



14
3.17        For the proposed three subcomponents, the project would finance domestic
and overseas graduate degree and non-degree training programs, and project management
costs. Also, for OTO and STAID subcomponents combined, the project would finance
48 staff months of related international and 126 staff months of local consultant services
for studies, coordination of language training, testing and selection procedures, project
management, and conducting impact studies.
3.18        Operational Procedures for the Fellowship Programs for Civil Servants
(applicable to all the PlUs).  The procedures would, with some modifications
(para. 3.19), be administered in accordance with existing procedures which have been
refined during PHRDP I and are considered to be satisfactory, covering such matters as
nomination, selection, pre-departure training, placement, financial arrangements, and
evaluation. The process of nomination for OTO, MOF and STAID fellowships would
reflect the training priorities of their client ministries and agencies. OTO's selection of
fellows from those nominated would be based on the Academic Potential Test (TPA), an
English capability test, supplemented by academic records and competitive interview.
MOF's selection of fellows from those nominated would be first based on the TPA, given
with the cooperation of OTO, a psychological test, and an English capability test. The
available fellowships go to the best nominees. MOF pre-departure training would include
language skills, mathematics, economics, statistics and computer applications, as in
PHRDP I. STAID gives a TPA test modified for its candidates; a psychological test and
an English capability test; this plus the record of work performance and a competitive
interview all make up the selection process.
3.19        A new modification is regarding pre-departure language training for OTO,
MOF and STAID overseas fellowship programs. As under PHRDP I, applicants to be
selected as potential overseas fellows for an English speaking country must have a
minimum TOEFL score of 375. Under PHRDP I such individuals were then eligible for
project-funded pre-departure training including further language training.  Under the
proposed PHRDP II, individuals selected as potential overseas fellows for programs
conducted in English would need to undergo further English instruction on their own. The
English language standard for entrance into pre-departure training would a TOEFL score
of 426. Once they enter project-funded pre-departure training they would undergo
language training to bring their score to 527 to 550 which is sufficient to enter graduate
programs in English-speaking countries. This change in the language training process has
been designed to contribute to cost recovery in the project and test the motivation of
prospective fellows. For other languages, a similar process would be implemented
whereby prospective fellows share in the cost of reaching the level for entry to graduate
programs. In order to assist fellows who have completed graduate degrees to obtain
relevant industrial experience overseas without additional cost to the project, the project
could approve an additional stay of one year during which the fellows would work for a
salary.



15
National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT) Component (Total
Estimated Cost: US$0.7 million including contingencies)
3.20        Under the proposed project the capacity of NASTOT would be strengthened
in formulating policy, coordinating the civil service fellowship programs, monitoring the
pilot fellowship programs for fresh S1 graduates, and undertaking the studies and other
preparatory matters necessary before the Government can begin to undertake a merit-based
national fellowship scheme. The proposed subcomponent would support: (a) a larger role
for NASTOT and its Working Groups than was undertaken during PHRDP I; and
(b) research activities and study tours necessary to assist NASTOT in planning a possible
merit-based general fellowship program for implementation after the end of PHRDP II.
TORs for studies on a competitive national fellowship scheme would be sent to the Bank
for review, and comment by September 30, 1995. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurance that: (a) the studies would be completed by September 30, 1997; and
(b) the major findings and recommendations of the studies would be discussed with the
Bank and the Bank's comments and suggestions would be incorporated in the final report,
as appropriate [para. 6.1 (c)]. The project would finance the monitoring and feasibility
studies to be carried out by NASTOT.
3.21        Consultant Services. The capacity of OTO, MOF, and STAID significantly
increased during PHRDP I. The primary objectives of the proposed consultant services
for OTO and STAID are to continue to assist institutional capacity building, policy strategy
development and project implementation. Under the PHRDP II, consultant services would
only be used to assist ministry and agency staff who would have primary responsibility for
strictly defined tasks. The increased institutional capacity is reflected in the substantial
reduction of consultant services proposed for the project. Under PHRDP I, 350 staff-
months of international and 254 staff-months of national consultants have been used (for
those activities which are being continued in PHRDP II), whereas in the proposed project
48 staff-months of international and 126 staff-months of national consultants would be used
(see Table 3.1 on page 15 and Annex 5 for details). During negotiations, the Government
provided assurance that consultants for OTO and STAID would be selected by April 30,
1995 under TORs acceptable to the Bank [para. 6.1(d)].
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.22        At the national level, NASTOT, chaired by the Vice Chairman of
BAPPENAS, which was established under PHRDP I, would continue to facilitate the
overall implementation of the project and would be responsible for policy formulation and
coordination. It would also coordinate and monitor the pilot programs for fresh S1
graduates. The staff of the Secretariat would be responsible for the implementation of its
project activities under the direction of the Secretary of NASTOT (see Chart 1). During
negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the Secretariat would be strengthened
by adding at least one professional staff by April 30, 1995 [para. 6.1(e)].



16
Table 3.1: Summary of Consultants' Services
Subcomponent/Class of TA        International              National
person-month            person-month
OTO
Institutional Development           12
Project Implementation              -                       36
STAID
Institutional Development           36
Project Implementation              -                       90
Total                             48                      126
3.23        The Fellowships and Training component would be managed by OTO,
MOF and STAID PIUs for their respective subcomponents using the structures and many
of the experienced staff developed under PHRDP I (see Charts 2, 3 and 4).
3.24        The OTO subcomponent would be the direct responsibility of the Director
of OTO, who is concurrently Deputy Chairman for Administration in BAPPENAS. The
OTO is a non-structural entity and the staff are either BAPPENAS staff assigned to OTO
posts or appointed as project staff. The MOF subcomponent would continue to be
coordinated by a Steering Committee consisting of the Head of BPLK, the Secretary
Generals of the Ministries of Finance, Industry, Trade and Foreign Affairs, and the
Secretary of BKPM. The STAID subcomponent is coordinated and managed by the
Deputy for Administration of BPPT as STAID Program Coordinator to whom the PIU
reports. The STAID Program Coordinator and PIU are supported by the Coordination
Committee representing beneficiary organizations and by a management assistance unit.
3.25        Some of the implementation steps for the fresh SI graduates fellowship
program would be carried out in common for all three fellowship components, while others
would remain the responsibility of the separate PIUs. A committee consisting of the three
fellowship implementation units plus the Directorate General of Higher Education
(DGHE), under the responsibility of NASTOT, would be responsible for identifying
appropriate fields of study to be supported. Advertising for and testing of applicants, and
pre-departure training of candidates would be pooled.  Placement in programs and
monitoring of fellows would be carried out by each PIU. There would be cooperation
between all PIUs regarding the placement of returned fellows.
3.26        Responsibility for overall coordination of activities and for liaison with the
Bank would rest with the PIU Directors who would:  (a) monitor and coordinate
disbursement of the loan; (b) provide annual progress reports to the NASTOT who would



17
integrate them and provide one report to the Bank; (c) raise issues requiring attention
including provision of the government counterpart funds; (d) submit withdrawal
applications to the Bank; (e) arrange for timely project accounts audits and technical
audits; (f) prepare the implementation completion report; and (g) participate directly in the
management of local and overseas staff development programs and consultant services, and
related project performance monitoring activities.
3.27        Educational Exchange Organizations (EEOs). The PIUs for OTO, MOF,
and STAID have good experience of managing fellowship and training programs under
PHRDP I, and, therefore, would continue to manage the respective fellowship programs.
The three PIUs are in the process of gradually transferring many of the activities
previously undertaken by EEOs to project staff. This transfer of responsibilities would
continue during the course of the project. The aim of the project is to decrease the
responsibilities of the EEOs to essential services such as insurance cover and emergency
support. During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that administrative
arrangements for overseas fellowship management, acceptable to the Bank, would be
completed by April 30, 1995 [para. 6. 1 (f)].
3.28        Cost Recovery.  Overseas fellowship program costs (including tuition,
subsistence and travel) for the employees of public and private companies would be met
100 percent from non-government sources. As described in para. 3.16, the project would
make fellowship selection, placement, and monitoring services available free of charge.
In addition, the Government agreed to shorten pre-departure training to six to eight months
from the current one year by raising the minimum foreign language requirement for
participation in project funded training (e.g., in the case of English, to a TOEFL score of
426 from the current 375) (para. 3.19). This is considered to be another form of cost-
sharing by civil servant participants in which those who want to obtain fellowships first
have to pay for language courses by themselves in order to meet the language requirement
for participation in a fellowship program.
3.29        Status of Project Preparation.  Project proposals were submitted and
revised during project preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. Policies on civil
service fellowship training are agreed, including selection, pre-departure training,
placement, monitoring and reporting criteria for fellowships, allowances and reentry.
Suitable candidates are either available or are being prepared to become the first batch of
fellows for 1995 academic year. The outline of the scheme to implement the new pilot
overseas fellowship program for fresh domestic S 1 graduates has been agreed. New
measures have been agreed to further improve the utilization of returnees. Fields of study
for Link program under STAID are being identified. The management structure for each
sub-PIU for the STAID component is being strengthened. The capacity of each PIU to
implement project activities has been increased during PHRDP I and is satisfactory.
3.30        Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of five years starting April 1, 1995 and ending March 31, 2000. A project
activities and implementation schedule (see Annex 6) and detailed project cost estimates
(para. 4.1) would serve as the basis for project implementation planning and would be
updated annually by NASTOT and the PIU Directors in cooperation with Bank Staff (see



18
Annex 7 for planned Bank supervision schedule). The closing date of the project would
be September 30, 2000.
3.31        Environment. No negative environmental impacts of the proposed project
are expected (Class C). There are no civil works financed in the project. The fellowship
and training programs would include domestic and overseas degree and non-degree
programs in environmental conservation and control as one of the areas of studies, and
scientists and engineers studying in-country and abroad would be trained in
environmentally sound practices within their fields. The net environmental impact would
thus be positive.
3.32        Impact on Women. The Government intends to place a high priority on
the provision of services for women. The fellowships and training programs have set
separate targets for the coverage of female participants, which are 25 percent for OTO,
20 percent for MOF, and 15 percent for STAID. In each case, the fellowship target for
women is set at a higher ratio than the percentage of women in suitable positions in the
respective component agencies. These targets would be monitored during implementation
(page 3 of Annex 8).
D. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.33        Performance Indicators. Detailed performance indicators (see Annex 9),
agreed with the Government at negotiations, would be used as a basis for reporting.
Monitoring and auditing systems would be implemented by all PIUs.
3.34        Progress Reports and Annual Review. Annual progress reports for the
period ending March 31 each project year, would be prepared by each PIU and integrated
by NASTOT for submission to the Bank by April 30 of each year. Data from the
performance indicators would be incorporated in the progress reports, as appropriate. The
reports would contain a review of the previous activities against the annual plan and make
recommendations to improve project implementation as necessary. Each year, a seminar
would be held to discuss these reports and the plan for the next year. The Bank would
participate in the seminars. During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that
beginning March 31, 1996, the annual project implementation plan would be sent to the
Bank for review and comments by March 31, of each year [para. 6. 1(g)].
3.35        Mid-Term Review. This would be conducted as a basis for decision on
future investment in professional human resource development particularly for a new
merit-based national overseas fellowship scheme for the country. The mid-term review
would be conducted by September 30, 1997, in accordance with TORs acceptable to the
Bank and the report on the findings and recommendations would be furnished to the Bank
by December 31, 1997 [para. 6.1(h)].
3.36        Impact Studies. The proposed PHRDP II would be a complex project with
several very different objectives. The fellowships range from three-month training for
local BAPPEDA officials (para. 3.7), to Master's degree program for some of best and



19
brightest men and women in the country (para. 3.12). In between these extremes is
graduate degree and non-degree retraining for government officials. Proper impact studies
of these various interventions are important in principle but difficult to implement in
practice.  Considerable data have already been collected about the effects of project
fellowships. All the PIUs in PHRDP I have conducted reentry studies. These studies
have largely focussed on asking former fellows, or the fellow's supervisor, if the education
is being used or whether it has made an impact on the fellow's performance at work. The
results of the reentry studies have been successfully used to improve the programs and can
be used to some extent to identify the impact of the fellowships. There have been some
case studies compiled about fellows who became "agents of development". As part of the
Implementation Completion Report for PHRDP I the PIUs are being asked to compile data
on the impact-including the economic effect of their various programs-using whatever
data have already been collected and, if feasible, adding information from additional
studies. This work is expected to be completed soon after March 31, 1995, the closing
of the PHRDP I.
3.37        All PIUs would continue the reentry studies and collect additional
information during PHRDP II. In particular, STAID would begin monitoring professional
contributions such as published papers and patents. In addition, the PIUs would make
studies about the impact and, to the extent possible, the cost effectiveness or economic
impact of the various types of fellowships that they will have supported. It is too early to
specify how those studies should be made, but for planning purposes an outline of the
overall evaluation process is presented in Annex 9. The planning of these studies should
take place after the work of the various PIUs in compiling data and measuring the impact
of fellowships under PHRDP I has been completed and evaluated. TORs for the impact
studies would be prepared and sent to the Bank by April 30, 1996 for review and
comments. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a) such
studies would be completed not later than September 30, 1997, March 31, 1999, and
December 31, 1999; and (b) the findings and recommendations of the studies would be
furnished to the Bank for review and comments by one month after their completion
[para. 6.1(i)].
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.38        Several features in the proposed project should increase the prospects that
such a program will be sustained. First, the shift toward more use of domestic universities
(para. 3.6), where appropriate programs exist, and use of Link programs (paras. 3.10 and
3.11) are not only highly cost-effective methods of investing in graduate education, but
also will help improve existing graduate education for the next wave of students. Second,
another feature enhancing sustainability is the move toward a wider merit-based national
fellowship scheme (para. 3.20) serving the entire economy, not just the public sector.
Third, the definite progress that the various fellowship components have made and are
proposing to make under the proposed PHRDP II toward better utilization of returnees
(paras. 3.13 - 3.15) are all designed to expand and sustain the economic and social impact
of these very expensive but potentially very important investments in human capital.



20
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. CosTs
Summany of Costs
4.1            The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$95.0 million
equivalent (Rp 204.8 billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties.
Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and category of
expenditure, respectively. Detailed project costs are given in Annex 10.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
%   % Total
RD Billion        US$ Million     Foreign  Base
Component                             Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
Fellowships and Training
OTO                                    25.2  34.2   59.4  11.7   15.9   27.6  58    32
MOF                                    11.8  25.3   37.1   5.5   11.7   17.2  68    20
STAID                                  31.8   53.4   85.2  14.8  24.8   39.6  63    47
Subtotal                           68.8  112.9  181.7  32.0  52.4   84.4  62    99
NASTOT                                  1.2   0.2    1.4   0.5   0.1    0.6  17         1
Total Base Costs                     70.0  113.1  183.1  32.5   52.5   85.0  62   100
Physical Contingencies                  3.5    5.6    9.1   1.6   2.6    4.2  62       5
Price Contingencies                     7.7   4.9   12.6   3.5    2.3    5.8  40       7
Total Costs /a                       81.2  123.6  204.8  37.6  57.4   95.0  60   112
/a Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estinmted at US$0.2 million equivalent.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2            Baseline Costs.  Baseline costs are estimated at August 1994 prices.
Equipment and furniture costs are based on current prices for sirnilar imported or locally
available items. Costs for international and domestic consultants are in line with recent
education and training projects for appropriately qualified experts. Overseas fellowships
are estimated at US$60,000 per trainee for master's programs and US$90,000 per trainee
for doctoral programs. Overseas short-term training is estimated at US$8,000 per person
for a three-month course. Unit costs for in-country training range from US$2,000 to



21
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDrrURE
% % Total
Rp Billion        US$ Million     Foreign  Base
Component                             Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
Equipment, Furniture and Materials      0.1    0.3    0.4   0.1    0.1    0.2  50       0
Fellowships ana Training and Related Costs
Overseas Fellowships and Training     7.5   67.3   74.8   3.5   31.2   34.7  90       41
Domestic Fellowships and Training     13.6   2.4   16.0   6.3    1.1    7.4  15        9
Fellowships from the PHRDP I           3.1  27.8   30.9   1.4   12.9   14.3  90       17
Pre-departure Training                6.6   3.2    9.8   3.0    1.5    4.5  33         5
Fellowship Management Costs            1.8   4.3    6.1   0.9    2.0    2.9  69        3
LINK Program Development              4.3   0.7    5.0   2.0    0.3    2.3  13         3
Fellows' Salary                       15.3   2.7   18.0  7.1    1.3    8.4  15        10
Subtotal                           52.2  108.4  160.6  24.2  50.3   74.5  68        88
Consultants' Services
International Consultants             0.1    1.3    1.4  0.1    0.6    0.7  86         1
National Consultants                  0.8   0.1    0.9   0.3   0.1    0.4  25          0
Subtotal                            0.9    1.4   2.3   0.4    0.7    1.1  64         -
Research and Studies                    2.8   0.5    3.3   1.3   0.2    1.5  13         2
Project Management /a                  14.0   2.5   16.5   6.5    1.2    7.7  16        9
Total Base Costs                    74.6  117.7  192.3  34.6  54.6   89.2  61    100
Physical Contingencies                  3.5   5.6    9.1   1.6   2.6    4.2  62         5
Price Contingencies                     7.7    4.9   12.6   3.5   2.3    5.8  40        7
Total Costs /b                     81.2  123.6  204.8  37.6  57.4   95.0  60    112
/a Inclusive of expenditures for travel, consumable materials, honoraria, and operation and maintenance.
/b Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.2 million equivalent.
US$3,000 per trainee for short-term programs (3 months), US$12,000 per trainee for
master's programs, to US$14,000 per trainee for doctoral programs. Project management
includes expenditures for travel, honoraria, consumable materials, and operation and
maintenance, which are necessary for the implementation of the project.
4.3            Contingency  Allowances.    Physical contingencies  (US$4.2  million)
represent 5 percent and price contingencies (US$5.8 million) 7 percent of baseline costs.
Physical contingencies of 5 percent have been allocated for all the categories of
expenditure. Price contingencies have been calculated at 5.0 percent per year for local
costs and at 2.2 percent for foreign costs for all categories.
4.4            Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$57.4
million (representing 60 percent of total project costs) and are based on a detailed analysis
of expenditures under similar projects in Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for
the major expenditure categories are estimated as follows: (a) equipment, international
consultants, overseas fellowships and training - 90 percent; (b) fellowship monitoring costs



22
- 70 percent; (c) furniture - 30 percent; and (d) pre-departure training,8/ national
consultants, research and surveys, and in-country training - 15 percent.
4.5          Taxes and Duties.  Taxes and duties are estimated at Rp 0.4 billion
(US$0.2 million) based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all contracts for
equipment, other goods, and materials.
B. FINANCING
4.6          The total project cost of US$95.0 million equivalent would be financed by
a proposed Bank loan of US$69.0 million equivalent, covering about 73 percent of total
project costs excluding taxes (95 percent of foreign and 39 percent of local expenditures).
The Government from its annual budget would finance the remaining costs of US$26.0
million equivalent, covering about 27 percent of total project costs (Table 4.3).
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
GOI         IBRD         Total    IBRD Share
(%)
Equipment, Furniture, and Materials  0.2          0.0         0.2           0
Staff Training and Development
Overseas Fellowships & Training    0.0         51.6         51.6         100
Domestic Fellowships & Training    4.1          4.0          8.1          50
Predeparture Training and Expenses    0.9       3.9          4.8          80
Fellowship Management Costs        0.0          3.1          3.1         100
Fellows' Salary                    9.1          0.0          9.1           0
Link Program Development            1.3         1.3          2.6          50
Consultants' Services                0.3          0.9          1.2         80
Research and Studies                 0.3          1.3          1.6         80
Project Management                   8.5          0.0         8.5           0
Unallocated                          1.3          2.9         4.2          69
Total                              26.0         69.0         95.0          73
C. PROCUREMENT
4.7          The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement in the following
expenditure categories (Table 4.4):
(a)    Staff Training and Development (US$73.3 million equivalent).  The
expenditures for overseas graduate degree fellowships and overseas non-
8/  This is exclusive of some training conducted abroad for which estimated 90 percent of foreign
exchange was used.



23
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Total cost
Procurement Non-Bank   including
Category of expenditure             procedures /a Financed /b contingencies
Equipment, Furniture, & Materials                    0.2         0.2
(0.0)       (0.0)
Staff Training and Development          73.3         9.6        82.9
(66.6)       (0.0)      (66.6)
Consultants' Services                    1.2                     1.2
(1.0)                   (1.0)
Research and Studies                     1.8                     1.8
(1.4)                   (1.4)
Project Management                                   8.9         8.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                                   76.3        18.7        95.0
(m)    7(0)    (m)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
/a Includes selection of fellows using Government administrative procedures acceptable
to the Bank, and selection of consultants and EEOs following Bank guidelines.
/b Includes GOI financing of equipment, furniture, & materials, fellows' salaries, and
project management costs.
degree training programs comprise actual costs for tuition, health insurance,
and international travel, as well as authorized allowances in accordance with
the agreed unit costs. The expenditures for domestic graduate degree and
non-degree training programs would comprise actual costs for tuition and
authorized allowances in accordance with the agreed unit costs. The
selection of all the fellows and the award of training contracts would be
made in accordance with Government administrative procedures, acceptable
to the Bank, which are mostly the same as those under the ongoing
PHRDP I.  For overseas fellowships, EEOs (para. 3.27) would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants to provide services of placement, transfer of funds and
monitoring of fellows in foreign institutions.  In addition, fellowship
monitoring costs include expenditures for monitoring trips conducted by
PIU staff as part of the PIUs' efforts to reduce their reliance on EEOs and
develop iheir institutional capacity for fellowship management.
Predeparture training expenses would include expenditures for selection of
candidates and some allowances for fellows in accordance with Government
procedures, as well as foreign language and other training, which would be



24
contracted directly to training providers with the terms acceptable to the
Bank. Link program development would cover investment costs required
to develop Link programs, including seminars and workshops, teaching
support, materials, and other related costs; and
(b)   Consultants' Services (US$1.2  million equivalent).   National and
international consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants for implementation support and
institutional strengthening. Leasing of cars required by consultants would
be covered in the applicable consultant contract; and
(c)   Research and Studies (US$1.8 million equivalent). To cultivate quality,
contracts for research and studies would be awarded based on the criteria
of relevance of the topic and qualifications of the parties selected on a
competitive basis acceptable to the Bank.
4.8          Procurement Review. The following are the guidelines for procurement
review:
(a)   All consultant contracts valued at or over US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
All consultant contracts under US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals would be subject to random post review.  However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to assignments of a critical
nature such as the employment of consultants, and research and studies. In
applying these thresholds to an EEO contract, the total cost of the contract
less the cost of tuition fees is the value to be used;
(b)   A timetable to complete the review of documents scheduled for prior review
during project implementation would be prepared by the Govermnent, no
later than March 31, 1995, and furnished to the Bank for approval; and
(c)   Post reviews of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be conducted on
the following basis: (i) 20 percent of contracts valued between $25,000 and
below $100,000; (ii) 10 percent of contracts valued between $5,000 and
below $25,000; and (iii) contracts valued below $5,000 would be reviewed
on a discretionary basis.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.9          The proposed loan of US$69.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over
a period of about 5 years (Annex I 1). Disbursements are expected to be completed by
September 30, 2000, the Loan Closing Date. The disbursement schedule is based on the
implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education and training projects
in Indonesia. It is somewhat faster than the standard profile for education projects in
Indonesia because of the advanced capabilities of the PIUs dealing with the fellowships



25
based on their past experience. Disbursements estimated for FY95 are based on the
proposed initial deposit into the project Special Account and replenishment. Disbursements
would be made as follows:
Fellowship and Training Programs:
Overseas Fellowships and Training        100% of total expenditures
Domestic Fellowships and Training         50% of total expenditures
Predeparture Training Expenses            80% of total expenditures
Fellowship Management Costs              100% of total expenditures
Link Program Development                  50% of total expenditures
Consultants' Services                       80% of total expenditures
Research and Studies                        80% of total expenditures
4.10        Disbursements from the loan for all contracts above US$100,000 in value
for firms and US$50,000 in value for individual consultants, research and studies, EEOs,
pre-departure training, Link program development and fellowships, would be made against
full documentation. All other disbursements would be made against SOEs for which
relevant documents would be retained by responsible agencies and made available for
review as requested by visiting Bank missions. To facilitate disbursements, a Special
Account would be established at Bank Indonesia, or at a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank, to be used by the specified Government project authorities under the direction
of the Director General of the Budget, MOF, following established procedures. The
Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures for all
categories. Upon Loan Effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment of the Special
Account, the Bank, on receipt of an application from the Director General would make an
initial deposit of up to US$5.0 million, which is based on the need for funds to cover these
expenditures on average for a period of four months. Application for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or when 20 percent
of the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.
E. ACCOUNTS, AUDITS, AND REPORTS
4.11        Designated Government authorities would establish project accounts for all
project expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Accounts and documentation supporting the SOEs and Special Account would be
maintained separately. The NASTOT would consolidate and prepare the financial report.
The financial statements and financial report for each fiscal year would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank [para. 6.1 (j)]. The audit report would contain
a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs, submitted during the year
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. Certified copies of the financial reports
on the project for each fiscal year, together with the auditors' statement, would be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each government fiscal year. Within six months after the completion of disbursements,
the NASTOT would submit a project completion report to the Bank.



26
4.12        Technical Audit. The MOF, OTO and STAID PIUs have the primary
responsibility to monitor all project activities and there are well developed procedures for
monitoring of fellowship selection, performance, and reentry for graduate degree and non-
degree programs. In addition, the routine monitoring would be added to, through the
impact studies and annual reviews. However, given the large number of beneficiary
organizations served by each PIU, an independent, qualified firm would be hired to carry
out technical audits of all aspects of graduate degree and non-degree programs, using a two
person team. The technical audits would focus on the identification of training needs,
nomination and selection of fellowship candidates, pre-departure training, monitoring of
fellows on programs, reentry procedures, and the award of contracts. They would have
the objectives of monitoring that all procedures are followed in a transparent manner and
that all funds are spent in accordance with agreed procedures. The audits would cover
activities in progress and post review of completed actions. These audits would be
conducted annually on a random sample basis. Assurances were given at negotiations that
the technical audits would start on April 1, 1996 and would continue to be implemented
each year thereafter, in accordance with TORs and in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
and that copies of the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank for review and
comments not later than July 1 in each year [para 6. 1(k)].
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1         Benefits. The main benefits are: (a) improved quality of professional staff
in key government ministries and agencies at national and local levels through a variety
of fellowship and training prograins (782 overseas fellows, including 425 currently
studying abroad under the ongoing PHRDP I, 160 overseas non-degree trainees, 244
domestic fellows, and 1,210 domestic non-degree trainees); (b) a substantial stock of
individuals (90 fellows), chosen on merit basis through the pilot programs with overseas
graduate education in subjects not yet taught in Indonesia, available to the Indonesian
economy; (c) an increased access to fellowship management services provided to the
private sector by the project; (d) enhanced utilization of returned fellows; and
(e) strengthened coordination among research institutes, education institutes, and industries.
5.2         Risks. The main project risks are related to: (a) the low utilization of the
returnees of fellowship programs due to the inefficient management of the civil service;
and (b) the capacity of NASTOT to coordinate and monitor the fellowship and training
activities and control the disbursement level in order to stay within budget limits. The
measures to alleviate these potential risks are included in the project design.



27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   criteria and procedures, acceptable to the Bank, by which applicants would
be directed to a domestic or overseas graduate degree program would be
provided to the Bank by April 30, 1995 (para. 3.6);
(b)   procedures for the selection of candidates and placement of returnees,
acceptable to the Bank, under the fresh domestic SI graduate program
would be established by April 30, 1995 (para. 3.12);
(c)   (i) a study on the establishment of a competitive national fellowship scheme
would be completed by September 30, 1997; and (ii) the major findings and
recommendations of the study would be discussed with the Bank and the
Bank's conmments and suggestions would be incorporated in the final report,
as appropriate (para. 3.20);
(d)   consultants would be selected by April 30, 1995 under TORs acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.21);
(e)   the Secretariat for NASTOT would be strengthened by adding at least one
professional staff by April 30, 1995 (para. 3.22);
(f)   administrative arrangements for overseas fellowship management, acceptable
to the Bank, would be completed by April 30, 1995 (para. 3.27);
(g)   beginning March 31, 1996, a project implementation plan would be sent to
the Bank, for comments, annually by March 31 of each year (para. 3.34);
(h)   a mid-term evaluation would be conducted by September 30, 1997 in
accordance with TORs acceptable to the Bank, and the report on the
findings and recommendations would be furnished to the Bank by December
31, 1997 (para. 3.35);
(i)   impact studies would be completed not later than September 30, 1997,
March 31, 1999, and December 31, 1999;
(j)   satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special Account, and
the necessary organizational structure for its operation, including
appropriate accounting and auditing procedures would be made (para. 4.11);
and



28
(k)   technical audits would start to be carried out on April 1, 1996 and would
continue to be implemented each year thereafter, in accordance with TORs
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and the copies of the audit reports
would be furnished to the Bank for review and comments not later than July
1 in each year (para. 4.12).
Recommendation
6.2         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$69.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for
a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



29
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Composition of the Civil Service, 1985, 1990, & 1992
1985                   1990                  1992
Number       %         Number       %         Number        %
By Sex
Male                            2,108,065    71.3      2,544,424    67.5       2,642,255    66.9
Female                            848,017    28.7       1,226,862    32.5      1,307,871    33.1
By Education
Primary School                    598,113    20.2        546,277     14.5        547,074    13.8
Junior Secondary School           384,268    13.0        393,661     10.4       402,902     10.2
Senior Secondary School         1,601,718    54.2      2,201,593     58.4      2,319,700    58.7
College (DI-DiII & Bachelor's)    248,503     8.4        368,783      9.8        390,993     9.9
University (Master's)             123,390     4.2        258,794      6.9       289,167      7.3
University(Doctorate)/l               90      0.0            187      0.0           290      0.0
By Age
Under 21 years                      5,427     0.2          7,798      0.2          7,709     0.2
21-25 years                       353,635    12.0        266,514     7.1         176,975     4.5
26-30 years                       575,610    19.5        813,853     21.6        719,763    18.2
31-35 years                       561,401    19.0        774,439    20.5         859,744    21.8
3640 years                        450,385    15.2        632,197     16.8       709,715     18.0
41-45 years                       404,841    13.7        470,541     12.5        514,204    13.0
46-50 years                       318,079    10.8        404,526     10.7        423,187    10.7
Over 50 years                     286,704     9.7        401,417     10.6        538,829    13.6
By Location
Central Civil Service           2,571,113    87.0       3,291,100    87.3      3,453,901    87.4
Regional Civil Service            384,969    13.0        480,165     12.7       496,225     12.6
By Position
Structural                        247,865     8.4        205,008      5.4       203,473      5.2
Functional                      1,218,808    41.2       1,839,226    48.8      1,940,823    49.1
Others                          1,489,409    50.4       1,727,051   45.8       1,805,830    45.7
By Grade (Golongan)
Grade 1                           703,827    23.8        609,733     16.2        611,228    15.5
Grade II                        1,925,364    65.1       2,538,043    67.3      2,663,718    67.4
Grade m                           309,337    10.5        590,009     15.6        639,809    16.2
Grade IV                           17,574     0.6         33,500     0.9          35,371     0.9
TOTALS                               2,956,082    100.0     3,771,285    100.0     3,950,126    100.0
Source: BAKN
/I These figures are likely to be understated.



3(
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAI, HIJMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Composition oof the Ci il Service, 1985-1992
4. 000.000                                                                                           ___
3,500.000
g 3,000,000  - __
2,500,000                                                                                                              El U.v.mty (Maatei & PK.D)
2  Cofeep  (DI-DIII &   Bach e r)
o                                                                                                                         U Somor S.conday School
:  2,000,000                                                                                                               El _b _orSecooduy Schoo
1  Pn..y School
1.500,000-
1,000,000-
500,000
0   1985         1986        18            9          19            9          1991  -     1992
Year
Sourrc:ESK



INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESROUCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
GOI's Overseas Fellowships and Training during Repeita V (1989/90-1993/94): Nmnber of Departures per Year
Average per year
Type of Program                           1989/90             1990/91             1991/92             1992/93             1993/94          during Repelita V
Loan    Grant      Loan    Grant       Loan    Grant       Loan    Grant       Loan    Grant         Loan     Grant
Graduate Degree Prorams
Doctorate (S3)                            198        2        245       28        456       24        253       38        192       42         269        27
Master's (S2)                             769       18        846       65      1,368      109        805      144        580      125         874        92
Sub-total                                 967       20      1.091       93      1.824      133      1.058      182        772      167        1.142      119
Bachelor Degree & Non-degree Programs
Bachelor(SI)                              196       56        259        0        836        0         99        0        201        1         318        11
Non-degree                                857    1,192       1,219     423        828    1,078      1,160    1,076       1,349    1,003       1,083      954
Sub-total                                1.053    1.248      1.478     423      1.664    1.078      1.259    1.076      1,550    1.004        1.401      966
Total                                    2,020    1,268     2,569      516      3,488    1,211      2,317    1,258      2,322    1,171        2,543     1,085
Source: Cabinet Secretariat (SEKKAB) and NASTOT, 1994.



32
Annex 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank-fimanced Education and Trahinng Projects
Loan/     Year of    Year of   Project                                         Agency                            Amount
Credit     Board       Actual                                                                              (less cancellations) /a
Number   Approval    Closing                                                                                    IBRD          IDA
-(USS mnillion) -
Projects with MOEC
219       1970        1976   First Education                                 MOEC /b                                        4.5
387       1973        1981   Third Education                                 MOEC                                          13.5
1237       1976        1981   Fourth Education                                MOEC                             24.1
1433       1977        1984   First Teacher Training                          MOEC                             17.8
1486       1977        1984   Nonfonnal Education                             MOEC                              8.3
869       1978        1985   Polytechnic                                     MOEC                                         49.0
1904       1980        1987   First University Development                    MOEC                             43.1
2101       1982        1990   Second Teacher Training                         MOEC                             79.1
2102       1982        1988   Second Textbook                                 MOEC                             24.9
2290       1983        1990   Second Polytechnic                              MOEC                            106.0
2355       1983        1990   Second Nonfornal Education                      MOEC                             43.0
2472       1984        1990   Secondary Education and Mgmt Training           MOEC                             76.6
2547       1985        1993   Second University Development                   MOEC                            146.3
2944        1988       1993   Higher Education Development                    MOEC                            133.3
3158       1990         --    Second Secondary Education and Mgmt             MOEC                            154.2
3311       1991          --    Second Higher Education Development            MOEC                            150.0
3431       1991         -      Third Nonfornal Education                      MOEC                             69.5
3448       1992         -      Primary Education Quality Improvement          MOEC                             37.0
3496       1992         -      Primary School Teacher Development             MOEC                             36.6
3754       1994         -      University Research for Graduate Education     MOEC                             59.8          =
Subtotal of Projects wit MOEC                                                1,209.7        6Z0
Pro*ects with Other Ministries
288       1972        1978   Second Education (Agriculture Training)         MOA/c                                         6.3
1692       1979        1985   Second Agricultural Training                    MOA                              34.7
2258        1983       1988   Public Works Manpower Development               MOPW /d                          29.8
2341       1983        1992   Third Agricultural Training                     MOA                              62.9
2599       1985        1993   Science and Technology Training                 MORT /a                          93.0
2705        1986        --    ManpowerDevelopmentandTraining                  MOM/f                            58.1
2940       1988         -      Accountancy Development                        MOF /g, MOEC                    113.0
2992       1988          --   Tree Crop Human Resource Development            MOA                              18.4
3112       1989         -      Public Works Institution Dev. & Training       MOPW                             36.1
3134       1989          --    Professional Human Resource Development        BAPPENAS, MOF, BPPT/h           117.5
3721       1994         -      Skills Development                             MOM                              27.7          =
Subtotal of Projects th Other Ministries                                      591.2          6.3
GRAND TOTAL                                                                  1,800.9        73.3
/a 'The amount less cancellation" applies only to the projects which were closed (with "Year of Actual Closing").
The amount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
/b MOEC   - Ministry of Education and Culture
/c MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture
/d MOPW   - Ministry of Public Works
/c MORT   -Ministry of Research and Technology
/f MOM     - Ministry of Manpower
/g MOF     - Ministry of Finance
/h BPPT    - Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology



33
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Placement Targets of Fellowships and Training under PHRDP I and II by PIU and Type of Program
PHRDP I               PHRDP II
PIU and Type of Programn                                                      SAR             Appraisal /a
October 89             August 94
Overseas Training OMce (OTO)
Overseas Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                            37                     15
Master's (S2)                          620                    122
Non-Degree                             450                     50
Sub-total                            1,107                    187
Domestic Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                             0                      0
Master's (S2)                            0                     49
Non-Degree                               0                   1,085
Sub,total                                0                  1,134
Overseas/Domestic                 Master's (S2)                             0                     10
LINKPrograms                      Sub-otal                                  0                     10
Total for OTO                                                           1,107                  1,331
Mlrnstry of Finance (MOF)
Overseas Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                            60                     15
Master's (S2)                          120                    135
Non-Degree                             120                     60
Sub,total                              300                    210
Domestic Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                             0                     15
Master's (S2)                            0                     50
Non-Degree                               0                     75
Sub,tatal                                0                    140
Total for MOF                                                             300                    350
Science and Technology for Industrial Development (STAID)
Overseas Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                            72                     55
Master's (S2)                          305                    105
Bachelor (SI)                          171                       0
Non-Degree                             232                      50
Subtotal                               780                    210
Domestic Programs                 Doctoral (S3)                            20                     40
Master's (S2)                          181                     90
Bachelor (SI)                           92                      0
Non-Degree                              73                     50
Subtotal                               366                    180
Overseas/Domestic                 Doctoral (S3)                             0                     10
LINK Programs                     Master's (S2)                             0                     51
Sub-total                                0                     61
Total for STAID                                                         1,146                    451
GRAND TOTAL                                                                  2,553                  2,132
/a Each project implementation unit would have 30 owrae nmastees felowships earmarked for fresh S I graduates. In addition,
the project would finance fellowships which started under PHRDP I with the total of 102 doctoral, 13S mastees, and
185 bachelor degree fellows for the three project implementation unita.



34
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Placement Targets of Fellowships and Training under PHRDP I and II by Type of Program
PHRDP I                      PHRDP II
Type of Program                                                  SAR                    Appraisal /a
October '89                    August 94
Overseas Fellowships
Doctoral (S3)                                                     169                             85
Master's (S2)                                                   1,045                            362
Bachelor (S1)                                                     171                              0
Non-degree                                                        802                            160
Sub-total                                                       2,187                           607
Domestic Proerams
Doctoral (S3)                                                      20                             55
Master's (S2)                                                     181                            189
Bachelor (SI)                                                      92                              0
Non-degree                                                         73                          1,210
Sub-total                                                        366                          1,454
Domestic/Overseas LINK Programs
Doctoral (S3)                                                       0                             10
Master's (S2)                                                       0                             61
Sub-total                                                           0                            71
GRAND TOTAL                                                     2,553                          2,132
la Each project implementation unit would have 30 overseas master's fellowships earmarked for fresh Sl graduates.
In addition, the project would fuiance fellowships which started under PHRDP I with the total of 102 doctoral, 138 mast
and 185 bachelor degree fellows for the three project implementation units.



2iDON~
SZCOND PRO VSSIONAL HUMAN RISOURCE DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
P__nnd Dielnade of Jelwdba mmd Tralnin  sown Beneficary MlndIre and Aghvdue in
Fd1          huylmneail Uskit &                               0ner   PhFwbuDipe                           Dm          Train= z                LINK Praus lb                   Told
B _esiy 16andry/Apocy                                   Doctncl       ?JS'a    Noodqee             Dockgal       Mtees   NaonFoe               Dokel 
0Th 1duflh mF   d Trlafh k
Mmdnsim  Aaude & Sebpoedthnvedrim                         15            92           s0                            49          425                                          631
BAPPEDA                                                                                                                        660                                          660
Freh Si C1_duh                                                          30                                                                                                   30
smb4kw                                     11~~~~I      LU            H                A            12         .11LiLI
MOF FeUeddl md Traun  Ad
bhcty of _                                                 7            30           30               4            16           31                                          113
K udyafFwepAffu                                            1            15                             1                                                                     17
1mby otflu_y                                               3           25            10               4            16           20                                           73
1dely OTra&                                                3            20           10               4             9           17                                           63
BKPl                                                       1            15           10               2             9            7                                           U
Fsth SI ra&Mn                                                           30                                                                                                   30
LI          111                            LI           H            71                1            1            L7
BAKOSURTAIAL                                                             1                             1                                                                      2
BATAN                                                      9             8            9               14           35            2                                           77
BPPT                                                      19            21           10               15           13            9                                           37
BPS                                                        3            16                                         12                                                        31
LAPAN                                                      8            10                            2             6                                                        26
LIPI                                                      11            11           24                             6           34                                           36
BPIS                                                                     1            2                                                                                       3
R&D Cdo  im Mh ety of nbAh   y & Apruim                    5             7            5               S            IS            5                                           43
Fh Sl1 O1wk_b_                                                          30                                                                                                   30
A*4"d                                      a~~~~~I      LaI           a               H                                           L             I             2
Gra_d Ten                                                    I5           3a           1"               55           139        1,218               18           61
/a  TbI pnned I d ibe   is eubjead to revam bind an tee &diu compebitvw adediat poem.
lb  The sloetha of LINK progam mw  afas wmAd depmd cn t hie of  Dd  o be qipporele&
Ic  The mIi   idb of sbdy go dvWpmU Om-6 poicy   yh_  nd dewlopuut nulqmnat
/d  The nqr fid of iudy we henceand mnezy poicy, esoonoc plutmgy fb-Al _moernatt,  iditsad tra bde.
/a  The myJ fibdd of utdy we cmae and angmeuin
Ii



36
ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TEcHNIcAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Implementing      Requirements
Expertise Required                    Agency         (Person/month)
A. Implementation Support
Local Experts
1. Academic Placement (1)              OTO                 36
2. Mgt. information and implementation  STAID              90
Subtotal                                             126
B. Institutional Development
International Experts
1.Project management (1)               OTO                 12
2.Program development/monitoring       STAID               36
Subtotal                                              48
TOTAL                                                174



INDONESIA: SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - OTO Fellowships and Training
199519                              1997              1990               1999              2000
ID Name                                    Qf I | Qf2 | Qt3 |  4Qt I |  2Qe 3     Qf 2 |  3Qtr4 |Ql I |  2 Qt3 |  4 Qtr I |  2 Qt3 Qtr4 QtI   2   3   4
2  Over Fdbshp Propm&                                    -       - 
2      Batdfl I                                                               
3          Selaws of carodadali
4          Pdeutme Iffup tiu A p  t
5  15 &cWW dWu fdimn  I                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
6          47  tws deg  fiows
7          25 nmsdepwIm   
la         Applimb     &pp-A m
11        73 5    depsMws                                                                - -
12         25 min-Jqmpe~
II        Tum..I _I s
1 tmti 1T                                                                                 T0                                                             1
14      _i                                   0      -   -& I
-14
is         Sab.wofmaddu
16Aempas 
17         2 nomwdwspn
19     Bs" 2                                                                                    | -  
26         200amdpp~u          )                                                    _               
21  App                                                                -   - p--AFI
27         215 3m    pubm-  ow1i-f .                 L     LibI                                 j      -               F                            -



INDONESIA: SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MOF Fellowships and Trainimg
1995                        1996 2"997                                   1            199S                        19"9                         2000
ID    Name                                                         QTI   Qt2         3  Q4   QC           2  QC 3  Qt 4   Qt I  Qt 2  Qt 3    T 4            IQ      2 Qt2   3  Q  4  Qtr I  Q  2  Qt 3  QT 4   Qtl   Qt 2   QT3  QT4
I    Ov Fa      oshup PrograrTms
2          B ti 3 hih   1I_                                                                 _j_              i        _       _      _       _     _      _       _    __|
3                S    dc-ieb   &   p vrdeparI-    ln p                                  ;;'g
4                Apphcahxlio pwc-s  & prep.Iso;
5                Econuf n           fim     mas e r i  . fr'ln               _ '                     :
6                15  imrr& p                                                                   ' pibpan ts:
7                40 ID8me.dqpCtk12oWSI                                              . 
7 dota dV    k0casi 
9          Batdc2 2                                                                                                   -                    -       -
20               Sdecu-m  & pe-dqmrnx  bqp     fwrulm
I                                                             I Appb mi pI I   q                                                                                                                           !
12               E       c luwig fi   *' m_ Ii
13                 S i  i          Ft_                                                                                         _                     _                    _          i rpersi_
14               40 mm&Ws degree Wkpc
16           ihi1d 3               lo                                                                       I                   =                                                             -       -          1i  -r
17               sd c *m & pme-deperblre 14q  0
IIAppbt2aFoc  .e  &  xq-rmi
21               EOmU   llb s     I 9  1                                               I
20               IS nn-cree puti                                                                                                         F                                    I            [I
2 4   .   _ _                          t                    '             t       i      [             !      |       !      |      [      t      I             t         4   ,       t             j~~~I  ~ 
226              40 fiWees degre Mows                                                  t                                                                                     .               i _i
L2 B,, 4                                                                                                                                          I0 I                                                       
23               Sdekchm & yrrt,p~U   hik    s  miw 
24               Ap,plcbtsm x-s&Ppareph catzm
26       2non-dtwep.la     aps2s                               I                                                                                        I '
27               IS5 madepw Mw s "am
2     _ _    _ _ _   _  _ _   _  __c_       _   _ _  _   _ _                  -  -I p_                                                                                      __eW1L                            L    __             _



INDONESIA: SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MOF Fellowships and Training
ID  Name                                         I 2 Qt 3 Qtr 4 [  Qtr I |Qt 2 |Qt 3 |Qt 4  tr I Qtr 2 |Qr 3  t, 4 |Qr I3 Qtr 4 |Qt I |QtI   Qr 2 |Qtr 3 |t 4
29  Darmsbc TrauuPg Prvgr                         *                                   .    !-                   -                       *         *   I-
31          Seicm ofdcuredron-degreie dtuI 
32          Appbcado p--ms & xpmpon                                                                                     I
33          7  d qmm                                             I d                                I 
34          15 wAs es d_em Mme                                                          _
35          IS nin -diu I
36     B9h 2                                                                                         ,w
37          Sdedin otdpdqiunon-dagm  Imbdi
36          AppWbc- p     &1- -mX5
39          8 doal dore                                                                 __l ws
W X 3~~~i                    >                           -=-                                      -_ 3Ii - 
F S D             I    '                                     m           I    I                                                       t 11~~~~! 
40          3I5 Idas                                                                   <Kum                                               o                           I$
41          IS                                                                                             _ a-dqe p   I                I
43          Sdscbw odvm%-dapee maddat
4   _ _ _ _Is  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  II
,17  Batch 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10    Sdeftm of g candidates~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1;



INDONESIA: SECOND PROFESSIONAL NIDIA RESOURCE DEV-ELOPH4ENT PROJECT - STAID FetLowships and Training
1993                          1996                           1997              1199                                        1999                           2000
ID    Name                                            I      2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t3  4~t]~~  I  Qq2   Qr3    4   (   I   Qt2 1  U3 1 Zr4 1 ZrI I(2 1                 3 1(  4 1(   I I    2 1 Zt3 12  4   (tII Qtr 2           3       4t
I    Ovnea Felowship Program
2           Batch IP 
3                 Selectio of cniae
4                 Predepartuwre lngag trainin &peparaio
3Ilnoncm-degree partcpants_
6                 30-sntmes degre felowc*
7                 30 &dcm-al degree feDS                                                  u
a           Batch 2                                                                    -                                                                                                                        
9                 Sd-as A pradepmne lanuage fu
tO                Appbca-a pua &  aq-amesa
Ij                Il10non-degeep-~     n
1 4         Batch 3
135                Seletio & predepamoe lagae ua                                                              _______
16                Appheatmo pesms  & puquabrcI                                                                              ______________
1 7                tO no-degeepariiat                                                                                                                          
lB33 maids. dwe  felow
19          Batch 4and 5
20                 Selection, applictio, & peaao
21                t10so-degreepartcipants
22                 Selecion applicaio  & prearaio
23                 tOrson-degreeparticipants,
24    Domesti Troosg Progras 
25          Batch 1                                                          _______________________________________________
26                 Selection ofcniae
27                 Apphcatio  proese & preparaio 
22                 13 doctoal degre fellows
29                 25 mastcer' degre felows



INDONESIA:  SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAID FetLowships and Training
19"  -  I      ~19%17                                           9         1993                    1~         2OM       t 
ID   Nam                                                                          QU 2 |  3 |  4  Qtr I   I Qtr32|tr  l,4 | Qtr IQtr2 2Qtr3   t 4  Qtr I Qt2        3   t 4  Qtr I Qtr2  Qtr3
30            10 nos4cx&pen   C                                                       I 
31    B_   kh    2                                                                 -                                 ;
32            S5cbonnofd/ noAmi-dec   te                        W                                                                   I
33            Appb-                                                           _     .&  7                                     I                                              ,
34            20 &clw deee (iOWS                                                 I                                               -l       I.
35            25 mas deg      i Mom                            I 
36            10 ncek-&gm  tmd
3S            Sdebn ofd dr-on -dege e                                                                         2Wi
39            Appbcafi- F-  AL I I                                                                                 I                 i
40            30 maf  lee L. d*    .   ,rim
41            lOr"lmpnb                                                                                       l                                       l 
42       Pskh4 ad3                                                                    I                                          - -
43            15 n'-&'' pubajNl (inddu       )
44            13        r       1       ( ne1                                    r                                              
45  RemnofR                                                            * D                                 -v        *                                                   '    .
47            Prorwmnt ofqa pment
48            Dtdopmal ofroay d.ym syn' 
49            Dldo1-cof-nyp pengin
50            On.ftbmw pwge Th avuuo of retzoa
SI            Densgnofreeunrystudb
52            Roeomy oI    _x'ua'
35R-auy inniuohg-i                                                n n         m
54       PrapuMwtm       b                                I    ,           I    i                   --h             - -j-I                     - ,I
55            Mainbmm                                           - ofreeniy dateby ute  
56     _    _f_       _          _         _              I,                  _     __                                 _ _ 
57            Rm ey            (l :oshp & mmw (  1)l                                                                                                       l
58   C_bxfcrvof_  .  |  !  ;  t  t  |  $,  | | } | I z I ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-f



IJUEIA: T        POFIUIaII    I  USAR  DEWLaIT NOE CT - STAID F@t ll_ips -r Trainin
ff 1                          59                                 111 2H9-
D                                        Q                     I 2    3   42 I q 3 I Ql14  I WI Q  1 1 | r4 I Q  I Qk2f Qg3 |4| | I    Q 3 I k4 QI Q2   3   4
*                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM
Q.   I (' ft. A I NNW    ' '  _.
74         wabwC  msm
75
77        Lm  -mzpwga
so      Pe II
72        Acd      I mw  desi    Lin1
13pmm -                                    -amo
74                                                    . pn, zopi,                                          .,                                       I
15~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
f4   qX  ,_, i__ - d_      .   ,   '         ,        >        ,   '\            ,   -                 0                          |~~~~



43
Annex 7
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPM[ENT PROJECT
PLANNED SUPERVISION SCIIEDULE
Length
Timing          (in Weeks)      Nature of Mission    Team Composition
1.    March 1995         1            Start-up             Economist
1                                Training Specialist
2.    September 1995     1            Full Supervision     Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
3.    March 1996         1            Annual Review        Economist
I                                 Training Specialist
I                                 S&T Specialist
4.    September 1996     1            Full Supervision     Economist
1                                Training Specialist
5.    March 1997         1            Annual Review        Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
6.    September 1997     1            Full Supervision     Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
7.    March 1997         1            Annual Review        Economist
i                                 Training Specialist
8.    September 1997     2            Mid-term Review      Economist
2                                 Training Specialist
1                                 S&T Specialist
9.    March 1998         1            Full Supervision     Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
10.   September 1998     1            Annual Review        Training Specialist
1                                 S&T Specialist
11.   March 1999         1            Full Supervision     Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
12.   September 1999     1            Annual Review        Economist
1                                 Training Specialist
13.   March 2000         1            Final Supervision    Economist
1            ICR Preparation      Training Specialist
1                                 S&T Specialist



44
Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quallty Indicators
Indicator                                              Unit of Measurement                   Improvement/Outcome
Fellomhlws and Training
OTO. MOFand STAID
I LeuIgth of studies                                     Time                                  95% on time (u planned)
2 Academic perfomance                                    Grade point average                   Over 3.0 on a 4.0 point system or equivalent
3 Reduced role of EBOs in placent  &monitoring           % cost offellowship                   Incresed cost-effectivenees
4 Reduced role of EEOs in placement h monitoring         Dependence on hPO                     Increued institutional cpcity
,Vtilzatz'on of Rerneru
Ree.ry Proccese
5 Asaignment of returnees to poSt related to training    Time lag between return & start       Job posting before their return
ofproductive work
6 Productive use of new knowledge                        Quality of work plan presented        Highest possible use of new skills
to management/peers at quarterly
workshops during thefirst year
R&D in LPDNs: STAID
7 Amount received in competitive rearch grants           AmountinRp.                           Amount increase
8 Indonesian patents                                     Number per,yar                        Increae in number
9 Intenational patents                                   Numberperyear                         Increse in number
10 ModeUPrototye/Software development                     Numberper ear                         Increae in number
II Research papen in international jounals                Numberper,year                        Inaree in number
12 Research papers in Indonesian joumals                  Numberperywar                         Incrase in number
Jrnowldc 7tansfer
oTo andMOP
13 Transfer of knowledge to peem                          Number of seminars                    All retuneea hold one or mora
semirna for their peers
14 Review  rticles tag;eted to usr of new knowledge       Number                                Increae in number
15 OfrLcial teching in universities A sectoral colleges   Number ofcourses updated              Faster introduction of new courme
contents
16 Official presentations to privte sector staff          Number                                Increase in number
17 Official presentations to public sector stff           Number                                Increase in number



45
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quality Indicaton
IndiCatOr                                          Unit of Measurned                  ImproVemntoutcome
IS Projec with pivat  iuy                             Number and vaue                    Ireaue in nmmba
19 Project with pubhlic indusies                      Number and value                   Inase in nunbr
20 Projecs with mveraaties                            Number and value                   Irease in nber
21 Ptojet with odhe pbhc                              Numberandvalue                     Increae in nUnber
22 Review  tidles taipted to inuy                     Number                             Increae in number
23 Trani  of inu    staff                             Person dAs of training             Incaee in mbe
24 Tranng of pblc  dtw daff                           Person dy of training              Inre  in naumber
25 Offcil teaching in uiversities                     Nmber ofofurs updated             Fasteritroduction of W4o.d
subject nates in iiesity edcion
27 Presentatios of rewdc in coty                      Number                             Increae in mnber
2S Presentstios of resarh ovas                        Number                             Increa in numbe
29 Acadmnic work in profsional societies              Amount                             Incrse in  ount
/s Subject to the Bank management decision about the inclusion of the R&D Maagemnent subcoenponent



-      -    -   -     -   -
-   -   -   -     - _ -_   _   I --  4-   -      -3yq                                                                                        D4 q A
-   -   -   -    -   -   - _ - _ - - -              -   -   -       -        -    -    I    -    -    -   --
s    -   -   -   I        -   -   -              I -   -   -       T -   -   -        I -    -   -      -    -    -   -  w|-v *                       *       Ty
t    _    _   _   _     _   _   _    _    _   _    _   _    _   _ -_          ---- --            - -  -  -               _M -                  -P         d PAS    'CT
I    _   _   _   _    _   z   _   _    _ -   -   -   -        -     I   -    -         --                     -         P4q wpl U -1I
%T  -    -    -    -    9   -    -    -    VAT -    -    -    %   -    -    -    9C1  -   -   -    %GI -   -   -        _                           -      YPdI VT
Is   -   -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   n   -   -    -   L   -   -    -    -    -   -        uUUd _                            T _  f
W1   -   -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   O1  -   -    -    -    -    -      -mm                       swmlmmn as 
@    _   _ -   -       -   -   S1  -    -   -   S1  -    -   -   S1  -    -   -   SI  -    -   -   S1  -                -                        D     _o   L
OT                OT _   _T _    _1                                      of _   _    _   _   _   _    _   @s  -   -    -    -   -    -    - -  -su d
S -   -   -                    -    -   -                      1 -   -   -       OK -   -   - El  -   -1  -
tK -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - Kf -        -      t                  -mu                                      WwIm   -w o-o - --- 
99   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - t                                 Mu      -        -        41 -- _'GIE-0 'T
-  ~    ~      ~     ~      cw,.uqin.mP- m& nmaobwj
~-wn__~
t    _   _   _ _    _   I      _    _   - _   -    -T        I   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -       A4wB               pw_-W _*A o Lm-q  '
K - -   -   - - I        -   -   - K       z -   -   - I     K -   -   -   -   -   -   - I        K-   - -   -P                    _'EVowd    I
1t   -     -    -   -   _   _   91   _    _   _   CT   -    -   -    I   -        -      I      -     -  -                                     II  -  -
tS    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -_ -   ' _  -   - -  -   -               I  -   -            -dwdMPrnp~ao
K                                                                                                             - -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    * --  min -  -  --a d
SS   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   ;I  -      -                                             - I T  - I  CT  - omd             sm  u-        m_-o m
-   -   -   -    -                            - -    -               I -    -    -                                                       (I  - -Wd MP- .u-0 'IOo
Cal   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - Cl                                                                 nouwww                                    Z -    -   -  R    -    -   -  -  -   -     -
I    - -   -   -       -   -   -         -   -   -   I   -   -   -   I    -   -   -             -   --uw                                        v       rqV-SL 'I
_I                                  I                  T             I -   -             _                    -          Wm  -       --        -    Iao.,VASS_ '11
~~~~~~~~VK    91                                          -             -   - I                            *-- -        - - -dP    SU, WUIDNKpUd-g I
941   -    -    -    -    9?1 -    -    -    VAT -    -    -   %01 -    -    -    VT -   -   -    %91 -   -   -         _N9                   _I_pmp*  -el
%R   -    -    -    -    WE -    -    -    %R  -    -    -    %R  -    -    -    %R  -    -    -    %R  -   -   -       _mid                       _p            1
-   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -      -   -    -   -   -    -           -mnd             _.9tL )_ %nuL
off   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   OKl  -    -   -   W>  -          M  -    -   -   OK  -           saa                (Jaw '""a _w-       a  L
Rt   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   c -   -   -    C -   -   -      OCI   -   -C -          -t- sI Y I SSAd%p 3NO 
ec -   -   - --                                                                            -    -   -                                               - -  i- -  d-R -dt
ec   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  -  - _d -   -    -   -   -   -                                                _ L_ a                      _P 0  'C
I    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                  - T  --crq no 'I
OLa
IPNi  lb  lb  lb  lb  lb  tb  lb  lb  lb  lb  tb  lb  lb  tb  zb  lb  lb  lb  lb  ib  lb  lb  tb  lb                  _'Np
09K              66K1              06K1               1L9               991                f4T             P  n
'S2JUL 4APUIb
J.3ZrO(Id 1MU=4IO'IIA([ z3KflOR  NVPfEM 7vmoIBSaOHj  JODZS
vmzxoGba



47
Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Objectives
1.           The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities are: (a) to monitor the
implementation of the proposed PHRDP II interventions so as to assure the project's quality, timeliness
and effectiveness; and (b) to measure the impact of the project's major programs (graduate degree
programs, TMPP, and pilot fresh SI graduate degree program) to assess their efficacy and to use the
information gained to redesign the programs for sustainable operation. In the case of the pilot fresh SI
graduate degree program, a specific purpose is to build up the information and draw upon the experience
of the implementation to assist with the development of a new general merit-based overseas fellowship
program. To this end, the evaluation framework for the proposed project comprises a range of
instruments, namely: (a) monitoring; (b) mid-term review; and (c) rigorous program impact-evaluation
analyses of the project's major programs. The Bank would review each of these evaluations at the
appropriate annual reviews, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project modifications
to be undertaken as a result.
Monitoring
2.           Routine Monitoring of Individual Fellowships. Progress of overseas fellows would be
monitored by the MOF, OTO, and STAID PIUs using the EEOs when they are assigned such
responsibility. Domestic fellows would be monitored solely by the PIUs. The procedures for monitoring
of fellows were refined during PHRDP I and are satisfactory. There would be further improvements
during the second project including: formal reporting by the PIUs of their monitoring of fellows to the
EEOs and to the home agencies of the fellows, on a quarterly basis; and overseas monitoring visits by
PIU staff.
3.           Annual Reviews. Each PIU would prepare an annual report and operational review
which would analyze the actions programmed with those actually taken for: each project activity, budget
allocations and expenditures, the monitoring indicators, and progress review criteria agreed with the
Bank. Based on this review, an operational plan for the next year would be prepared using the same
format.
Mid-Term Review
4.           The mid-term review would be conducted by the PIUs and NASTOT with inputs
commissioned to consultants as a basis for future investment in professional human resources
development, particularly for a new merit-based national overseas fellowship scheme for the country.
It would comprise inter-alia:
(a)    evaluation of all program activities and their effectiveness in terms of the project quality
indicators and quantitative targets (Annex 8);
(b)    a review of the impact studies for the graduate degree and TMPP programs (para. 12);



48
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
(c)    an assessment of the lessons learned and issues identified at that stage from the
implementation of the pilot overseas fellowship scheme for fresh SI graduates, and from
the studies of the design and implementation of general pre-service fellowship programs
in other selected countries;
(d)    a summary of financial performance compared with the original plan;
(e)    a summary of other implementation issues; and
(f)    recommendations.
Impact-Evaluation Analyses
5.           PHRDP II would be a complex project with several very different objectives. The
fellowships range from three month training for local BAPPEDA officials, to help them make more
informed local planning decisions, to graduate education for some of best and brightest men and women
in the country, to help jump-start Indonesia's technological and industrial development. In between these
extremes is the high level graduate degree and non-degree retraining to government officials, so that they
can better manage their increasingly complex tasks. Proper impact studies of these various interventions
are important and they are being attempted even though they are difficult to implement in practice.
6.           A total of five studies are planned: two each for the graduate degree fellowship and
TMPP programs; and one for the pilot fresh SI graduate degree program (para. 12).
7.           Considerable data have already been collected about the effects of project fellowships.
All the PIUs in PHRDP I have conducted re-entry studies. These studies have largely focussed on asking
a former fellow, or the fellow's supervisor, if the education is being used or whether it has made an
impact on the fellow's performance at work. The results of the reentry studies have been successfully
used to improve the programs and can be used to some extent to identify the impact of the fellowships.
There have been some case studies compiled about fellows who became 'agents of development'. In
addition to continuing the reentry studies, additional information will be collected during PHRDP II; in
particular STAID will begin monitoring professional contributions such as published papers and patents.
As part of the Implementation Completion Report for PHRDP I the components are being asked to
compile data on the impact--including economic effect--of their various programs. This work must be
completed soon after March 31, 1995, the closing of the PHRDP I.
8.           In order to reflect lessons from these on-going evaluation activities, detailed TORs for
the studies are best drawn up after the work of the various PIUs in compiling data and measuring the
impact of fellowships under PHRDP I has been completed and evaluated. At this time an outline of the
principles of the evaluation process is presented here to assist with planning. TORs for the first studies
would be prepared for discussion with the Bank by April 1, 1996.
9.           The evaluation will design and implement routine data collection and studies to evaluate
the project's major programs. The objectives of the studies are: (a) to measure the impact of graduate
degree programs on improving the performance and productivity of individual staff and of departments
and laboratories; and (b) to carry out program evaluations of: (i) the TMPP and to assess the benefits of
the training to participants; and (ii) the fresh S1 graduates pilot program including the post-program status
of the returnees.



49
Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
10.          From the beginning of the project, all PIUs would collect routine data which would be
used to contribute to the studies which they would carry out later to evaluate the impact of the major
programs (para. 12).
11.          Routine Data Collection.  This effort should be designed to further improve the
evaluation capabilities in MOF, OTO and STAID. It will require: (a) routine and ongoing collection of
key data for each major program; and (b) use of a common format for recording data within each PIU.
The kinds of data collected will vary by major program type. Development of the core data bases would
be undertaken by collecting background data on a time-series of key variables. This practice of collecting
a common set of variables should be institutionalized for all interventions.
The data to be collected would include:
(a)   the project quality indicators and quantitative targets (Annex 8);
(b)   the data for fellowship programs would also include salaries, job grades, number of
promotions, and duration since return, for primary jobs and also for secondary jobs
where this can be collected. Specifically for LPND fellowships, the data would include
research output utilization; and
(c)    for the fresh S1 graduates program, the data would include: full background details of
applicants and selected fellows, including wealth or income outcome of the means tests
to select fellows, and other programs they applied for such as an URGE domestic
fellowship; how they were selected for an overseas rather than a domestic fellowship in
the case that they applied for both; progress of pre-departure training; and progress
during their overseas program.
12.          Purpose and Planning of the Studies. In addition to the routine data collected for each
major program, additional data would be collected through survey for each study. For the graduate
degree fellowship and TMPP programs, the studies would be completed by the mid-term review and
the completion of the project. The objective of the first studies of fellowship impact would be to evaluate
program interventions and to improve the programs during the remainder of the project. For the fresh
SI graduate program, one study will be carried out when enough fellows have returned (about the end
of 1998) in order for the results to be used for the design of the possible new national merit-based
overseas fellowship scheme. The final studies of all key programs would be designed to yield concrete
suggestions for improving the quality and or to evaluate the effectiveness of the major programs for long-
term sustainability and as an important contribution to the Implementation Completion Report. The
surveys for these studies would be planned as follows:
(a)    (i) surveys of selected overseas and domestic S2 and S3 returnees and a control group of
staff (including the supervisors/managers of people surveyed); (ii) tracer surveys of
TMPP graduates; and (iii) a tracer survey of the graduates of the fresh SI graduates
program including a control group; and
(b)    a longitudinal series of information about returnees from overseas graduate degree
fellowship programs would also be obtained by including in these surveys the returnees
who were sampled for the tracer surveys carried out during PHRDP I.



50
Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
13.          Survey Design. The design of each survey instrument, its methodology, and limitations,
would be thoroughly discussed by the project staff and reviewed by the Bank (para. 8). In all cases
where there is a second survey, the design of this will evolve from the experience of the earlier one. The
survey design would take into account the following considerations:
(a)   the methodology should build on the experience of the tracer studies used to assess the
impact of returnees during PHRDP l;
(b)   to the extent possible, the control group selected for fellowship programs should resemble
the fellows who attend programs particularly with respect to job grade and responsibility;
and
(c)    both quantitative and qualitative data should be measured. The quantitative data suggested
in para. 11 would be used and the additional information to be collected through the
surveys would be decided when the surveys are being designed.



INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJCTi
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including ContinLpendes (Rp Blllbn)      Totals Including Contingendes (USS Millon)
Category of Expenditure                     199S   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total          1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Tota
Furniture, Equipment and Material            0.4    0.1       -      -       -    0.5         0.2       -             -       -    0.2
Feflowships and Training Progrms
Overseas Fellowships and Training           12.2   26.2   27.6   152       1.5   82.7         5.6   12.1   12.8    7.1    0.7   38.4
Domestic Fellowships and Training            3.0    5.4    6.1    3.7    0.2   18.4            1.4    2.5    2.8    1.7    0.1    8.5
FellowshipsfromPPHRDPI(Loan3134-IND)        16.4   11.8    4.1    1.1        -   33.4         7.6    5.5    1.9    0.5        -   15.5
Preparture Training                          4.0    3.5    2.6    0.8    0.1   10.9            1.8    1.6    1.2    0.4    0.0    5.1
Irnplmentation & Monitoring Costs            1.1    2.0    2.1    1.3    0.4    6.9           0.5    0.9    0.9    0.6    02        3.1
LinklProgramDevelopment                      0.6    2.6    2.3    0.2        -    5.7         0.3    1.2    1.1    0.1        -    2.7
Fellows' Salary                              4.2    6.1    6.0    4.0    0.3   20.7           2.0    2.8    2.8    1.9    0.1    9.6
Sub-total                                   41.6   57.5   50.8   26.4    2.5  178.7          19.3   26.7   23.6   12.2    1.2   82.9
. Technkal Assistance
International Consultants                    0.8    0.6       -    0.1    0.1    1.6          0.4    0.3       -       -      -    0.7
National Consultants                         0.2    0.2    0.2    02       0.2    1.0         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.5
Sub-total                                    1.0    0.8    02      03      0.3    2.6         0.5    0.4    0.1    0.1    0.1    1.2
Research and Studies                         0.8    0.8    0.8    0.6    0.8    3.8           0.4    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.4    1.8
Project Management                           3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    3.1   19.2           1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0    1.5    8.9
Total Project Costs                          47.6   63.2   55.1   31.0    5.8  201.1          21.7   28.9   25.6   14.3    2.7   93.2
Figures nay not add up due to rounding,
Y:



EKDONESA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DVELO PMENT PROJECT
Exp.mdkm Ateo  by Comp.mmta - Teta Incudhag C                      _ihg.Din (US$ Mi_)
CA_qgmY of ExpiWN                           _              Fe_waMips ad Traha                               NASTOT                    Totl
OTO               MOF             STAID
A. FmWbw, Eqiipmint,  d Mas                                  -                  -              0.2                                      0.2
Be Fe _wddps ad Trahg Prograhm
Overusea Felk ahips md Tamig                              10.7               11.5             16.2                                     38.4
Domesbe Fe_IO w    and Trum                                5.5               1.1               1.9                                      8.5
Feilowsla firm PHRDP I (LAI 3134-IND)                      5.5               0.1               9.9                                     15.5
P'm4epmtore Trainin_                                       1.0               2.3               1.8                                      5.1
lhnp1mna  ha Mcwadoringcosts                               0.9               1.1               1.1                  -                   3.1
Link Prgm  Dvelopm                                           -                 -               2.7                  -                   2.7                           -n
Felow. Salay                                               3.4               1.8               4A                   -                   9.6                           r
SubIotal                                                 27.0               17.9              38.0                  -                  82.9
C Tedmcl Am _tanc
nt.naoCazdtat                                              0.2                                 0.5                                      0.7
Nstial CoanItu                                             0.1                 *               0.4 _                                    0.5
Sub-otl                                                    0.3                 -               0.9                  -                   1.2
Da  Ra=ra uad S8udhs                                       0.6                0.2              0.8                0.2                    1.8
EL Project Managaumit                                      2.8                1.2              4.4                0.5                   8.9
Total Project Cust                                        307                193              44.1                Q7                    94.8
Taxes                                                        -                0.1              0.1                   -                   0.2
Foreign Exchane                                           17.3               12.9             27.1                0.1                   57A
*0



53
Annex 11
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMEWFM
Disbursements
IIBRD Fiscal Year      Amount per   Cumulative                 Disbursement Profile /a
semester     Amount   %                       %
1225
2                       5.0           5.0     7                      0
1996
1                       7.0         12.0    17                       1
2                       8.0         20.0    29                       3
1222
1                       8.0         28.0    41                       6
2                       7.0         35.0    51                      14
998
1                       7.0         42.0    61                     22
2                       6.0         48.0    70                      34
i222
1                       6.0         54.0    78                     46
2                       5.0         59.0    86                      58
1                       5.0         64.0    93                     70
2                       2.5         66.5    96                      78
2001
1                       2.5         69.0   100                      86
/a  Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia, August, 1993



54
Anneac 12
ZiDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DoCuMENTS AND DATA AVAABLE IN THE PROECT FILE
A.     Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector and Project
A.1 OTO, "Pilot Reentry Study of OTO Degree Alumni," April, 1993.
A.2 OTO, "Executive Summary: The TMPPD Training Impacts," July 1994.
A.3 MOF, "Reentry Assessment of Overseas Training in MOF Component under World Bank
Funding," 1993.
A.4 STAID, "Overseas Fellowship Program (OFP) Completion Report - Annex 1: OFP Results: An
Assessment of Performance and Impact of Returnees," May, 1993.
A.5 STAID, "Science and Technology Indicators of Indonesia 1993 - 1st Edition," 1993.
A.6 GOI, "Government Decree No. 14 on Education and Training of Position for Civil Servants,"
1994.
A.7  GOI, "Government Decree No. 15 on Appointment of Civil Servants to Structural Positions,"
1994.
A.8 GOI, "Government Decree No. 16 on Functional Positions of Civil Servants," 1994.
A.9 Directorate General of Higher Education, Ministry of Education and Culture, "List of Fields
of Study for S2 and S3 in Indonesian Universities."
B. Background Papers Related to Project Preparation
B.1 OTO, "PHRDP II - Project Proposals," January, April, & July, 1994.
B.2 MOF, "PHRDP H - Final Proposal," July, 1994.
B.3 STAID, "PHRDP II - Project Proposals," January, April, & July, 1994.
B.4 Detailed Project Cost Tables
B.5 Green-cover Staff Appraisal Report, September 23, 1994



INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of PERDP II
National Stccring Team for Ovrsas Training
(NASTO0)
nm amkmo 6 Ra4ENAS
DmvCwmAsw uziatwferk. H~m RAuwva, A Saow. med T.ehmaV,j
D.wd.pneW
Sec&w FVwtfor Lanue and Ou1tsw. BAPPEN~AS
D0100H*4 Rurme of RWVgiw Ehcmwiao Ceburv, A Sp-&, BAPPEN~AS
fd w:Dr.  GumiW of Hiahw Eh.cwtsomk MWaay of EdAscimw A Cukear
Okarwsov4 RPI, MOF
Assietm* Miusat. II, MEANPN
DDiutyfo Trmug, L4N
Dqyr Eabusmufor Hmu  Rmoc, BAPPENAS
Dq_uy aH,uisfw FlW ig C-pom.^S BAPPENAS
Dqiuty C2 ureuferA& r, iox LAN PPT
Dyeod Ceairmmfeer A *i.    di  'dire, OTO, BAPPEVAS                                                  tn
1e1m4 Blmfeor Fereeg. Tedeical Ceepewme CakiSeateit
I   NASTOT Secretariat      j
Ovrseas Trainig Office (OTO)                    Mrundsty of Finance (O)                       Sciene and Tech,ologyfor
ProjedImpkmmtaion Uni                         Project Im^pkemtaion Unit
Projectlmkd on Unit



INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of OTO Project Implementation Unit
General Director
! Overseas Training Office (OTO)
_  '
Directorate I              Directorate II             Directorate HII             Directorate IV             Directorate V
Selctcn   Tesing         Pacement & Monitoting        Systems  E Eabation           Administration            A     trationg    J
Clihe  Mistries & Arencies:
Miustries of Home Afmiars, Public
Works, Agriulture, Forestry;
BAPPENAS, BAPPEDA, LPNDs;
Private Universiies
N1



Chart 3
INDONESIA
SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of MOF Fellowship and Training Implementation Unit
Steering Committee
Adisors: Minister of Finance
Secretary General, MOF
Chairman: Chief, BPLK, MOF
Secrearv: Head, Personnel Education & Training Center
Members: Secrdary General, Ministry of Trade
Secrdeary General, Ministry of Industry
Secrdeary General, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Secrdeary General, BKPM
Director of Project Implementation Ulnit (PI)Q
Chief, Overseas Training Division, BPLK, MOF
Secretariia
Section for                         Section for                          SecSton for
Selection & Preparaton              Placement & Monitoring              Administration & Finance
.~ ~~~~~~~. . . ..    ...    ... . . .
Client Ministries:
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Trade
Ministry of Indnstry
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
BKPM



........ ..                 0 .
iti,i f S  ,    g itiIhI I
LL
hIIIIb1  Cm
85~ ~ i



