Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3825 IND
                              Loan Agreement
         (Second Professional Human Resource Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 11, 1995
                                            LOAN NUMBER 3825 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the
          Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
          of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a) "BAPPEDA" means any of the Borrower's Regional
Development Planning Agencies;
    (b) "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's National Development
Planning Board;
    (c) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
    (d) "Link Programs" means programs established by the
Overseas Training Office and the Science and Technology for
Industrial Development PIUs, to improve institutional
coordination between domestic and overseas universities in
selected fields of study;
    (e) "Loan 3134-IND" means the Loan Agreement for the
Professional Human Resources Development between the Republic
of Indonesia and the Bank dated December 18, 1989;
    (f) "NASTOT" means the Borrower's National Steering Team for
Overseas Training established in BAPPENAS;
    (g) "Overseas Training Office" means the Borrower's Overseas
Training Office established in BAPPENAS;
    (h) "Science and Technology for Industrial Development PIUs"
means the Borrower's Project implementation units serving
government research institutes and coordinated and managed by
the Borrower's Agency for the Assessment and Application of
Technology (BPPT); and
    (i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty nine million dollars
($69,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
Page  3
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                 the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
Page  4
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
                certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such
                expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 2458
          Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                FINMINISTRY                      45799 DJMLN-IA
                Jakarta                          44319 DEPKEU-IA
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
Page  6
                INTBAFRAD                        248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                  82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Overseas                 51,600,000       100%
          fellowships and
          training
(2)       Domestic                  4,000,000       50%
          fellowships and
          training
(3)       Pre-departure             3,900,000       80%
          training and
          expenses
(4)       Fellowship                3,100,000       100%
          management costs
(5)       Link Programs             1,300,000       50%
          development
(6)       Studies and research      1,300,000       80%
(7)       Consultants'                900,000       80%
          services
(8)       Unallocated               2,900,000
          TOTAL                    69,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
    (a)   the term "pre-departure expenses" means expenditures
for in-country travel, per diem, honoraria and fees;
    (b)   the term "fellowship management costs" means
expenditures for fees to educational exchange organizations
managing fellowships under the Project, and travel and per diem
costs for staff of the Overseas Training Office, Ministry of
Finance, and Science and Technology for Industrial Development
PIUs; and
    (c)   the term "Link Programs development" means expenditures
for honoraria, travel and per diem for university staff and
staff of the Overseas Training Office and the Science and
Technology for Industrial Development PIUs involved in the
development of a Link Program.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for the employment of consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment
of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to foster economic
development and industrialization and assist the Borrower in
the implementation of its policies of deregulation and
decentralization through the upgrading of the quality of
professional, technical, managerial, and science and technology
staff in key government ministries and agencies at the local
and national levels and, on a limited scale, in the private
sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Fellowships and Training
1.  Domestic and Overseas Graduate Degree Programs
    (a)   Overseas Training Office
          Provision of about 49 domestic and about 107 overseas
fellowships for graduate education and training in development
planning, policy analysis and development management to
selected staff of the Borrower's ministries and agencies,
BAPPEDA, and selected universities and non-governmental
organizations.
    (b)   Ministry of Finance
          Provision of about 65 domestic and about 120 overseas
fellowships for graduate education and training in finance and
monetary policy, economic planning, financial management, and
international trade to selected staff of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Trade,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and BKPM (Investment Coordinating
Board).
    (c)   Science and Technology for Industrial Development PIUs
          Provision of about 130 domestic and about 130 overseas
Page  8
fellowships to civil servants from the Borrower's BAKOSURTANAL
(National Agency for Survey and Mapping), BATAN (National
Agency for Atomic Energy), BPPT (Agency for the Assessment and
Application of Technology), BPS (Central Bureau of Statistics),
LAPAN (National Institute for Aeronautics), LIPI (National
Institute of Sciences), BPIS (Coordinating Agency for Strategic
Industries), and the research and development centers of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Industry, for master's and
doctorate degree programs in science and technology related to
economic and industrial development and in line with the
national development objectives.
    (d)   Provision of fellowships for graduate education
programs to about 102 doctoral, about 138 master's and about
185 bachelor's degree civil servant fellows having initiated,
but not completed, such studies under Loan 3134-IND.
2.  Domestic and Overseas Non-degree Programs
    (a)   Overseas Training Office
          Provision of about 1,085 domestic and about 50 overseas
non-degree fellowships in regional development planning and
management techniques to district level staff of BAPPEDA and to
instructors to upgrade their teaching capability of such
courses.
    (b)   Ministry of Finance
    (i)   Provision of about 75 domestic non-degree fellowships
          for studies in taxation, tax auditing, property
          appraisal, capital markets and bank supervision to
          civil servants from the Borrower's Ministry of Finance,
          Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Trade, Ministry of
          Foreign Affairs, and BKPM (Investment Coordinating
          Board), having a bachelor's degree and employed as
          junior researchers, junior trainers and structural
          staff up to Echelon IV.
    (ii)  Provision of about 60 overseas non-degree fellowships
          for refresher courses to civil servants, including
          returnees who have completed about 3 years of work
          since their return from overseas studies, and are
          employed as trainers, researchers, and structural
          policy-making staff at Echelons III and IV in the
          Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry,
          Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and
          BKPM (Investment Coordinating Board).
    (c)   Science and Technology for Industrial Development PIUs
    (i)   Provision of about 50 domestic non-degree fellowships
          to civil servants from the Borrower's BAKOSURTANAL
          (National Agency for Survey and Mapping), BATAN
          (National Agency for Atomic Energy), BPPT (Agency for
          the Assessment and Application of Technology), BPS
          (Central Bureau of Statistics), LAPAN (National
          Institute for Aeronautics), LIPI (National Institute of
          Sciences), BPIS (Coordinating Agency for Strategic
          Industries), and the research and development centers
          of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry, for
          studies in management and technical skills, among
          others personnel management, quality assurance and
          energy conservation.
   (ii)   Provision of about 50 overseas non-degree
          fellowships to civil servants from the Borrower's
          BAKOSURTANAL (National Agency for Survey and
          Mapping), BATAN (National Agency for Atomic
          Energy), BPPT (Agency for the Assessment and
          Application of Technology), BPS (Central Bureau
          of Statistics), LAPAN (National Institute for
Page  9
          Aeronautics), LIPI (National Institute of
          Sciences), BPIS (Coordinating Agency for
          Strategic Industries), and the research and
          development centers of the Ministries of
          Agriculture and Industry, for studies in advanced
          technical skills not available in Indonesia,
          among others aeronautics, industrial pollution
          control and biotechnology.
3.  Graduate Link Programs
    (a)   Overseas Training Office
          Development of a Link Program between domestic and
overseas universities for about 10 fellows selected from staff
of the Borrower's ministries and agencies, BAPPEDA, and
selected universities, for graduate education in development
planning, policy analysis and development management at one or
more domestic universities; and strengthening of graduate
studies in development planning, policy analysis and
development management at domestic universities.
    (b)   Science and Technology for Industrial Development PIUs
          Development of four Link Programs between domestic and
overseas universities covering about 10 doctorate fellowships
and about 51 master's fellowships for staff from the Borrower's
BAKOSURTANAL (National Agency for Survey and Mapping), BATAN
(National Agency for Atomic Energy), BPPT (Agency for the
Assessment and Application of Technology), BPS (Central Bureau
of Statistics), LAPAN (National Institute for Aeronautics),
LIPI (National Institute of Sciences), BPIS (Coordinating
Agency for Strategic Industries), and the research and
development centers of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Industry, to improve institutional coordination and develop
additional science and technology graduate education capacity
at universities that is relevant for research institutes and
industry.
4.  Overseas Fellowships for Recent Domestic
    Bachelor's Degree (S1) Graduates
    (a)   Overseas Training Office
          Provision of about 30 overseas fellowships to recent
domestic bachelor's degree graduates not currently employed,
for graduate studies in development planning, policy analysis
and development management areas, where specific high quality
programs are not available in Indonesia.
    (b)   Ministry of Finance
          Provision of about 30 overseas fellowships to recent
domestic bachelor's degree graduates not currently employed,
for graduate studies in finance and monetary policy, economic
planning, financial management, and international trade, where
specific high quality programs are not available in Indonesia.
    (c)   Science and Technology for Industrial Development PIUs
          Provision of about 30 overseas graduate degree
fellowships to recent domestic bachelor's degree graduates not
currently employed, for graduate studies in science and
technology, management and technical skills relevant to
industrial development, where specific high quality programs
are not available in Indonesia.
5.  Improved Utilization of Civil Service Returnees from
    Domestic and Overseas Graduate Fellowship Programs
    Strengthening of applicable personnel policies to improve
the re-entry and the utilization of civil service returnees in
Page  10
the relevant ministries and the non-departmental government
research institutes.
6.  Overseas Fellowship Services to Public and Private Firms
    Provision of services, including testing, placement and
monitoring, to public and private firms sending employees
overseas for degree and non-degree training at the firm's
expense.
7.  Technical Assistance and Studies
    (a)   Provision of technical assistance to the Overseas
Training Office and the Science and Technology for Industrial
Development PIUs, for supporting the coordination of language
training, testing and selection procedures, re-entry and Link
Programs development, and Project management.
    (b)   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out
of technical audits of Project activities.
    (c)   Carrying out of studies by the Overseas Training
Office, Ministry of Finance, and the Science and Technology for
Industrial Development PIUs, on the efficient utilization of
the capabilities of returnees from fellowship programs, and on
the impact of fellowships on the performance and contributions
of returnees.
PART B: National Steering Team for Overseas Training
    Strengthening the capacity of NASTOT to formulate policy,
coordinate civil service fellowship programs, monitor the pilot
fellowship programs for recent domestic bachelor's degree
graduates, and undertake studies and activities on a merit-
based national fellowship scheme, including provision of
research activities, study tours, and technical assistance.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 2000                              1,325,000
March 1, 2001                                  1,375,000
September 1, 2001                              1,420,000
March 1, 2002                                  1,470,000
September 1, 2002                              1,525,000
March 1, 2003                                  1,580,000
September 1, 2003                              1,635,000
March 1, 2004                                  1,690,000
September 1, 2004                              1,750,000
March 1, 2005                                  1,815,000
September 1, 2005                              1,880,000
March 1, 2006                                  1,945,000
September 1, 2006                              2,015,000
March 1, 2007                                  2,085,000
September 1, 2007                              2,160,000
March 1, 2008                                  2,235,000
September 1, 2008                              2,315,000
March 1, 2009                                  2,400,000
September 1, 2009                              2,485,000
March 1, 2010                                  2,570,000
September 1, 2010                              2,665,000
March 1, 2011                                  2,760,000
September 1, 2011                              2,855,000
Page  11
March 1, 2012                                  2,955,000
September 1, 2012                              3,060,000
March 1, 2013                                  3,170,000
September 1, 2013                              3,285,000
March 1, 2014                                  3,400,000
September 1, 2014                              3,520,000
March 1, 2015                                  3,655,000
_____________________________
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                   0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                   0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                      0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                   0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                    1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                           Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
Page  12
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  In carrying out Part A.1 (a), (b) and (c) and A.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1995,
furnish to the Bank criteria and procedures, acceptable to the
Bank, for the selection of candidates for domestic and overseas
fellowships.
2.  In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than April 30, 1995, furnish to the Bank procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, for the selection of candidates and the
placement of returnees.
3.  In carrying out Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1995, establish the
administrative arrangements for overseas fellowships.
4.  In carrying out Parts A.7 and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than April 30, 1995, employ consultants in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.  In carrying out Part A.7 (b) of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
    (a)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually on
the implementation of selection criteria and procedures under
the Project, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, during the
implementation of the Project, commencing not later than April
1, 1996; and
    (b)   annually, commencing not later than July 1, 1996,
furnish to the Bank, for comments, a copy of such audits.
6.  In carrying out Part A.7 (c) of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish the findings and recommendations of the studies
to the Bank for comments:
    (a)   by September 30, 1997 and by December 31, 1999, for the
first and second study, respectively, relating to the domestic
and overseas graduate program returnees and the BAPPEDA Level
II training program; and
    (b)   by March 31, 1999, for the impact study of returnees
from the Program for Recent Domestic Bachelor's Degree
Graduates.
7.  In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall,
Page  13
not later than April 30, 1995, appoint at least one additional
professional staff to the Secretariat of NASTOT.
8.  In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than September 30, 1997, carry out a study on
the establishment of a competitive national fellowship scheme,
and furnish the findings and the recommendations of the study
to the Bank for comments; and
    (b)   promptly thereafter, prepare an action plan on the
establishment of such a scheme, taking into account the
comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the study.
9.  The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 in each year,
commencing March 31, 1996, and until completion of the Project,
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments an annual Project
implementation plan for the following Fiscal Year; and,
thereafter, carry out such plan taking into account the
comments of the Bank thereon.
10. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1997,
carry out a mid-term review of Project implementation and, not
later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank for comments
the recommendations formulated on the basis of such review.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$20,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
Page  15
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
