                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 24036

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (CPL-38250; SCL-3825A; SCPD-3825S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 69.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

           SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                             APRIL 30, 2002




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 20, 2001)

                            Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                Rp. 1,000 = US$ 0.10
                                 US$ 1.00 = Rp. 10,106

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1 -  March 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS  National Development Planning Agency
BPLK      Education and Training Agency, MOF
BPPT      Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
COTOFOPET Coordinating Team for Overseas Funds Optimization Plan for Education and
          Training
EEO       Educational Exchange Organization
ETCDP     Education and Training Center for Development Planning, BAPPENAS
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
LIPI      Indonesian Institute of Sciences
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NASTOT    National Steering Team for Overseas Training
NOL       No Objection Letter
OFUTET    Overseas Fund Utilization Team for Education and Training
OTO       Overseas Training Office, BAPPENAS
PHRD I    (First) Professional Human Resource Development Project
PHRD II   Second Professional Human Resource Development Project
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
STAID     Science and Technology for Industrial Development Program, BPPT
TOEFL     Test of English as a Foreign Language
TPA       Test of Academic Potential/Aptitude Test
USAID     United States Agency for International Development


                          Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                        Country Director:    Mark Baird
                          Sector Director:   Emmanuel Jimenez
                      Task Team Leader:      Halsey Beemer

                                         INDONESIA
   SECOND PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44

Project ID: P003988                                                      Project Name: ID-PHRD II
Team Leader: Halsey L. Beemer                                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 1, 2002


1. Project Data

                   Name: ID-PHRD II                                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-38250;
                                                                                                       SCL-3825A;
                                                                                                       SCPD-3825S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                       Region
        Sector/subsector: EY - Other Education

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/23/1994                                        Effective: 04/11/1995              02/15/1995
   Appraisal:    06/22/1994                                            MTR: 09/15/1997                03/02/1998
    Approval:    12/15/1994                                         Closing: 09/30/2000               10/31/2001

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/OFUTET/BAPPENAS/MOF/BPPT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:           Mark Baird                                          Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:            Emmanuel Jimenez                                    Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:        Halsey L. Beemer                                    Man He You
ICR Primary Author:        David A. Klaus

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HUN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

This project, the Second Professional Human Resources Development Project (PHRD II), was a
follow-up project to the first Professional Human Resource Development Project (PHRD I)

(Loan 3134-IND). At the time the Loan for PHRD II was approved (December 15, 1994),
Indonesia had achieved an impressive long-term growth rate of GDP, averaging over 6 percent
annually over a period of 25 years. (The First 25-Year Long-Term Plan ended in 1993.)
Structural reforms in the early 1990s had laid the foundation for the diversification and deepening
of the economy, with growth led by the private sector. It was generally agreed that Indonesia
could not, however, maintain its export growth without further structural change and a shift in the
economy toward higher value-added manufactures. It was recognized that continued growth,
deepening of the economy, and diversification under the Second 25-Year Long-Term Plan
(1994-2018) would require a rapid expansion in the mass of well-educated and highly skilled
professional, managerial, scientific, and technical staff throughout the economy, in both the public
and the private sectors.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia presented to the Bank's Executive
Directors on April 12, 1994, highlighted human resource development as a key objective. The
project was prepared within the framework of the Bank's larger involvement in Indonesia's higher
education and training strategies, overall human resource development policies, and civil service
reforms. PHRD II was an investment program for human resource development that focused on
specific weaknesses, namely, the lack of adequate numbers of professional, managerial, scientific,
and technical manpower needed to staff and manage the changing economy.

The project's major objective was therefore to foster economic development and industrialization
and facilitate policies of deregulation and decentralization by upgrading the quality of
professional, managerial, and science and technology staff in key government ministries and
agencies both at the local and national levels and, on a limited scale, in the private sector.

A second, related objective was to strengthen the technical capacity of the three government
agencies respectively responsible for (a) economic planning, (b) finance, and (c) application of
science and technology, through a massive upgrading of selected members of their staffs.

A third objective of PHRD II was to diversify the use of government scholarships, both in terms
of institutions (i.e., by using domestic training institutions and universities in addition to overseas
institutions) and in terms of sectors (i.e., by granting scholarships not only to civil servants in the
public sector but also to individuals who intended to seek employment in the private sector).
(PHRD I had focused on overseas fellowships for mid-career civil servants and employees of
public enterprises.)

A related fourth objective of the project was to lay the groundwork for a proposed general,
national competitive fellowship scheme under which, eventually, government (and Bank) funding
might be provided to recent and as yet unemployed college graduates to undertake graduate
studies overseas in technical areas not yet available in sufficient quality in Indonesia. It was
intended that these fellows, both in the project-supported pilot and in any follow-up operation,
would find employment in the private sector.

A fifth objective of the project was to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate
Government policy on fellowships, coordinate civil-service fellowship programs, and monitor the



                                                   - 2 -

progress of fellows and, in particular, to reduce the Government's dependence on expensive
consultants' services provided primarily by agencies (Educational Exchange Organizations)
(EEOs) in the Part I countries where overseas fellows studied.

A sixth objective of the project was to improve the utilization of civil-service returnees from the
overseas and domestic fellowship programs.

A final objective of the project was to expand opportunities for women in the three public
implementing agencies by establishing targets for female scholarship recipients (25% of the
scholarships awarded by the National Development Planning Agency, 20% of those awarded by
the Ministry of Finance, and 15% or those awarded by the Agency for the Assessment and
Application of Technology) which were higher than the percentage of women in corresponding
positions in these three agencies, respectively. This final objective appears to have been added by
the Bank either during or after project appraisal.

3.2 Revised Objective:

In February 1996, the Minister of State for National Development Planning and Chairman of the
National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) issued a policy directive that those
completing graduate studies under the pilot program of overseas fellowships for recent graduates
of domestic bachelor's programs would be required to find employment in the public sector, not
in the private sector. The reason given by the Government for this decision (in a letter dated
February 14, 1996, to the World Bank from the Assistant Minister for Human Resource and
Technology Development, BAPPENAS) was that ". . . current experience in Government
continu[ed] to underline the urgent need for higher-qualified personnel to plan and execute
government policy, especially in the key development-related Ministries." The Government was
adamant, and the Bank acquiesced. The Government argued, inter alia, that it was responsible to
the public for the use of Government funds, including borrowed funds, and whereas the public
easily accepted that civil servants needed more training, the use of Government funds to benefit
private individuals, even carefully selected individuals, would not have been accepted by the
public. This decision resulted in the curtailment of the project's fourth objective, that of
developing a general, national competitive fellowships scheme of overseas fellowships for recent
university graduates who would be expected to seek employment in the private sector on their
return.

By the mid-1990s, the Government of Indonesia had realized that the expanding economy could
no longer be centrally managed and that in fact efforts to sustain central control over the economy
were counterproductive. As part of the Government's decentralization efforts, there was a
conscious effort, about halfway through the project, to place greater emphasis on the training of
staff for provincial and district agencies, so that they would be able to take over the new
responsibilities devolved to them.

3.3 Original Components:

The main original project component was the Fellowships and Training Component,
accounting for over 99% of the total project cost. This component consisted of four



                                                  - 3 -

subcomponents. Three subcomponents were new programs for (i) civil servants and (ii) recent
graduates of domestic bachelor's programs, each with a similar range of activities but for different
client groups and in different subject areas and managed by a different government agency, as
follows:

    (a) the Overseas Training Office (OTO) component, later renamed the Education and
        Training Center for Development Planning (ETCDP), of the National Development
        Planning Agency (BAPPENAS). This component was intended to provide training in
        national and regional development planning, policy analysis, and development
        management to selected staff of various agencies involved in planning. Targets for this
        subcomponent (set forth in Annex 1, Table 1) were as follows:

        - in graduate degree programs: 156 fellowships (49 domestic and 107 overseas)
        - in non-degree programs: 1,135 fellowships (1,085 domestic and 50 overseas)
        - in Link programs (involving domestic and overseas universities): 10 fellowships
        - for recent graduates of bachelor's programs: 30 overseas fellowships

    (b) the Education and Training Agency (BPLK) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
        component. This component was intended to provide training in finance and monetary
        policy, taxation, economic planning, financial management, international trade, and related
        areas to various government agencies involved in government finance. Targets for this
        subcomponent (set forth in Annex 1, Table 1) were as follows:

        - in graduate degree programs: 185 fellowships (65 domestic and 120 overseas)
        - in non-degree programs: 135 fellowships (75 domestic and 60 overseas)
        - for recent graduates of bachelor's programs: 30 overseas fellowships

    (c) the Science and Technology for Industrial Development (STAID) program of the
        Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT) component. This
        component was intended to provide training in various areas of science and technology
        related to economic and industrial development. Targets for this subcomponent (set forth
        in Annex 1, Table 1) were as follows:

        - in graduate degree programs: 260 fellowships (130 domestic and 130 overseas)
        - in non-degree programs: 100 fellowships (50 domestic and 50 overseas)
        - in four Link programs: 10 doctoral and 51 master's fellowships
        - for recent graduates of bachelor's programs: 30 overseas fellowships

The improved utilization of civil-service returnees from domestic and overseas graduate
programs was to be accomplished through tracer studies, the subsequent strengthening of
applicable personnel policies regarding placement, and the impact of fellowships on the
performance and contributions of returnees.

All three agencies were intended to provide, free of charge, overseas fellowship services, such as
testing (selection), placement, and monitoring to public and private firms who wished, at their



                                                 - 4 -

own expense, to send their employees overseas for degree or non-degree training.

The fourth subcomponent of the Fellowships and Training Component provided fellowships to
students who had initiated, but not completed, their studies under the first Professional Human
Resource Development Project (PHRD I) (Loan 3134-IND) and included 102 doctoral, 138
master's, and 185 bachelor's programs.

The other original project component was the National Steering Team for Overseas Training
(NASTOT) Component, later renamed the Coordinating Team for Overseas Funds
Optimization Plan for Education and Training (COTOFOPET), then renamed the Overseas
Fund Utilization Team for Education and Training (OFUTET), accounting for less that 1%
of the total project cost. This component was to include research activities, study tours, and
technical assistance to strengthen NASTOT's capacity to oversee government-funded fellowship
programs, as described above under the objectives. In particular, technical assistance was
provided for carrying out (i) annual technical audits of project activities and (ii) implementation
plans for the upcoming year.

3.4 Revised Components:

Following the Government's directive in February 1996 that returnees who had been recent
graduates of bachelor's programs (para. 3.2) would be required to find employment in the civil
service, the pilot scheme for these graduates was curtailed.

During the Mid-Term Review (March 1998), the targets for overseas and domestic fellowships
were adjusted upwards (Annex 1, Table 2). Several factors had resulted in savings, enabling this
increase: (a) the curtailment of the pilot scheme of overseas fellowships for recent graduates of
domestic bachelor's programs; (b) a reduction in dollar terms (following the significant
devaluation of the Rupiah in 1997) in the costs of pre-departure training and studies and research,
both provided domestically; and (c) a reduction in the reliance on EEOs, as the project
implementing agencies became increasingly capable of managing placement and monitoring on
their own.

The Loan Closing Date was extended from September 30, 2000, to September 30, 2001, for those
Loan Categories supporting overseas and domestic fellowships and training and fellowship
management costs. This extension was intended to address professional development staff needs
in selected key Ministries to assist Indonesia in recovery from economic crisis and to implement
the policies of the emerging reform government. At that time, the targets for overseas and
domestic fellowships were again adjusted upwards (Annex 1, Table 3), particularly to provide
non-degree training in areas not specifically mentioned in the Staff Appraisal Report or Loan
Agreement but definitely consonant with the project's major objective. (The Closing Date for
selected Categories was extended a second time, by one month, to October 31, 2001, to allow
payments to be made on the final courses before the Closing Date.)

3.5 Quality at Entry:

No review of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) was undertaken at project inception. The



                                                 - 5 -

project had been prepared, however, in tandem with supervision of the first Professional Human
Resource Development Project, and many of the procedures and mechanisms required to
implement the second project were already in place. In particular, procedures for selection of
fellows, pre-departure training, placement, monitoring, and reporting were already in place, and
the three implementing agencies already had proven track records of successful implementation.
The lessons learned during the implementation of PHRD I had been used in designing the new
project, including: (a) more use of domestic graduate programs; (b) measures to improve the
utilization of fellowship returnees; (c) project interventions to strengthen the overall coordination
of graduate training for civil servants; and (d) actions to strengthen project financial management.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's major objective was to foster economic development and industrialization and
facilitate policies of deregulation and decentralization by upgrading the quality of professional,
managerial, and science and technology staff in key government ministries and agencies both at
the local and national levels and, on a limited scale, in the private sector.

It is now and will in the future be virtually impossible to determine the project's specific impact on
"fostering economic development and industrialization and facilitating policies of deregulation and
decentralization." During the first part of the project implementation period, late 1994 through
mid-1997 (when the East Asian crisis began), the Indonesian economy and, in particular, its
industrial sector exhibited continued rapid growth and probably would have done so without the
project, both because many other factors were involved and because by mid-1997 only a few of
the graduates of the project-supported programs had completed their training. Similarly, during
this period deregulation and decentralization currents strengthened not for any project-related
reasons but because the central government realized increasingly that the Indonesian economy and
society had become too large to manage effectively from the center. During the second half of the
project implementation period, mid-1997 through late 2001, the Indonesian economy imploded
and then stagnated for reasons unconnected with the project, and deregulation and
decentralization occurred more because of Indonesia's continuing political crisis than because of
any project-related factors.

Mechanisms to make explicit the links between the upgrading of civil servants in core government
agencies and the development of the Indonesian economy were not developed during project
preparation and appraisal. Therefore, it is impossible, at the present time, to claim a causal
relationship between this project and Indonesia's many years of rapid economic growth--or, for
that matter, to determine to what extent the project may have mitigated the impact of the crisis.
Attempts were made during preparation and appraisal, however, to develop quality indicators
(Annex 1, Table 8) which would give some approximation as to whether the project was having
an impact on the sponsoring agencies, the private sector, the research community, and Indonesia's
universities.

The Bank's study on Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Policies for Productivity
Gains and Employment Growth (Report No. 16990-IND) was published on July 29, 1997, when


                                                  - 6 -

the PHRD II project had been under way for about two and a half years. Its chapter on the
"Education and Training of Civil Servants" pointed out that training programs catering only to
civil servants were providing substantial private benefits at considerable cost to a rather small pool
of individuals who were already better off than the population at large. It recommended that the
civil service make efforts to recruit candidates with appropriate qualifications who had already
been trained, rather than recruiting underqualified candidates who would then need in-service
training. It concluded that some training would nevertheless always be required and that this
should be allocated on the basis of strict criteria and contracted out to existing training agencies
to the extent possible. Thus in hindsight, it appears that the design of the PHRD II project was
consonant with the conclusions of the study, although nowadays the Bank might require a more
rigorous analysis of the link between (a) a fellowships program for mid-career civil servants and
(b) the impact on economic development before agreeing to support such a program on a such a
massive scale.

Although it is impossible to determine the PHRD II project's specific impact on "fostering
economic development and industrialization and facilitating policies of deregulation and
decentralization," it is possible to comment on "upgrading the quality of professional, managerial,
and science and technology staff in key government ministries and agencies both at the local and
national levels and, on a limited scale, in the private sector." The upgrading itself was largely
achieved, both quantitatively and qualitatively, for the public sector, both at the national and at
the local levels. (Details on the quantitative outputs are given below in Section 4.2, Outputs by
components, and in Annex 1, Tables 4, 5, 6, and 7.) The impact on the private sector, intended to
derive from the program for recent graduates of domestic bachelor's programs, was not achieved
as a result of the Government's policy directive of February 1996 and the consequent revision of
the project's objectives (para. 3.2). This effort in the private sector, however, was to be only a
pilot scheme, and in comparison with the training for the public sector, it was never a major part
of the project.

Conclusions as to the qualitative impact of the upgrading are preliminary, since they can be based
only on those returnees from both overseas and domestic programs who completed their training
long enough ago for one to be able to judge whether they have made an impact on their agencies.
At the present time, it obviously can not include those returnees who have returned only recently
or who are now just completing their studies. Tracer studies carried out as part of the project
determined that at least three quarters of the returnees were placed in positions appropriate to
their newly acquired expertise. A moderate increase in the amount of research and in the number
of patents, journal articles published nationally and internationally, and training of other staff has
also been documented, although some of the evidence is only partial and impressionistic.

The related second objective, to strengthen the technical capacity of the three participating
government agencies (BAPPENAS, MOF, and STAID-BPPT) (para. 3.3), was also achieved.
Here also, the quantitative evidence (numbers of staff who obtained advanced degrees or
additional short-term training) is easier to marshal than is the evidence of a qualitative impact.
Changes in the effectiveness of BAPPENAS, MOF, and STAID have been affected by many
factors in addition to staff upgrading efforts, including the major upheavals in Indonesia's
economic and political context and accompanying changes in personnel and resource availability.



                                                  - 7 -

Bank staff and others who have worked with these agencies over a period of time report that they
have achieved gains in competence and sophistication, building on the already high levels they
enjoyed, relative to those of most other developing countries, at project inception, and at least
some of these perceived gains must be due to the training received with project-provided
fellowships. Research undertaken as part of the project also demonstrated that there have been
increases in transfers of knowledge (mentoring of peers, teaching in universities, and training and
presentations given to both the public and private sectors) and in other indicators of increased
skill levels (research grants awarded, domestic and international patents issued, and projects
developed with universities, private industries, and public agencies and industries).

The third objective, to diversify the use of government scholarships in terms of institutions (i.e.,
domestic training institutions and universities in addition to overseas institutions), was
successfully achieved. Whereas PHRD I sponsored only fellowships overseas, well over half the
number of fellows trained under PHRD II obtained their training in domestic institutions. (The
biggest number of the fellows trained in domestic institutions was those who undertook
short-term, non-degree courses. For degree courses, the ratio was reversed, with almost twice as
many studying abroad as studied locally.) The second part of this objective, to diversify the use of
government scholarships in terms of sectors (private as well as public) by providing fellowships
and training for recent graduates who would then find employment in the private sector, was
dropped from the project in 1996 (para. 3.2).

The fourth objective of the project, to lay the groundwork for a proposed general, national
competitive fellowship scheme under which, eventually, government (and Bank) funding might be
provided to recent college graduates to undertake graduate studies overseas in technical areas not
yet available in sufficient quality in Indonesia and then seek employment in the private sector, was
abandoned in 1996 (para. 3.2), together with the fellowships program for recent graduates of
domestic bachelor's programs. It should be noted that before this objective was dropped from the
project, 48 of a projected 90 recent graduates of domestic bachelor's programs had already been
sent overseas for graduate programs. Under the Government's new policy, however, these 48
were required to accept employment in the civil service rather than being free to seek employment
in the private sector.

The fifth objective of the project, to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate
Government policy on fellowships, coordinate civil-service fellowship programs, and monitor the
progress of fellows and, in particular, to reduce the Government's dependence on consultants'
services provided primarily by EEOs, was successfully achieved. The implementing agencies are,
with one exception, carrying out these tasks successfully with no further reliance on the EEOs
used during the first years of the project. OTO/ETCDP reported that one of the EEOs they used
had helped them to develop their own independent placement, coordinating, and monitoring
mechanisms and procedures.

The sixth objective of the project, to improve the utilization of civil-service returnees from the
overseas and domestic fellowship programs, was also apparently successfully achieved, to the
extent data are available on earlier returnees. Specific tracer studies and other research were
undertaken during the project to serve as a basis for modifying personnel policies to ensure that



                                                  - 8 -

returnees were put to the most appropriate use.

The final objective of the project, to expand opportunities for women in the three public
implementing agencies, was achieved, albeit apparently without a specific intention to do so. All
three implementing agencies freely admitted that the fellows were chosen on the basis of strict
application of the criteria for selection (academic testing, language testing, grade point average or
class standing, and, in some cases, psychological testing). No special quotas were established for
beneficiary agencies, with the result that fellows were chosen on the basis of personal
qualifications and not agency affiliation. Gender criteria were also not used; the three
implementing agencies felt that it would have been unfair to introduce an "affirmative action"
program for women which would result in the relaxing of the selection criteria. Since many more
mid-career civil servants are men than women, and since applications were restricted to this pool,
there were more men than women who applied, and more men than women who were selected.
Nevertheless, at project close, the percentages of women who received fellowships under each
agency's subcomponent turns out to have been remarkably close to the targets established in the
Staff Appraisal Report: 24% of the fellowships awarded by the National Development Planning
Agency went to women (as compared to the target of 25%), 27% of those awarded by the
Ministry of Finance (as compared to the target of 20%), and 16% of those awarded by the
Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (as compared to a target of 15%).

4.2 Outputs by components:

The Fellowships and Training Component was highly satisfactory, in terms of the numbers of
fellows and trainees who completed their training successfully (Annex 1, Table 4), compared both
with the targets established at appraisal and with the higher targets established during the
Mid-Term Review and then for the extension period (Annex 1, Tables 5, 6, and 7). The only
original target not achieved was for doctor's degrees obtained domestically. The implementing
agencies explained that it had been very difficult to find a sufficient number of candidates with
grade-point averages high enough to enter doctoral programs. This shortfall was compensated
for by increasing the targets for the master's programs.

The Fellowships and Training Component was generally satisfactory in terms of the quality
indicators established at appraisal (Annex 1, Table 8). It was highly satisfactory in terms of the
fellows (i) having maintained high grade point averages and (ii) having successfully found
employment in appropriate positions on their return (based on available evidence). The
component was also partially satisfactory and partially unsatisfactory in terms of the goal that
95% of the fellows would complete their degrees on time. Data from the OTO/ETCDP-
BAPPENAS component indicate that 97% of overseas Master's and 70% of overseas Ph.D.
candidates were able to complete their degrees in the allotted three and four years, respectively.
Data from the MOF component indicate that all of their fellows completed their degrees on time;
moreover, many chose universities which offered Master's degrees in shorter periods (one or two
years rather than three). Data from the BPPT component indicate that only 61% of the overseas
Ph.D. candidates and only 71% of the domestic Ph.D. candidates completed their degrees on
time. Of the Master's candidates, 95% of those who went overseas completed their courses on
time, but only 63% of those who remained in Indonesia did so. The BPPT component's Link
program (programs combining initial studies at a domestic university with completion of the



                                                 - 9 -

program at an overseas university) was more successful in this respect: 90% of the Ph.D.
candidates and 100% of the Master's candidates completed their courses on time. The
implementing agencies undertook a number of measures to ensure that time overruns were kept as
short as possible and that fellows had no financial rewards for prolonging their studies. The
targets for the overseas fellowship program for recent graduates of domestic bachelor's programs
were not achieved since the program was curtailed in 1996 when one of the project's objectives
was changed (para. 3.2). The funds released from this curtailment, however, were used
successfully to expand the other fellowship programs.

The improved utilization of civil-service returnees from domestic and overseas graduate
programs was satisfactory, based on available evidence, some of it impressionistic rather than
qualitative. Further conclusions may be drawn once all fellows have completed their programs
and once further research, particularly tracer studies, has been done on their placement,
utilization, performance, and contributions.

During the project period and continuing into the present, OTO/ETCDP provides some
fellowship services to public agencies (e.g., MOF and the Ministry of Education) and private
firms who wish, at their own expense, to send their employees to domestic institutions or overseas
for degree or non-degree training. OTO/ETCDP developed the selection procedure and offers
testing, for a fee, at a permanent center in Jakarta and at public universities in 26 provinces. In
the early years of the project, OTO/ETCDP selected about 2,000 candidates per year, mainly for
the purposes of their own project component. There are 7,000-10,000 test-takers per year in
recent years, mainly for Master's programs, particularly Master's of Business Administration
programs. In some provinces, OTO/ETCDP arranges testing at more than one university and has
recently begun offering testing at a few private universities. OTO/ETCDP also provides
information on the costs of training overseas, but it does not itself do placement or monitoring.
MOF and BPPT do not provide similar services, since OTO/ETCDP's services fill the need.

The completion of overseas studies by those students who had begun their programs under
PHRD I was concluded satisfactorily.

The National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET)
Component was satisfactory, in terms of overseeing and steering the project's government-
funded fellowship programs, although actual implementation was in the hands of the other three
agencies. Technical assistance was successfully contracted (i) to carry out annual technical audits
of project activities, (ii) to prepare implementation plans for the upcoming year, and (iii) to
prepare the Mid-Term Review. NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET also performed satisfactorily,
in general, in terms of monitoring the other three agencies' expenditures and in trying to
standardize their reporting on the project. NASTOT/ COTOFOPET/OFUTET's obligation to (a)
monitor the pilot fellowship program for recent graduates of domestic bachelor's programs and
(b) undertake studies and other preparation to develop a national merit-based fellowship scheme
was dropped in 1996 when one of the project's objectives was changed (para. 3.2). Although
NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET managed the project successfully, it did not develop broad
new guidelines for government fellowship programs, and it has not developed into the
Government's premier overseas fellowships agency.



                                                 - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No economic rate of return analysis was done for this project. As is the case with many education
and training projects, the costs are fairly easy to quantify and estimate, but the numerous benefits
are much more difficult to identify and quantify.

The costs include not only pre-departure training, tuition, and travel, but also the opportunity
costs (represented by the salaries the fellows continued to receive during their absences from
work to attend training). During the preparation and appraisal of the PHRD II project, the cost
estimates could easily be based on readily available information from the on-going PHRD I
project, although as has been noted (para. 5.4), the unit costs were over-estimated at appraisal.

The project resulted in substantial personal benefits for those who benefited from obtaining, at
mid-career, a Ph.D., a Master's degree, or job-related training, including increased likelihood of
promotions and salary increases. As has been noted (paras. 4.1, 5.5, and 6.1), the implementing
agencies took pains to ensure that these personal benefits accrued only to those individuals who
satisfied strict criteria.

There are also important social benefits which are more difficult to measure and which include (i)
both immediate and longer-term impacts on the agencies where the fellows work (some 32
different agencies for the BAPPENAS component alone, 6 for the MOF component, and 8 for the
BPPT component), (ii) the longer-term impact on the economy of a more efficient and
sophisticated performance of the government planning and budgeting functions, (iii) the
immediate and longer-term impacts on Indonesia's universities of having a greater number of
mid-career civil servants both as students and as part-time instructors, and (iv) the impact on
government agencies and private firms which avail themselves of OTO/ETCDP's services in
selecting candidates for in-service training, rather than having to rely on expensive expatriate
educational placement agencies. Quality indicators (Annex 1, Table 8) were developed at
appraisal and refined during project implementation in an attempt to gain a better understanding
of these multiple social benefits of the project. As can be seen from the annex table, only partial
information is presently available, and in most cases it is impossible to attribute the effects directly
or uniquely to the PHRD II project. The project implementing agencies, however, of which two
(BAPPENAS and MOF) are among the key core agencies, believe (a) that the acquisition of
increased knowledge and skills by civil servants is so crucial for continuing economic and social
development and (b) that the social benefits deriving from the project have been so great that they
had requested the World Bank to consider supporting a PHRD III project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The four implementing agencies were already in existence and functioning at a rather high level of
sophistication at the beginning of the project. All available evidence indicates that their
experience during project implementation improved and increased their ability to implement



                                                  - 11 -

fellowship schemes, particularly their ability to place, monitor, and evaluate overseas fellows on
their own.

The development of OTO/ETCDP's capacity to provide testing and selection services on a
nation- wide basis is a major positive outcome, in terms of institutional development.

The impact on the many agencies who sent fellows for training is also believed to have been
substantial, based on available evidence. The situation may become clearer, once all the fellows
have returned and once further tracers studies have been done.

The strict and transparent application of merit-based criteria in the selection of fellows under the
project represents a break with the past. Formerly, selection was based on seniority and, to an
extent, on gender, with males given precedence over females in a male-dominated bureaucracy.
Selection was often arbitrary and rarely transparent. This change in the way the project-
supported institutions do business represents a major positive institutional development.

The project's institutional development impact on domestic universities has been very important.
Many fellows who returned from overseas and re-entered the civil service are now teaching
part-time in second- and third-tier universities at the provincial and district level. They teach
courses not previously offered in these universities, such as economic planning, public policy,
finance, development planning, and development management. The main beneficiaries are
district-level civil servants, which is where the need for such training is greatest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The financial crisis of 1997 and the subsequent political turmoil in Indonesia were not foreseen at
the time of appraisal and were outside the control of both the government and the four
implementing agencies. The major effect on the project, however, was not negative but positive.
Tuition in domestic institutions increased, but not as much proportionally as the devaluation of the
Rupiah. This devaluation therefore meant that domestic programs became somewhat cheaper, in
dollar terms. More dollars were therefore available for both overseas and domestic programs.
Although targets were adjusted upwards twice, most of the savings were, in fact, canceled. The
project was thus successful in meeting and exceeding numerical targets for numbers of fellows,
but at substantially less cost.

The policies of overseas universities were outside the control of the Government and
implementing agencies. In particular, the unforeseen departure on sabbatical leave of professors
who were thesis advisors caused delays in the completion of several doctoral programs. Another
problem was that in a few cases, professors in overseas universities, lacking knowledge of
Indonesia's realities and needs, were reluctant to allow some fellows to pursue the thesis topics
they had identified. Each of these cases was eventually resolved in favor of the student.

Factors affecting the personal lives and desires of the fellows were also outside the control of the
Government and the implementing agencies. In retrospect, it is remarkable that (a) virtually all



                                                     - 12 -

the fellows completed their programs successfully and returned to Indonesia, and (b) virtually all
maintained a high grade point average. It was, however, difficult to reduce the time taken to
complete studies, both domestically and overseas, although the Government's firm measure of
cutting off support after established limits was effective in ensuring that fellows made every effort
to complete their programs on time. Pressures from their superiors in the civil service also
apparently played a role in ensuring that fellows completed their programs on time or soon
thereafter.

The growth of the Internet, a factor outside the control of the Government and the implementing
agencies, and unforeseen at project appraisal, substantially increased communications among all
the participants--the Government, the implementing agencies, the World Bank, and the
students--to the benefit of all. In particular, it had the positive impact of expanding the frequency
of communications between sponsoring institutions and fellows studying overseas and became an
important tool in timely monitoring of the academic progress of fellows.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government could have allowed the pilot program to provide overseas fellowships to recent
graduates of domestic bachelor's programs to proceed, permitting such graduates to enter the
private sector. If it had done so, it could also have prepared a general, national competitive
fellowship scheme taking the pilot program to scale. In retrospect it seems clear that the
Government, faced with large gaps in the skills mix of the civil service, never was enthusiastic
about using Government resources and Loan funds to send individuals who would find
employment in the private sector overseas for training. The Government decided to leave the
private sector to its own devices and in this aspect was more realistic and pragmatic than the
Bank, where most of the enthusiasm for a government-funded fellowship program to benefit the
private sector appears to have originated.

Following the financial crisis of 1997 and the ensuing drop in government revenues and budgetary
stringency, the Government could very well have argued that the project should be radically
curtailed or dropped altogether. In view of the facts that (i) a large number of civil servants were
already enrolled in fellowship programs, and (ii) the skills being acquired in the project-supported
programs were more urgently needed than ever, the Government continued to support the project
by providing the counterpart funds required.

There were several occasions where the Ministry of Finance was tardy in dealing with
replenishment requests. There were also misunderstandings on the use of the Special Account,
and misallocations between categories. These minor problems appear not to have had a major
impact on the generally satisfactory implementation of the project.

The implementing agencies (BAPPENAS, MOF, BPPT) had control over re-entry and placement
decisions within their own agencies, but they had no direct control over the re-entry and
placement decisions of all the other Ministries and agencies whose staff received training under
the project. The Bank raised this issue repeatedly, particularly following (i) the formation of the
new reform Government and (ii) the subsequent urgency given to decentralization and its
accompanying need for training at the provincial and district levels. The Government could have



                                                    - 13 -

given the three implementing agencies control over re-entry and placement decisions but
apparently decided that to do so would impinge on the autonomy of these other agencies in an
unwarranted fashion. The lack of such control does not appear to have seriously affected the
re-entry and appropriate placement of most returnees.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The period from the financial and political crises of 1997/98 to the end of the project was
characterized by frequent staff and leadership changes within each of the project implementing
agencies. The impact of these personnel changes on implementation performance was variable,
ranging from "significant" for STAID-BPPT to "negligible" for BPLK-MOF. STAID-BPPT
underwent four major personnel/leadership changes, which had a negative impact on institutional
memory and on project accounting. Even so, STAID and the other agencies were able to achieve
and surpass most of their project targets.

The implementing agencies had control over the study programs chosen, but it occasionally
happened that monitoring of study programs was not as close as desired. There were several
isolated cases where fellows pursued study programs different from those envisioned by their
sponsor agencies, and as a consequence, the needs of the beneficiary agencies were not
necessarily met. In some cases, returnees moved to another unit corresponding to their training
instead of meeting the need in their original unit, as foreseen.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total Project Cost. The total cost of the project is estimated to have been US$ 52.2 million as
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$ 95.0 million. The figures for the four implementing
agencies are as follows:

OTO/ETCDP-BAPPENAS:                       US$ 16.2 million, compared to US$ 30.8 million
BPLK-MOF:                                 US$ 13.5 million, compared to US$ 19.2 million
STAID-BPPT:                               US$ 22.3 million, compared to US$ 44.3 million
NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET: US$ 0.2 million, compared to US$ 0.7 million
Total:                                    US$ 52.2 million, compared to US$ 95.0 million

The first three implementing agencies reported the amounts of the Loan they had used, and the
total cost in each case has been calculated backwards, using the agreed disbursement percentage
for each component. NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET reported that it had no expenses for the
project. Although this agency must have incurred costs for staff time, materials, and other
operating expenses spent on the project, no separate records were kept of these costs, and they
must have been included in overall agency costs. The figure shown above, US$ 0.2 million, is an
estimate of the agency's likely expenditures on the project, most of which would have been
occasional staff time inputs.

Use of the World Bank Loan of US$69.0 million. During the economic crisis, the Government of
Indonesia was forced to manage its foreign exchange very carefully. When it became evident that
numerical targets would be met or exceeded at a much lower cost, the Government requested



                                                    - 14 -

three cancellations totaling US$ 12.0 million, leaving US$ 57.0 million. Towards the end of the
project, it was realized that there would be additional savings of $ 6.5 million, which would not be
required to complete the agreed fellowships programs, and this amount was also canceled, leaving
US$ 50.5 million (73% of the original loan). These cancellations did not affect the financing of
the original project components to be supported by the Bank, since substantial savings were
achieved due to (i) the dropping of the program for overseas fellowships for recent graduates of
domestic bachelor's programs, (ii) lower fellowship administration costs deriving in part from the
cancellation of contracts with EEOs, and (iii) lower-than-expected unit costs per fellow,
particularly the unit cost in dollar terms of fellows studying in domestic institutions after the
devaluation of the Rupiah, and also the unit costs for MOF fellows who completed applied
Master's programs in one or two years instead of three. In retrospect, however, it is clear that the
unit costs estimated by the Bank appraisal team were over-generous, based on data available on
the very best candidates who had gone previously to the top tier (and most expensive) of
international universities. A more sophisticated costing would have taken into account that some
fellows would be going to more modest institutions.

The amounts of the Loan used by the four implementing agencies are as follows:

OTO/ETCDP-BAPPENAS:                       US$ 14.3 million, compared to US$ 21.3 million
BPLK-MOF:                                 US$ 13.0 million, compared to US$ 15.2 million
STAID-BPPT:                               US$ 21.2 million, compared to US$ 32.2 million
NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET: US$ 0.0 million, compared to US$ 0.3 million
Total:                                    US$ 48.5 million, compared to US$ 69.0 million

As of the end of March 2002, US$ 48.1 million had been disbursed. Based on the figures
reported above by the implementing agencies, it was expected that another US$ 0.4 million would
be disbursed, for a total of US$ 48.5 million, but it now appears that the total remaining
undisbursed (US$ 2.4 million) will probably be canceled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project was, in fact, expected to conclude the Bank's support for the overseas training of civil
servants. All three implementing agencies report that it would be impossible to sustain a
fellowship program of the magnitude supported under the project with their own resources or
with funds from the Government's budget. The Government's highest priority for the education
and training sector at present, as reported by the implementing agencies, is basic education
(primary and lower secondary), which is seen to benefit the population at large, rather than
graduate-level fellowships, which benefit only a few. Moreover, although there are still gaps, the
general skill level of the staffs of the three agencies is significantly higher than it was at the
beginning of the project, and higher-level training is not seen as urgent as it was in 1993 and
1994. Finally, there is the problem of resources. Although every provincial and district
government agency is supposed to allocate 5% of its budget from self-generated income for
training, for the smaller agencies at these levels, this amount would be inadequate to fund even a
limited number of overseas graduate fellowships, and the agencies prefer to distribute their



                                                  - 15 -

training funds among a larger number of employees, for lower-level training. National
departments do not have any specific funds to use to send staff overseas.

Although a large fellowships program for civil servants is unlikely to continue unless further
outside resources are identified, several project outcomes are likely to be sustained. These
include (a) the careful and systematic selection of Government-funded fellowship recipients
according to objective criteria and transparent procedures; (b) the shift towards more use of
domestic universities for training of civil servants and less reliance on overseas fellowships; (c) the
ability to place and monitor overseas fellows with limited or no reliance on foreign consulting
firms (Educational Exchange Organizations).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Several ideas were discussed as to how a program of higher-level training for civil servants might
be continued. The Government has already initiated discussions with the Bank of a possible
PHRD III project, under which the Government's proportion of the financing plan would rise
from the 27% of the total project cost agreed for PHRD II to a higher percentage. Although
provinces and districts would not be able to fund fellowships themselves, they also might
contribute a part of the cost from their own revenues (under PHRD II, all counterpart funds came
from the national Ministry of Finance). Finally, the idea of student loan schemes was discussed
for overseas programs. Most Indonesian families cannot afford to send their children overseas for
further education and training, even when the children have the intellectual capacity. The
fluctuating exchange rate and undervalued Rupiah make it doubly difficult for private families to
send children overseas for study. Yet a student loan scheme, under which the Government would
finance the student's studies abroad in return for periodic payments thereafter, might work, as it
has in other developing countries. A student loan scheme, however, would be much more
difficult to implement with mid-career fellows, who might be reluctant to spend the rest of their
working lives paying back student loans. In short, there are at present no agreed arrangements
for continuing the PHRD II-sponsored massive fellowship program with Government funding in
the immediate future. The Government would need to seek other external funding to continue the
program if no further Bank funding is available, at least for the medium term. (The Government
noted that most bilateral funding for fellowships is tied. They were most appreciative of the
flexibility they enjoyed in choosing countries, institutions, and programs under the Bank-
sponsored PHRD projects.) The fact that the program will likely be unsustainable without further
external funding should not, however, be interpreted as a project failure, given the enormous
impact the project had on individuals, the agencies in which they returned to work, and these
agencies' impact on Indonesia's capacity to undertake solid development policy, manage
government finances better, and increasingly incorporate more sophisticated levels of science and
technology into its economy.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's efforts for this project previous to and during appraisal were carried out in
conjunction with supervision of the previous project (PHRD I). Much of the work in developing



                                                  - 16 -

PHRD II thus consisted of fine-tuning mechanisms and procedures already initiated in PHRD I,
and modifying the project design to take into account the lessons learned during the
implementation of PHRD I. The efforts of the Bank team at that time reflect careful attention to
detail and an effort to design a project which would indeed meet the rapidly changing manpower
needs of Indonesia's economic growth. Senior management comments prior to appraisal reflected
a desire to ensure (a) that selection criteria for fellowship recipients were strictly enforced, (b)
that returnees from fellowship programs be efficiently utilized, and (c) that the implementing
agencies be strengthened with technical assistance as appropriate to ensure both adequate project
implementation (in the shorter term) and institution-building (in the longer term). These concerns
were successfully addressed in the project design by the appraisal team. The Bank's efforts in
other areas, however, were ultimately less successful, notably the efforts (i) to expand the
program beyond the training of civil servants, and (ii) to provide overseas fellowship services to
public and private firms who intended to send their staff overseas at their own expense. Bank
staff mix and skills were appropriate during the preparation and appraisal periods. Overall, the
Bank's performance during the Lending period was satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The schedule developed at appraisal foresaw 11 supervision missions, two annually, beginning
with a project launch mission in March 1995, including full supervisions every September (the
September 1997 mission was to be the Mid-Term Review) and Annual Reviews every March (the
March 2000 mission was to be a final supervision and ICR preparation). With the extension of
the Closing Date, an additional 2 missions would have been required. In fact, there was no
project launch, and of a possible 13 biannual missions, the Bank completed 8. Actual mission
staffing was also less than foreseen, both in numbers and in profiles. In particular, most of the
activities to be supervised by a training specialist were in fact given to an operations officer, and
no economist (who might have assisted in developing quantitative measurements of the project's
impact on Indonesia's economy) supervised the project after the Mid-Term Review. Continuity in
task management was a problem, with five different Bank Task Managers during the
implementation period.

In the second half of the project period, the intensity of formal supervision missions diminished,
with only one supervision mission annually in 1999, 2000, and 2001. Several factors appear to
have played a role: (1) This period coincided with the East Asia and Pacific Region's decision to
decentralize many of its activities. For this project, formal supervision missions mounted from
Washington were replaced by informal (and frequent) contacts with Operations staff based in
Jakarta. There was at least one occurrence when it was not clear either in the Bank or in the
Government who in fact was responsible for providing No Objection Letters (NOLs).
Nevertheless, the new arrangement, with day-to-day supervision taking place from Jakarta and
periodic reviews organized with participation from Washington, appear to have worked rather
effectively. The available evidence demonstrates that the responsible staff in the Resident Mission
made valiant efforts to respond to the Borrower's requirements. (2) Many of the degree
fellowships programs were launched by the time of the Mid-Term Review, and it was a question
of waiting until they completed their programs. (The emphasis in supervision during this period
also changed: from a focus on the mechanics of getting the programs up and running to a focus
on the qualitative aspects such as the effective utilization of returnees.) (3) The period also



                                                   - 17 -

coincided with a significant drop in real terms in the Bank's budget for Operations, resulting in
underfunding of tasks and overstretching of Operations staff. The files indicate several occasions
of delays in providing NOLs; one of these occurred when one of the two staff members
responsible was in East Timor and the other in China. Given the constraints, the staff members
responsible apparently (correctly) decided that the PHRD II project was, in general, being
successfully implemented by the Government and therefore required less attention than other
projects for which they were also responsible and which had larger and more pressing problems.
Thus, although the Bank's supervision performance was mixed, on balance it was satisfactory.
(A review of the supervision of this project undertaken in July 1997 by the Bank's Quality
Assistance Group had rated Bank supervision satisfactory at that time.)

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of the comments listed above, the Bank's performance overall is judged to have been
satisfactory. The Bank's efforts during the preparation and appraisal period were thorough and
(for the most part) on the mark. The Bank's supervision effort benefited from the immediacy of
interactions with the Jakarta-based staff. The formal supervision missions, although less frequent
than planned, were intensive and thorough-going. The results obtained from these efforts
outweighed the occasional lapses in attention and delays in responding noted in the files and by
the implementing agencies.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower prepared the project during the same period it was implementing PHRD I. The
efforts it made to improve the performance of PHRD I also served as the design for the
improvements to be made under PHRD II. In particular, the Borrower prepared policies on civil
service fellowship training including selection, pre-departure training, placement, monitoring and
reporting criteria, allowances, and re-entry. Selection mechanisms and procedures by which
applicants would be directed to a domestic or an overseas graduate degree program were
fine-tuned, as were procedures for the placement of returnees. Action plans were developed for
(i) the development of an Overseas Training System, (ii) support for improving the capacity of
domestic universities, (iii) Link programs, (iv) policies for an overseas fellowship program for
recent graduates of domestic bachelor's programs, and (v) policies for cost reduction in training
management related to the use of EEOs (including a draft schedule of transfer of responsibilities).
Some of these documents, required prior to negotiations, were initially not acceptable to the Bank
and became dated covenants within the Loan Agreement. In summary, the Borrower preparation
effort was substantial and satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

"The Government" other than the four implementing agencies, which were themselves branches of
the Government, stayed for the most part out of the way, allowing the implementing agencies to
get on with their work, supplying counterpart funds as needed. The Government in the person of
the Minister of State for National Development planning issued a directive (para. 3.2 ) regarding
the placement of returnees under the program for recent graduates of domestic bachelor's
programs which effectively curtailed that project subcomponent. Following the financial crisis of



                                                 - 18 -

1998, the Government sought to reduce the commitment fees it was paying to the Bank under this
and other Loans, and about one eighth of the Loan amount (12%) was canceled. A further
cancellation of about 5% of the Loan took place in late 1999, and a further 9% in mid-2001. The
cancellations appear to have been made more for financial reasons that project-related ones,
although some care apparently was taken to ensure that commitments already made to students in
the middle of their programs would be honored. In 1999 and 2000, the emerging reform
Government was involved in the decision to extend the Loan Closing Date so that funds
remaining in the Loan could be used for high-priority short-term training needs required for
decentralization and economic recovery. Throughout the project implementation period, the
Ministry of Finance was often tardy in dealing with replenishment requests. Nevertheless, on
balance, the Government's implementation performance, to the extent it was involved, was
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the four implementing agencies (the three fellowship managing agencies plus
NASTOT/COTOFOPET/OFUTET) was, overall, satisfactory to highly satisfactory. The project
records demonstrate diligent efforts, for the most part, throughout the project implementation
period. There were a few isolated occasions when contract award took place before required
Bank prior approval had been sought, but for the most part, Bank guidelines and the covenants of
the Loan Agreement were respected. At some times during project implementation, one or more
of the agencies had problems demonstrating precisely the financial status of its subcomponent
(funds spent vs. funds committed vs. funds remaining). On the positive side, however, each of
the agencies developed and adhered to sound selection procedures that were successful in
identifying strong fellowship candidates. All three agencies took cognizance of the annual
technical audits and used them in preparing their plans for the ensuing year. (There was a
problem with the technical audits of STAID-BPPT and OTO/ETCDP-BAPPENAS during the
extension period of the project.) During the project implementation period, BPLK-MOF
successfully reduced its fellowship management costs by managing its own placement,
monitoring, and evaluation of fellows. OTO/ETCDP-BAPPENAS adopted similar self-
management procedures towards the end of the project. Towards the end of the project,
STAID-BPPT underwent several staff and leadership changes, which negatively affected the
agency's institutional memory and its ability to self-manage its fellows. Nevertheless, in spite of
some problems during the extension period, overall project implementation performance by the
three agencies was satisfactory, as demonstrated by the fact that Staff Appraisal Report targets for
the number of fellows and trainees to be supported by the three agencies were almost without
exception consistently met or exceeded, and available evidence indicates a high level of utilization
of graduates on their return to key Ministries and government units. NASTOT/COTOFOPET/
OFUTET's performance during the project period was also satisfactory, as evidenced by its
successful efforts to formulate policy and coordinate fellowship procedures across the other three
agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance was, on balance, satisfactory.




                                                - 19 -

8. Lessons Learned

Of the lessons learned, the first group are generic lessons learned from this project which are also
applicable to other Bank projects in Indonesia. The second group are lessons learned specific to
this project.

Generic Lessons Learned

First, Bank attempts to introduce innovations at a late stage in project development are unlikely
to be successful. At the time of appraisal, the Bank attempted to broaden the scope of the project
so that it would cater not only to the training needs of the public sector but also those of the
private sector. The context within the Bank was the "rediscovery" of the private sector following
major shifts in the policies of several of the Bank's major shareholders and in the world at large
(the fall of the East Bloc). Whereas a fellowships program benefiting the private sector may have
seemed attractive within the Bank, within Indonesia, the Government correctly recognized that
neither its public sector nor its private sector were yet as sophisticated and fine-tuned as those of
the Bank's major shareholders, and correctly perceived that its civil service still required
substantial upgrading and deepening and that the resources of the project would probably be
unlikely to meet all the needs of the public sector, let alone the private sector. Although the
Government apparently agreed to broaden the scope of the project during appraisal and
negotiations, it rather quickly curtailed the components designed to benefit the private sector early
on during project implementation. The effort to increase the participation of women was also
introduced very late in the project development period and was successful more by chance than
through conscious intent.

Second, Bank attempts to increase efficiency during the project implementation period may have
been counterproductive. Budgets for Operations were decreased as the work program increased.
Staff responded with increased efforts but the final result was unsustainable stress and reductions
in the frequency and quality of supervision efforts. Upper management within the World Bank
has apparently now recognized this problem and is making attempts to provide resources
adequate to the tasks in the work program.

Third, continuity of staff on both sides is important for successful implementation, institutional
memory, and avoidance of problems. This lesson has been learned many times in Bank-supported
projects, but in practice it is very difficult to implement.

Fourth, the fact that massive externally financed fellowship programs may not be able to continue
with domestic financing, once a particular project or loan comes to an end, should not obscure the
fact that substantial benefits incur to a government, an economy, and a country from such
training. Put another way, the fact that such programs are not sustainable without external
assistance should not be used as an argument that they should not be undertaken at all.

Project-Specific Lessons Learned

First, Indonesia is quite capable of developing and enforcing strict selection criteria for the
awarding of fellowships. This issue should be less of a concern in any future such project.



                                                   - 20 -

Second, Indonesia has had remarkable success in ensuring that fellows studying abroad return
home and find positions appropriate for their training. The overwhelming reasons appear to be
cultural: Indonesian students are virtually unanimous in choosing to spend their lives at home
rather than in the countries in which they studied. Bonding requirements may also play a role, but
instead of being seen as a constraint on one's options, most fellows and trainees probably viewed
them as a guarantee of obtaining a prestigious and well-remunerated position in one's own
country. As Indonesia becomes increasingly linked in the world economy and as transportation
and communications continue to improve, Indonesia may become somewhat less successful in
ensuring that all its overseas fellows return home. This trend, however, will probably also be
accompanied by a reduction in government financing in overseas fellows and an accompanying
increase in private sponsorship of fellows, either by firms, agencies, or individuals and their
families.

Third, it is probably unrealistic to expect Ph.D. candidates to complete their programs in three
years, even though the candidates are among the brightest and most motivated that Indonesia has
to offer. This time period is often not respected by, e.g., American students studying in their
home country in their mother tongue. Any future project may need to examine the trade-off
between (i) reasonable standards of efficiency and (ii) an optimal learning experience.

Fourth, the implementing agencies were able progressively to take over the tasks of placement,
monitoring, and evaluation of overseas fellows, reducing their fellowship management costs and
their dependence on overseas agencies. The unforeseen growth in the second half of the 1990s in
the use of the Internet contributed to this development. Control over placement allowed the three
implementing agencies to ensure that the universities and programs chosen corresponded to their
needs. Other implementing agencies within Indonesia might benefit from this experience.

Fifth, applied Master's programs, whether overseas or domestic, may be more appropriate for
mid-career civil servants returning to their agencies than are Ph.D. programs (where the focus is
often more on research and teaching at the university level).

Sixth, domestic institutions are increasingly able to train the high-quality and sophisticated
manpower needed for Indonesia's continued economic growth and development, although there
will continue to be a reliance on overseas institutions for some highly technical areas.

Seventh, Link programs, combining initial studies at a domestic university with completion of a
program at an overseas university, were particularly valuable, being cheaper than programs
offered completely overseas and thus enabling Indonesia to send more people overseas for at least
part of their program. Link programs also allowed the implementing agencies to tailor the study
programs more carefully to their needs.

Eighth, the arrangements for project implementation, involving three separate implementing
agencies, may have been unwieldy, but the fact that each agency had a critical stake in the success
of its component meant that implementation in general was efficient. There were some difficulties
in compatibility of data, but these had largely been overcome by the end of the project.



                                                 - 21 -

Ninth, especially close monitoring of selection and departure deadlines is necessary if fellowship
programs are to be completed within the period funding is available.

Tenth, Indonesia's former policy of requiring that students in secondary school study English
resulted in an unintended bias in the placement of fellows overseas. By far the majority went to
English-speaking countries, particularly the United States. Even fellows going to countries such
as France, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Japan studied in English-only courses. While a certain
unanimity of outlook and perspective may have been achieved, Indonesia may have lost some of
the benefits a greater diversity of study institutions and countries might have provided.

Eleventh, Bank supervision could have benefited from including (a) a training specialist and (b) an
economist more frequently in the supervision effort. The training specialist would have been
expected to look more closely at a sample of the content of training courses being offered; the
economist would have been expected to assist in developing, early in the project implementation
period, more sophisticated measures of the impact of the returnees on Indonesia's economy (i.e.,
devising mechanisms to measure to what extent the project had succeeded, in quantitative terms,
in "fostering economic development and industrialization and facilitating policies of deregulation
and decentralization").

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

From OTO/ETCDP-BAPPENAS:

In general, the PHRD II Project (Loan 3825-IND) was successfully completed in terms of the
World Bank's support to ETCDP-BAPPENAS. Both parties worked together to achieve the
project's objectives: the Bank agreed to an increase in the number of domestic Master's degree
participants and to the implementation of a new non-degree domestic program, i.e., Public Policy
Technique and Management.

The selection, preparation, and placement systems established by ETCDP-BAPPENAS have
proved to be a success in supporting the training programs. The aptitude test (Tes Potensi
Akademik), which was first developed in 1985 when ETCDP-BAPPENAS carried out a
USAID-funded program, has become one of the best measurements for recruiting potential
candidates and is now being used by various institutions not only for training but also for
recruitment and promotion purposes.

It is important that key personnel in the project implementing agency be maintained from the
beginning to the end of the project, to guarantee the sustainability of the project. It would be hard
for a new person to be responsible for continuing the project without any information from the
previous person in charge.

The Bank's idea of having the implementing agencies take over the management in placing
participants in overseas training programs [instead of contracting it out, as was done in the PHRD
I Project] was a big challenge for ETCDP-BAPPENAS. The delayed implementation of the


                                                  - 22 -

overseas short-term training in Commercial Law was caused not only by the lack of experience of
ETCDP-BAPPENAS in following the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) system but also in
getting a response from certain countries which were unfamiliar with the system. Fortunately, the
Bank approved ETCDP-BAPPENAS' request to conduct the training program only in a country
which was familiar with this system.

In monitoring participants in overseas training programs, the idea of self-management [instead of
contracting out] increased ETCDP-BAPPENAS' capacity, especially in terms of its ability to
establish a monitoring system.

Due to the limited numbers of fellows who could study overseas, ETCDP-BAPPENAS provided
the opportunity for fellows to participate in in-country training programs. This policy was
implemented not only to accommodate the high demand for training within the country and to
reduce costs but also to stimulate other domestic public universities to improve the quality of their
programs. In fact, it encouraged some national public universities to open new programs in
development planning, development management, and public policy.

With regard to the matters discussed above, it is expected that the Bank will be informed about
the positive impacts of the project and therefore will continue to support a new Professional
Human Resources Development Project in the future.

Learning from the PHRD II Project, ETCDP-BAPPENAS suggests that the PHRD III Project
include more related components in the project, increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the
human resources in the entire state apparatus, higher education, and regional development
sectors.

From BPLK-MOF:

The BPLK-MOF component included funding for overseas degrees, domestic degrees, and
on-degree training to enhance the government's ability to pursue advanced development
management. There is a need to develop the MOF with the primary objective of getting
better-quality MOF personnel. After completing their studies, some of the returnees, as
well-educated officers, were given greater responsibilities. Some of them have been promoted,
and some now hold key positions.

As the lending institution, the Bank supervised BPLK/MOF's activities in order to follow its
compliance with the Loan Agreement and the Staff Appraisal Report. Bank supervision teams
included an economist and a training specialist who visited each component every year to discuss
any problems.

The Borrower prepared each activity by preparing a plan. The Borrower's rate of success
depended on the efforts to complete the planned activity. The Borrower optimally utilized the
Loan proceeds according to the Loan Agreement, the Staff Appraisal Report, and various
government rules.




                                                 - 23 -

The PHRD II Project needed interaction with IBRD to prepare progress reports, make contracts,
and supervise project implementation. Good communications and a good relationship with the
Bank enabled the project to be implemented successfully. IBRD was pro-active in answering the
letters sent by the PHRD II Project's implementing agencies, although the answers came a little
bit later than expected. When there was a mistake in running the project, the Bank immediately
admonished the project implementing agencies. The good synergy developed between the PHRD
II Project's implementing agencies needs to be continued and increased.

In achieving the project's objectives, the implementing agencies followed several common
procedures for recruitment of candidates and requirements for selection. In addition, the MOF
subcomponent had specific selection standards including a score on the Academic Potential Test
(TPA) of at least 600, a score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) of at least
450, and a score on the psychological testing (psychotest) of at least B or A. The results of these
standards were that only 1.5% of the candidates who applied were selected. After initial
selection, they needed to score at least 530 on the TOEFL to study overseas.

What we have been observing so far is that over half of the returnees have been promoted to
higher positions: 144 (48%) of the returnees have been promoted from staff positions to Echelon
IV managers, 13 (6%) from Echelon IV to Echelon III managers, and 3 (1%) to Echelon II
managers. Most of them have also participated in special committees or teams that optimally use
the knowledge and skills gained from their studies. The programs implemented under the project
must be continued in order to enhance the capability of government officials, especially officials of
the Ministry of Finance. However, in the current crisis conditions, it is very hard to send students
overseas with financing from the state budget. Moreover, given that the cost ratio between
overseas programs and in-country programs is so great (14:1), and given that the IBRD Loan for
the project has closed, the implementing agencies hope that the relationship with IBRD can be
continued by releasing a new loan for this project.

From BPPT-STAID:

In general, the objectives of the BPPT-STAID component were reached, especially in terms of the
increasing number of researchers with higher qualifications (those with Bachelor's degrees
upgraded to Master's, and those with Master's upgraded to Ph.D.'s). But in terms of the impact
of the research results and the careers of the returnees, special studies were needed. Tracer
studies were conducted in 1993, 1995, 1997, and 2001 (none was conducted in 1999). In
general, the returnees who graduated from institutions overseas did better in terms of their
careers. Many of them now hold strategic positions in their respective institutions, and in addition
to their direct outputs, they contribute to the development of their institutions through networking
both domestically and abroad.

Economic conditions in Indonesia have a direct impact on the financing of research. Recently, the
amount of research being done has declined, which means that many researchers do not have
funding to do research full-time. One solution to this problem is for researchers to work part-time
in the private sector or to give lectures in institutions of higher education. But these are only
temporary solutions. Unless the funding problem is resolved, the involved institutions will not be



                                                   - 24 -

able to use their respective returnees efficiently. To solve this problem institutionally, it would be
better to send the researchers to selected provinces as consultants or as people who develop
research agencies in the provinces to strengthen local development. Since the policy of increased
provincial autonomy is now being implemented, this proposed solution is a valid plan for action.

To develop local research agencies, the provinces and districts need to recruit qualified candidates
who will later work as researchers. To develop into good researchers, the candidates should get a
better education, so that later they can be partners of researchers from established institutions
such as BPPT, LIPI (the Indonesian Institute of Sciences) etc. This is a reciprocal concept
between the local and the established research agencies. Researchers from established research
agencies can be utilized more efficiently, and the local people can do better research. Thus the
World Bank Loan over the last 5 to 7 years can be used efficiently through the returnees.

Provinces and districts which give high priority to the development of human resources in the
various sectors need to give priority to the education of their own staff. Unfortunately, not all of
the provinces and districts can award fellowships to enhance their own staffs' education. So the
World Bank Loan still plays an important role in giving opportunities to local people to enhance
their education in accordance with local needs. Some provinces and districts might give
scholarships to their people, but most of them still give priority to economic development to
enhance local autonomy.

There are several things which were beneficial to STAID as an implementing agency, as well as
for the other agencies whose staff received funding under the STAID component. First, the
World Bank Loan was sufficient to enable candidates to obtain degrees.

There were also several problem areas. Based on the experience, especially for STAID fellows
studying in the United States, the time allowed to finish their studies was not sufficient. We
suggest that in the future the time allowed for the Master's program be at least three years
(instead of two) and for the Ph.D. program be four years (instead of three).

Secondly, the time provided to finish project activities before the Closing Date was not long
enough for some fellows to complete their studies, either by themselves or with funding from
elsewhere, because the World Bank did not give a time extension.

Thirdly, the World Bank's procedures are so rigid that it was not easy for STAID to get quick
decisions, especially regarding the use of the Loan, although they were agreed upon in the Loan
Agreement. The World Bank's representative in Jakarta often could not make quick decisions
because he had to wait for the decisions to be made by the World Bank in Washington. In
seeking approval from the World Bank to carry out the program, it would be better than the
World Bank representative in Jakarta be given authority to make decisions, as stated in the Loan
Agreement.

Fourthly, to carry out programs which are already agreed upon in the Loan Agreement, it should
not be necessary to seek a No Objection Letter (NOL) for every activity. The World Bank should
give a clear funding limit regarding those training activities which require a NOL and those which



                                                 - 25 -

do not.

Fifthly, it was hard to carry out the domestic non-degree training programs, even though we
know that currently the management training is badly needed. We suggest that the World Bank
give priority to this kind of training, since the training providers in Indonesia are of sufficient
number and internationally qualified. Of course the number of training participants will be limited
in accordance with the targets of the respective institutions. Leadership training programs for the
head and the head-to-be of the involved institutions is also important.

In general, though, the impact of the returnees, representing employees of six government
research agencies, was always good and positive, both for the individual returnees as well as for
the institutions, especially with regard to the productivity within each of the respective
institutions. Other factors, however, such as salary levels, work facilities, positions, research
funding, and managerial bureaucracy are still not very conducive as motivating factors, so the
project's impact on staff productivity was not quite as high as expected in the objectives of the
program. In addition, since Indonesia is still experiencing the continuing Krismon (crisis), it is
still not attractive to domestic and foreign investors. This has a great impact on the Indonesian
economy as a whole, particularly on its industries. The results of these working conditions and
the crisis situation have a bearing on the returnees' job satisfaction and logically can affect their
work productivity, thereby lowering the productivity of their respective institutions. We assume
that these conditions and the crisis situation are temporary. This means that the impact of
returnees on their agencies' productivity is directly and most affected by external factors,
especially the political, economic, and social factors obtaining in Indonesia today. The negative
impact on personal and agency productivity of the working conditions and crisis situation is not
unique to the returnees of the PHRD II project but in fact is shared by most of the people in
Indonesia who have benefited from special education and training opportunities. In conclusion, in
terms of the STAID program's internal efficiency (input, process, output), it has significantly
increased, but on the other hand, the STAID programs external efficiency is still rather low. This
will continue as long as the Krismon and the accompanying political, economic and social unrest
continues.

(b) Cofinanciers:

None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

             Table 1: Targets for the Fellowships and Training Component
                                at Project Inception (December 1994)


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       15                   92                    50                157
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                   49                1,085               1,134
Link Programs*                                              0                   10                     0                 10
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                15                  151                1,135               1,301
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   30                     0                 30
Total                                                      15                  181                1,135               1,331


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       15                  105                    60                180
Domestic Fellowships                                       15                   50                    75                140
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                30                  155                  135                 320
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   30                     0                 30
Total                                                      30                  185                  135                 350


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       55                   75                    50                180
Domestic Fellowships                                       40                   90                    50                180
Link Programs*                                             10                   51                     0                 61
Subtotal for Civil Servants                              105                   216                  100                 421
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   30                     0                 30
Total                                                    105                   246                  100                 451


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       85                  272                  160                 517
Domestic Fellowships                                       55                  189                1,210               1,454
Link Programs*                                             10                   61                     0                 71
Subtotal for Civil Servants                              150                   522                1,370               2,042
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   90                     0                 90
Total                                                    150                   612                1,370               2,132


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 27 -

             Table 2: Targets for the Fellowships and Training Component
                                  at Mid-Term Review (March 1998)


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       26                   92                    50                168
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                   49                2,320               2,369
Link Programs*                                              0                    0                     0                  0
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                26                  141                2,370               2,537
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   26                     0                 26
Total                                                      26                  167                2,370               2,563


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                        5                  163                    60                228
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                   50                    75                125
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                 5                  213                  135                 353
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   12                     0                 12
Total                                                       5                  225                  135                 365


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       55                  126                    50                231
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                   93                    50                150
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                72                  271                  100                 443
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                    8                     0                  8
Total                                                      72                  279                  100                 451


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       86                  381                  160                 627
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                  192                2,445               2,644
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                              103                   625                2,605               3,333
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   46                     0                 46
Total                                                    103                   671                2,605               3,379


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 28 -

             Table 3: Targets for the Fellowships and Training Component
                           at Time of First Extension (September 2000)


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       23                   91                    50                164
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                  149                1,660               1,809
Link Programs*                                              0                    0                     0                  0
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                23                  240                1,710               1,973
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   26                     0                 26
Total                                                      23                  266                1,710               1,999


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                        5                  145                    60                210
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                   50                    75                125
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                 5                  195                  135                 335
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   12                     0                 12
Total                                                       5                  207                  135                 347


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       55                  126                    50                231
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                   93                    50                150
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                72                  271                  100                 443
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                    8                     0                  8
Total                                                      72                  279                  100                 451


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       83                  362                  160                 605
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                  292                1,785               2,084
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                              100                   706                1,945               2,751
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   46                     0                 46
Total                                                    100                   752                1,945               2,797


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 29 -

                   Table 4: Achievements of the Fellowships and Training
                       Component at Project Completion (October 2001)


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       23                   91                    40                154
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                  140                1,426               1,566
Link Programs*                                              0                    0                     0                  0
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                23                  231                1,466               1,720
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   26                     0                 26
Total                                                      23                  257                1,466               1,746


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                        6                  188                     6                200
Domestic Fellowships                                        0                   50                    54                104
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                 6                  238                    60                304
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   12                     0                 12
Total                                                       6                  250                    60                316


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       55                  126                    50                231
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                   93                    50                150
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                                72                  271                  100                 443
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                    8                     0                  8
Total                                                      72                  279                  100                 451


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                       84                  405                    96                585
Domestic Fellowships                                        7                  283                1,530               1,820
Link Programs*                                             10                   52                     0                 62
Subtotal for Civil Servants                              101                   740                1,626               2,467
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                            0                   46                     0                 46
Total                                                    101                   786                1,626               2,513


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 30 -

                   Table 5: Achievements of the Fellowships and Training
                       Component at Project Completion (October 2001)
                           as Percentage of Targets at Project Inception

BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   153%                   99%                  80%                 98%
Domestic Fellowships                                                         286%                 131%                138%
Link Programs*                                                                 0%                                       0%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            153%                  153%                 129%                132%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                              87%                                      87%
Total                                                  153%                  142%                 129%                131%


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                    40%                  179%                  10%                111%
Domestic Fellowships                                     0%                  100%                  72%                 74%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                             20%                  154%                  44%                 95%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                              40%                                      40%
Total                                                   20%                  135%                  44%                 90%


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   100%                  168%                 100%                128%
Domestic Fellowships                                    18%                  103%                 100%                 83%
Link Programs*                                         100%                  102%                                     102%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                             69%                  125%                 100%                105%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                              27%                                      27%
Total                                                   69%                  113%                 100%                100%


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                    99%                  149%                  60%                113%
Domestic Fellowships                                    13%                  150%                 126%                125%
Link Programs*                                         100%                   85%                                      87%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                             67%                  142%                 119%                121%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                              51%                                      51%
Total                                                   67%                  128%                 119%                118%


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 31 -

                   Table 6: Achievements of the Fellowships and Training
                       Component at Project Completion (October 2001)
                           as Percentage of Targets at Mid-Term Review


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                    88%                   99%                  80%                 92%
Domestic Fellowships                                                         286%                  61%                 66%
Link Programs*
Subtotal for Civil Servants                             88%                  164%                  62%                 68%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                   88%                  154%                  62%                 68%


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   120%                  115%                  10%                 88%
Domestic Fellowships                                                         100%                  72%                 83%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            120%                  112%                  44%                 86%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  120%                  111%                  44%                 87%


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Domestic Fellowships                                   100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Link Programs*                                         100%                  100%                                     100%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  100%                  100%                 100%                100%


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                    98%                  106%                  60%                 93%
Domestic Fellowships                                   100%                  147%                  63%                 69%
Link Programs*                                         100%                  100%                                     100%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                             98%                  118%                  62%                 74%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                   98%                  117%                  62%                 74%


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 32 -

                   Table 7: Achievements of the Fellowships and Training
                       Component at Project Completion (October 2001)
                       as Percentage of Targets at Time of First Extension


BAPPENAS Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   100%                  100%                  80%                 94%
Domestic Fellowships                                                          94%                  86%                 87%
Link Programs*
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            100%                   96%                  86%                 87%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  100%                   97%                  86%                 87%


MOF Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   120%                  130%                  10%                 95%
Domestic Fellowships                                                         100%                  72%                 83%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            120%                  122%                  44%                 91%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  120%                  121%                  44%                 91%


BPPT Subcomponent
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Domestic Fellowships                                   100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Link Programs*                                         100%                  100%                                     100%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            100%                  100%                 100%                100%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  100%                  100%                 100%                100%


Fellowships and Training Component (totals)
                                               Doctoral             Master's            Non-Degree              Total
Civil Servants
Overseas Fellowships                                   101%                  112%                  60%                 97%
Domestic Fellowships                                   100%                   97%                  86%                 87%
Link Programs*                                         100%                  100%                                     100%
Subtotal for Civil Servants                            101%                  105%                  84%                 90%
Private Sector
Recent Graduates                                                             100%                                     100%
Total                                                  101%                  105%                  84%                 90%


* Link Programs include the first part of the program in a domestic university and the completion of the program at an
  overseas university.




                                                                    - 33 -

                                              Table 8: Quality Indicators

                       Indicator*                 Projected in Last PSR **                       Actual/Latest Estimate

Fellowships and Training (OTO, MOF, & STAID)

(1) 95% of fellows complete studies on time    MOF: 98% on time                       Candidates completing on time:
                                                                                      OTO:   Ph.D. candidates: 70%
                                                                                            Master's candidates: 97%
                                                                                      MOF:   Master's candidates: 96%
                                                                                      STAID: Overseas Ph.D. candidates: 61%
                                                                                            Domestic Ph.D. candidates: 71%
                                                                                            Link Ph.D. candidates: 90%
                                                                                            Overseas Master's candidates: 95%
                                                                                            Domestic Master's candidates: 63%
                                                                                            Link Master's candidates: 100%
                                                                                            Overseas Master's candidates who
                                                                                              were recent graduates: 100%
                                                                                             Overseas non-degree trng.: 100%
                                                                                            Domestic non-degree trng.: 71%


(2) average GPA >3.0 (4-point scale)           MOF: 100% have a GPA of >3.0           OTO:   Overseas Master's candidates: 3.41
                                                                                            Domestic Master's candidates: 3.20
                                                                                      MOF:   100% >3.0
                                                                                      STAID: 100% >3.0


(3) reduced reliance on EEOs in                MOF: increased institutional capacity  OTO:   No reliance on EEOs since Nov.
    placement and monitoring, as                   increased cost effectiveness              1999; own system developed to
    evidenced by increased institutional                                                    monitor overseas fellows.
    capacity and a lower percentage of                                                MOF:   No further reliance on EEOs; uses
    fellowship cost spent on EEOs                                                           internet to monitor overseas fellows.
                                                                                      STAID: No reliance on EEOs since 1996;
                                                                                            some difficulties with monitoring
                                                                                            1998-2000.


Utilization of Returnees (OTO, MOF, & STAID)

(1) >95% of returnees posted to job in own     MOF: job posting as they return        OTO:   40% of alumni of overseas programs
   field before returning                                                                    posted to higher-level posts,
                                                                                            49% returned to same post
(2) >90% of returnees make productive          MOF: medium use of new skills                Degree of job effectiveness:
    use of new knowledge                                                                    Alumni of overseas programs:
                                                                                            22% "very effective"
                                                                                            53% "effective"
                                                                                            Alumni of domestic programs:
                                                                                            13% "very effective"
                                                                                            46% "effective"
                                                                                            19% "average"
                                                                                      MOF:   returnees promoted to higher-level
                                                                                            posts after 1-3 years




                                                      - 34 -

                                                                                              STAID: 76% of alumni of overseas programs
                                                                                                       placed in posts appropriate to their
                                                                                                       expertise;
                                                                                                       87% of alumni of domestic programs
                                                                                                       placed in posts appropriate to their
                                                                                                       expertise


Research & Development (STAID)

(1) >20% increase in competitive research funding                                             no. of research grants increased from 14 in
                                                                                              1997 to 40 in 2000, then dropped to 37 in 2001
                                                                                              (64% increase in 4 years)


(2) >20% increase in no. of patents in Indonesia                                              no. of patents granted increased from 2 in 1997
   and internationally                                                                        to 11 in 2000, then dropped to 7 in 2001
                                                                                              (250% increase in 4 years)


(3) >20% increase in international research                                                   no. of articles published increased from 0 in
   publications                                                                               1997 to 2 in 2001


(4) >20% increase in domestic research                                                        no. of articles published increased from 2 in
     publications                                                                             1997 to 24 in 2000, then dropped to 9 in 2001


Transfer of Knowledge (OTO & MOF)

(1) >90% of returnees conduct seminars                  MOF: all returnees conduct a seminar  OTO: 47% of returnees reported efforts to
    for peers on return                                                                              share new knowledge with peers in
                                                                                                     their agencies; 17% made attempts in
                                                                                                     other agencies.
                                                                                              MOF: some returnees hold seminar


(2) >10 new courses are introduced                      MOF: increase in new courses          OTO: some alumni of overseas programs
     annually in universities                                                                        known to be lecturers in domestic
                                                                                                     universities
                                                                                              MOF: some returnees teach in private and
                                                                                                     public universities


(3) increase in no. of presentations to private sector  MOF: increase                         OTO: recognition by NGOs that performance
                                                                                                     of alumni definitely increased (15%)
                                                                                                     or somewhat increased (30%)
                                                                                              MOF: a few returnees contribute their know-
                                                                                                     ledge to the private sector
(4) increase in no. of presentations to public sector   MOF: increase                         OTO: recognition by supervisors that perfor-
                                                                                                    mance of alumni definitely increased
                                                                                                    (48%) or increased somewhat (38%)
                                                                                              MOF: most returnees work for public sector




                                                               - 35 -

Transfer of Knowledge (STAID)

(1) >20% increase in projects with private industry                                                     instances of consulting with agencies other


(2) >20% increase in projects with public enterprises                                                   than their own increased from 10 in 1997 to
(3) increase in projects with universities                                                              19 in 2000, then dropped to 18 in 2001
(4) increase in no. of projects with other public-                                                      (80% increase in 4 years)
   sector agencies


(5) increase in no. of articles targeted to industry                                                    no data


(6) increase in training of industry staff                                                              instances of alumni giving lectures in agencies
(7) increase in training of public-sector staff                                                         other than their own increased from 8 in 1997
                                                                                                        to 32 in 2000, then dropped to 20 in 2001
                                                                                                        (150% increase in 4 years)


(8) increase in no. of courses taught at universities                                                   no data




(9) increase in research presentations in-country                                                       no particular pattern; in period 1997-2001, no.
                                                                                                        varied between 16 (1999) and 34 (2000)


(10) increase in no. of research presentations                                                          abrupt increase from 1 in 1997 to 8 in 1998,
     overseas                                                                                           then decline back to 1 in 2001


(11) increase in academic work in professional                                                          no data
   societies


 * Most of these indicators (from Annex 8 of the Staff Appraisal Report) did not include explicit quantitative values, which apparently were
   added in 1996, when specific project performance indicators were developed for most on-going Bank-assisted projects.
** The indicators were not updated regularly during supervision missions. The information shown is as of the Mid-Term Review (April 1998).




                                                                   - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
                Project Cost By Component                    US$ million      US$ million

OTO                                                             27.60               16.20                 92
MOF                                                             17.20               13.51                 79
STAID                                                           39.60               22.29                 56
NASTOT                                                            0.60               0.20                 33

Total Baseline Cost                                             85.00               52.20
 Physical Contingencies                                           4.20
 Price Contingencies                                              5.80
                           Total Project Costs                  95.00
                     Total Financing Required                   95.00               52.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                   2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                              0.00           0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00           0.00             0.00            0.20            0.20
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00           0.00             3.00            0.00            3.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.40)          (0.00)           (2.40)
4. Training                           0.00           0.00             73.30           9.60            82.90
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (66.60)          (0.00)          (66.60)
5. Project Management                 0.00           0.00             0.00            8.90            8.90
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                             0.00           0.00             76.30          18.70            95.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (69.00)          (0.00)          (69.00)
"Other" includes selection of fellows using Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank,
and selection of consultants and Educational Exchange Organizations following Bank guidelines.
"Non Bank Financed" includes Government of Indonesia financing of equipment, furniture, and materials,
fellows' salaries, and project management costs.




                                                  - 37 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          1
                                                             Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                  ICB                 NCB                       2             N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                     Other
   1. Works                                   0.00                0.00                 0.00                 0.00           0.00
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)
   2. Goods                                   0.00                0.00                 0.00                 0.00           0.00
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)
   3. Services                                0.00                0.00                 3.24                 0.00           3.24
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)               (2.88)              (0.00)          (2.88)
   4. Training                                0.00                0.00                48.79                 0.00          48.79
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)              (45.64)              (0.00)          (45.64)
   5. Project Management                      0.00                0.00                 0.00                 0.20           0.20
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)
       Total                                  0.00                0.00                52.03                 0.20          52.23
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)              (48.52)              (0.00)          (48.52)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank          Govt.        CoF.           Bank           Govt.         CoF.        Bank  Govt.   CoF.
Equipment, Furniture, and       0.00          0.20         0.00           0.00           0.02          0.00        0.0    10.0    0.0
Materials
Staff Training &
Development:
*Overseas Fellowships &        51.60          0.00         0.00           41.33          0.00          0.00        80.1   0.0     0.0
Training
*Domestic Fellowships &         4.00          4.10         0.00           2.75           2.75          0.00        68.8   67.1    0.0
Training
*Pre-departure Training &       3.90          0.90         0.00           1.56           0.39          0.00        40.0   43.3    0.0
Expenses
*Fellowship Management          3.10          0.00         0.00           1.89           0.00          0.00        61.0   0.0     0.0
Costs
*Fellows' Salaries                            9.10         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00               0.0     0.0
*Link Program                   1.30          1.30         0.00           0.15           0.15          0.00        11.5   11.5    0.0
Development
Consultants' Services           0.90          0.30         0.00           0.52           0.13          0.00        57.8   43.3    0.0
Research & Studies              1.30          0.30         0.00           0.32           0.08          0.00        24.6   26.7    0.0
Project Management              0.00          8.50         0.00           0.00           0.18          0.00        0.0    2.1     0.0
Unallocated                     2.90          1.30         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00        0.0    0.0     0.0
Total                          69.00          26.00        0.00           48.52          3.71          0.00        70.3   14.3    0.0

  Government expenditures on (a) equipment, furniture, and materials, and (b) project management are estimates. The
  Government paid fellows' salaries, but separate records were not kept, so the figure shown in this table is zero.



                                                              - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                     - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year      Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1994                   3    Economists (2), Operations
                                                   Officer
              April 1994                      4    Economists (2), Training
                                                   Specialist, Project Assistant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June/July 1994                  5    Economists (2), Training
                                                   Specialist, Science/Research
                                                   & Development Specialist,
                                                   Project Assistant

 Supervision
              November 1995                   2    Economist, Operations                 S               S
                                                   Officer
              April 1996                      2    Economist, Operations Officer         S               S
              April 1997                      2    Economist, Operations Officer         S               S
              December 1997                   2    Economist, Operations Officer         S               S
              March 1998                      3    Education Specialist, Education       S               S
                                                   Policy Specialist, Operations
                                                   Officer
              December 1998                   2    Operations Officers (2)               S               S
              February 2000                   2    Education Specialist, Operations      S               S
                                                   Officer
              February 2001                   4    Education Specialist, Finance         S               S
                                                   Officer, Operations Officers (2)

 ICR
              October 2001                    3     Education Specialist,                S               S
                                                    Human Resources Officer,
                                                    Operations Officer

In addition to the formal supervision missions shown above, an Operations Officer based in Jakarta,
Indonesia, from January 1995 through mid-October 1999 was in frequent contact with Government and
implementing agency officials on matters of project implementation.




                                                    - 40 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      30                         100000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           40                         141811
  Supervision                                     48                         159541
  ICR                                              8                          40000
  Total                                         126                          441352
The World Bank's accounting system no longer provides disaggregated data on staff weeks and costs. Only
two figures are available: $241,811 for "Lending," i.e., all expenditures prior to Board approval
(Indentification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation) and $199,541 for "Supervision, i.e., all
expenditures following Board approval (Supervision and ICR). The disaggregated dollar amounts and staff
weeks shown in the table are staff estimates.




                                                   - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Initial Executive Project Summary
Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS)
Minutes of FEPS Review Meeting
Staff Appraisal Report
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors
Minutes of Negotiations
Loan Agreement
Mission Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
Project Supervision Report
Implementation Units' Annual Project Implementation Plans (by GOI fiscal year)
Implementations Units' Progress Reports (by GOI fiscal year)
Terms of Reference for Technical Audits
Final Technical Audit Reports
Implementation Completion Reports prepared by OTO-BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, and STAID
(Executive Summary)
Partners' Comments prepared by ETC-BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, and STAID
Lessons Learned prepared by STAID
Performance Indicators prepared by OTO-BAPPENAS, MOF, and STAID




                                                - 44 -

- 45 -

