Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A /. ;v >2-, -1,2-A,
Report No. 5124-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND
MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
September 26, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
his document has a restricted distribuion sand may be used by recipents only in the perfornmance of
their offiia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed wihout World DBak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 1,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BALITBANG     -  Office of Educational and Cultural Research and
Development, Ministry of Education and Culture
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Board
DIKMENUM      -  Directorate of General Secondary Education
(in the Ministry of Education and Culture)
GTZ           -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IKIP          -  Teacher Training College
MEC           -  ministry of Education and Culture
MITU          -  Management Training Unit
PKG           -  Inservice Teacher Training Program - First Phase
PPI           -  Entrance examination for ten senior public
universities
PUSDIKLAT     -  MEC Center for Staff Training
Repelita IV   -  Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984/85-1988/89)
SD            -  Primary school
SMA           -  Senior General Secondary Education
SMP           -  Junior General Secondary Education
SPG           -  Senior Secondary Teacher Training
SPKG          -  Inservice Teacher Training Program - Second Phase,
conducted at local level
SPP           -  Public school fees contributed by parents



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA   .............................                                       i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................. ........... .       ii-iii
I.  THE SECTOR .............        ....................................      1
Overview .......................... ..........................            1
Issues .................................................... .             2
General Secondary Education Quality .......................             2
Teacher Preparation..  ..................                             3
School Science Equipment  ............ ... ....... ........          3
Examinations ........     .. ............ .o..........               4
Libraries and Textbooks..o      .......... o ..........               5
Teacher Multiple Employment......... ....................             5
Secondary School Equity.  .... ................... ......               6
Financing Secondary Education .......... o............. .               6
Action Program to Improve General Secondary Education .....             6
Management Skills in the Education Sector .................             7
Government Strategy and Bank Role         ......       ..........         7
Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Project ...............             8
II.  THE PROJECT .........................                                     9
Project Objectives and Scope ........................ .....               9
General Secondary Education ..................... oo ..........         9
Education Sector Management Training Program .............             12
Preinvestment Studies and Project Evaluation   ... ......              12
Project Management ....................................                13
Implementation         .................... ........                     13
Status of Project Preparation ........pan..........                      13
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan................. o .........           14
Recurrent Costs .............................................            17
Maintenanet ..........                                                   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
December 1983. Mission members included J. van Lutsenburg Maas (mission
leader), D. Lewis (architect), B. Makau (examinations specialist, consultant)
and C. Bayulken (editor). A postappraisal mission, comprising J. van
Lutsenburg Maas (mission leader), R. Montague (architect), C. MacAndrews
(management trainer, consultant), and R. Egan (operations assistant) visited
Indonesia in April/May 1984.
IThis document has a restrted distbution and may be used by repients only in the perfomnc of
Ir offiki duteu Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without Wodd Bank autoizaio



Page No.
Disbursements .................. ....... ..................... *   18
Auditing and Reporting ......................................      18
Benefits and Risks ..........................................      18
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........      ..............  19
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1   Suimmary of Project Costs by Component .......................      15
2.2   Financing Plan ...............................................      16
ANNEXES
1.    Comparative Education Indicators
2.    Education System
Chart 1:  Education Structure, 1984
Chart 2:  Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
Chart 3:  Organization of the Directorate of General Secondary
Education
3.    Secondary Education Action Programs
4.    Projected Growth in General Secondary Enrollment, 1984/85-1994/95
5.    Teacher Improvement
Table 1: Estimated Supply of Teachers by Subject, 1983/84-1988/89
Table 2:  Planned Training of Key Teachers by  Subject (PKG), 1984-89
Table 3: Planned Improvement of Teachers by Subject (SPKG), 1984-89
6.    Examinations Center
Chart 1: Organization of the Center for Research and Development of
Examination System
7.    Management Training Program
8.    Project Costs and Implementation
Table 1:  Estimated Costs per Year of Implementation, by Project
Component
Table 2:  Summary of Project Costs
Table 3:  Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Table 4:  Project Expenditures by Procurement Category
Table 5:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1:  Implementation Schedule
9.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (millions)                                   152.6
Annual growth (Z)                                       2.2
Labor force (millions)                                   54.3
Participation rate (Z)                                 52.6
Employment by sector (Z):
Agriculture                                            55
Industry                                               13
Services                                               32
GNP per capita (US$)(1983)                              580
Education
Labor force by education
level (1980)                  Primary & below    Secondary    Higher
Number (millions)                  45.9              5.7        0.4
Distribution (Z)                  88.3             10.9         0.8
Enrollment (millions) (1982/83)
Secondary
Primary       Junior         Senior        Higher
Public                22.5          2.38            1.07          0.24
Private                2.2           1.89           1.18          0.27
Total              24.7          4.27            2.25          0.51
As Z of age group       100            41              24            4
Public Education Budget (1982/83)
As percentage of GDP                                              2.4
As percentage of total budget for public expenditures             7.2
/a   Data are for 1982 or the 1982/83 schooL year unless otherwise stated.
Sources: Ministry of Education and Culture; 1980 Population Census, Bureau of
Statistics, Jakarta; Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, 1983.



- ii. -
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$78.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:     The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) assist the
Government to improve the quality of general secondary edu-
cation and thereby raise the quality of Indonesia's human
resources for economic development; and (b) strengthen
management and planning skills at senior levels in the
education sector. The project would: (i) provide in-
service training for teachers of science, mathematics and
English and for provincial school supervisors and head-
masters; (ii) improve the provision of school science
equipment; (iii) increase the institutional capacity to
develop and operate a more effective national school
examinations system; and (iv) strengthen management and
planning performance in the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MEC) through a fellowship training scheme and a
management study. The main benefits of the project would
be to improve the quality of about 42,000 teachers in key
subject areas; increase the availability of improved
science equipment at about 8,200 public and private
secondary schools; strengthen the national examinations
system; and improve the management and planning skills of
about 250 senior MEC officials. Because this would be the
first Bank-financed project under the Directorate of
General Secondary Education and the Examinations Center,
there is a risk of some delays in project implementation.
The technical assistance in project management to be
provided by UNDP should reduce this risk.



- iii -
Estimated Costs: /a
Local    Foreign   Total
-US$ million -
Teacher improvement                                  39.9        13.1    53.0
Science equipment:
Prototypes                                         0.4        1.0      1.4
Distribution                                       0.7        0.3      1.0
Procurement                                       4.6        25.3    29.9
Examination development                               3.1        4.1      7.2
Education sector management training program          1.8        5.3      7.1
Preinvestment studies and project evaluation          0.5        0.5      1.0
Project management support                            0.8        0.8      1.6
Base Cost                                         51.8       50.4   102.2
Physical contingencies                                3.5        4.2      7.7
Price contingencies                                  12.8         7.0    19.8
Total Project Cost                                68.1       61.6   129.7
Front-end fee on Bank loan                            0.0        0.2      0.2
Total Financing Required                          68.1       61.8   129.9
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total
-- US$ million --
IBRD                                                 16.6      61.4      78.0
Government                                           51.5       0.0      51.5
UNDP                                                  0.0       0.4       0.4
Total                                             68.1      61.8    129.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1985      1986    1987    1988    1989
…------------ US$ million -------
Annual                               2.4     11.6    22.5      33.4      8.1
Cumulative                           2.4     14.0    36.5      69.9    78.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
/a   Import duties or taxes on building materials would be negligible and
hence have not been identified separately in project costs.



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
Overview
1.        With a primary and secondary school-age population of about 46 mil-
lion in 1984, Indonesia faces a difficult task in providing basic education
and pre-employment training to its children and young people. The Government
has made notable progress to date. Universal access to grade one of primary
school has been virtually achieved. Dropout and repetition rates have dropped
in the past decade in spite of the much larger volume of children involved.
EnroLlments in primary schools grew from 13.0 million children in 1972 to 24.7
million in 1982/83. At the junior secondary level, enrollment tripled from
1.4 million in 1971 to 4.3 million in 1982/83 and the enrollment rate has
reached 41Z. At the senior secondary level, enrollment grew from 0.6 million
in 1971 to 2.3 million in 1982/83 resulting in an enrollment rate of 24%.
2.        Despite these achievements there is an acute shortage of skilled
manpower which constrains effective implementation of development programs.
Current enrollment rates in both secondary education (35%) and higher
education (4%) are still well below recent Regional averages of about 44% and
13% respectively. Substantial investment in the education system beyond the
primary level is required, in particular to increase the supply and quality of
secondary school graduates who are more efficiently trainable as professional,
para-professional, technical and managerial manpower. Recent tracer studies
on the jobs and incomes of school-leavers from all levels of primary and
secondary education have revealed chat the economic rate of return to
compLeting secondary education is 242 for T3l types, while it is 32Z for
general secondary education in particular.-   While these figures should
decline as the number of school leavers increases, the benefits of secondary
education are expected to remain substantial.
3.        The formal education system consists of a six-year primary school
cyc_e, junior and senior secondary cycles of three years each and post-
secondary education ranging from one to six years (Annex 2, Chart 1). The
system is divided into several types of schools at the secondary level: junior
secondary - general (SMP); home economics; and technical; senior secondary -
general (SMA); commerce; home economics; technical; teacher training (SPG);
and sports teacher training. At the junior level over 90% of enrollment is in
1/   "Secondary Education in Indonesia:  Issues and Programs for Action",
World Bank Report No. 4954-IND, July 26, 1984, paras. 3.55-3.56, Table
3.17. These findings concur with recent World Bank studies elsewhere
which find high returns to general secondary education. See World
Development Report, 1983, page 106.



-2-
the general schools while at the senior level the share of enrollment in
general secondary schools has been increasing. Demand for general secondary
education has already exceeded the capacity of public sector schools.
Consequently, private schools have multiplied to meet demand and at the senior
secondary level outnumber public schools.
4.        The rapid growth of the education sector has strained the management
capabilities of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), which generally
suffers from a lack of adequately trained staff at the senior levels. The MEC
is divided into seven major branches (Annex 2, Chart 2). The Secretariat
General deals with administration, planning, budget and financial and
personnel management. The Directorate General of Primary and Secondarv
Education provides inservice teacher training, and establishes and maii.cains
standards. The Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Development
(BALITBANG) collects statistical data on the system, conducts long-term plan-
ning and carries out research, curriculum development and evaluation. The
Inspectorate General audits the accounts and performance of the rest of the
Ministry by confirming that the instructions of the Minister are implemen-
ted. In addition, there are Directorates General for Higher Education, Cul-
ture, and Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports. The MEC has management and
planning responsibility for 160,000 budget units; it has direct or indirect
responsibility for 1.6 million out of Indonesia's 3.0 million civil servants;
and it has the largest development and routine budgets of any Ministry.
Issues
5.        Now that free access to primary school has been achieved, demand for
secondary education is expected to grow rapidly. According to government
projections, during the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV,
1984/85-1988/89) junior secondary enrollments will increase by 10.4% p.a. from
4.7 million in 1983/84 to 7.7 million in 1988/89, while senior secondary
enrollments will grow 11.3% p.a. from 2.5 million to 4.3 million (Annexes 3
and 4). However, the country is facing severe resource constraints which will
affect development of the subsector and the Government's ability to dWel with
the main issues, namely:  educational quality; equity; and financing.-   This
project focusses on improvement in the quality of secondary education. Hence,
the issues related to quality are discussed below in greater depth than the
issues of equity or finance.
General Secondary Education Quality
6.        One indicator that learning levels in secondary schools are low is
the fact that some public universities and teacher training institutes (IKIPs)
have to admit students who scored only slightly above the random guessing
score on the multiple choice item university entrance examinations. Low
quality of learning in secondary schools can be attributed to several
sources. Among these are: a shortage of adequately prepared teachers; a lack
of quality-assisting resources such as science equipment, textbooks and school
2/   These issues are treated in detail in Report No. 4954-IND.



-3-
libraries; an ineffective system of school examinations; and the common
practice of many teachers of teaching in more than one school and thereby
scattering their attention and energy.
7.        Teacher Preparation.  The rapid expansion of general secondary
education has led to shortages of qualified teachers in mathematics, science,
and English (Annex 5, Table 1). Often these subjects are taught by teachers
who have had only one or two years of postsecondary education, and it is
common for those teachers who are qualified in these fields to spread their
teaching between two or three schools. The Government is undertaking major
efforts to overcome these shortages. Crash courses in teacher training are
being offered by the IKIPs but the teachers graduating from such courses are
underqualified and require inservice training. A major survey of secondary
school achievement levels in 1978 found that students taught by teachers who
have received inservice training in specific subject areas, inJuding mathe-
matics, science and English, showed higher achievement levels.-   In 1980, the
Directorate of General Secondary Education (DIKMENUM) (Annex 2, Chart 3) began
a program to upgrade SMP and SMA teachers in these key subjects. The initial
phase of the program, known as Pemantapan Kerja Guru (PKC) (translated as
"fostering the work of the teacher") is an inservice approach to the upgrading
of teachers. PKG was initiated with assistance from UNDP and UNESCO. The
second stage of the program would use the PKG-trained pool of key teachers to
lead further inservice courses in Teachers Centers in all districts
(kabupatens). This second phase (SPKG) would spread the teacher improvement
program to the rest of the country and requires new financing. An external
evaluation of the program has recently found that the program s strongest
effects have been in rural schools.
8.        School Science Equipment.  Science equipment in Indonesian schools
has largely consisted of imported equipment, or badly made local copies of
imported equipment. Some of this equipment is not designed to meet the
requirements of the Indonesian science curriculum, and because it is imported
replacement of parts is more difficult. In addition, teachers are reluctant
to make full use of it because they must pay for any damage, and the instruc-
tion manuals are written in foreign languages which causes problems in its use
and maintenance. As a result, students have limited opportunities to carry
out experiments in class. In 1976, an MEC workshop for the development, test-
ing, and production of prototypes for primary school science teaching aids was
established at the IKIP, Bandung. The aim was to produce suitable prototypes
out of local materials. The prototypes are being given to Indonesian manufac-
turers who are adopting them to raise the quality and competitiveness of their
products. By means of this "transfer of technology" the Indonesian school
system will reduce its dependence on imports. Given the projected future
growth of the domestic school equipment market there are good economy-of-scale
reasons for fostering a strong domestic manufacturing capability in this
field.
3/   Report No. 4954-IND, para. 3.10 and Appendix.



- 4 -
9.        The initial workshop for producing equipment prototypes was supported
by the Federal Republic of Germany, which supplied machinery and tools and
technical assistance while the MEC provided both space and local personnel.
Indonesian authorities as well as outside experts have given very favorable
reviews to the first phase of this program. The prototypes are being used by
local manufacturers to produce higher quality equipment for primary science
teaching. Therefore the Government would like to extend the program to a
second phase which would develop prototypes for local production of secondary
school science teaching equipment.
10.       At present science equipment is stored in temporary "ttransit ware-
housest' which do not provide adequate inventory control, before being given to
transport companies for delivery. Equipment selection is based on centrally
determined, standard equipment sets which results in a serious mismatch
between supplies and needs. In addition, there are long delays in distribu-
tion of equipment to schools in outlying provinces. The distribution system
should become more responsive to actual needs. This would require a new
system comprising a central warehouse for receipt and checking of deliveries,
provincial warehouses for storage and distribution of the necessary supplies
to schools, and a network of key science teachers who can diagnose problems
with faulty equipment and either repair it or send the item back to suppliers
for repair.
11.       With the rapid growth of enrollments taking place at present, more
equipment is needed in the short- as well as the long-term to permit pupils to
conduct science experiments in schools. This active approach is emphasized in
the PKG/SPKG inservice training program for teachers (para. 7). Thus, even
while science equipment prototypes are being developed for use by Indonesian
manufacturers (paras. 8-9), further large-scale importation of science equip-
ment is needed over the next 3 to 4 years, mainly to meet the needs resulting
from expansion of the secondary school system.
12.       Examinations.  The national grade 12 leaving and university entrance
examination was abolished more than ten years ago. For the past decade,
schools have set their own leaving examinations. However, the autonomy given
to schools has made it difficult to establish national standards in the
assessment of either school or student performance. Schools and teachers are
unwilling to fail too many students and consequently the final examination
results and graduation certificates carry little weight with prospective
employers, postsecondary institutions, or the students themselves.
13.       When secondary schools began to set their own leaving examinations,
groups of public universities began to set common entrance examinations in
order to have objective, standardized criteria for selecting among student
applicants. In addition, entrance examinations have been conducted by many
individual private universities. These university selection examinations
largely fulfilled their function of safeguarding standards of education in
public universities. However, they also exert a negative influence over what
is actually taught in the upper grades of the senior general secondary school.
The examination questions have been entirely multiple-choice based.  Some
important intellectual and application skills which have not been tested, for
example, writing continuous prose, have therefore been ignored by teachers and



students alike. Furthermore secondary school teachers have had little or no
input into determining examination questions and have received no feedback on
school or student performance in the areas of knowledge which have been
tested. The schools and the MEC therefore have been excluded from important
information for monitoring the actual cognitive performance of the schools.
If appropriately analyzed and reported such information could be used to
correct teaching methods or to emphasize important topics which have been
overlooked, and to stimulate local education officials and school principals
and teachers to improve the performance levels of their schools and classes.
Reform of the examinations system including the creation of a performance
feedback system is clearly necessary and could contribute significantly to an
improvement of the quality of education at a relatively low marginal unit
cost. With the continued use of examination fees, the system can remain
virtually self-financing. Consequently, examinations have become an obvious
focus for institutional development in che education sector.
14.       The Governmenc has recently decided that from 1984, selection for
public university and IKIP entrance will be based on both in-school assessment
and a single centrally administered examination. To implement this policy
effectively, multiple choice items need to be improved and new examination
tools and machinery need to be designed. These include changes such as the
testing of writing and laboratory skills and the opening of many more testing
sites so that students in outlying areas will have more opportunity to take
the examination. Whereas the previous university entrance examinations have
been conducted by ad hoc committees of MEC and university officials, the MEC
now intends to pass this responsibility on a regular basis to its Examinations
Center, which previously has developed tests and test items for other parts of
MEC to use. Therefore the Examinations Center will need technical, material
and financial support in order gradually to carry out this added responsi-
bility.
15.       Libraries and Textbooks.  Recent studies on school quality in
Indonesia have pointed out the great importance of school libraries and book
holdings in accounting for levels of academic achievement. According to the
MEC only about 450 out of 18,000 secondary schools have acceptable school
library facilities. Recognizing the importance of improving libraries of
various types, the MEC has recently requested the UNESCO/World Bank Coopera-
tive Program to undertake a survey of investment priorities and strategies for
library development, with a view to a separate project in this area. The Bank
has already financed two projects to develop school textbooks.
16.       Teacher Multiple Employment.  The practice of "multi-jobbing" by
secondary school teachers has had a negative effect on school quality. Due to
continuing teacher shortages this practice is likely to continue even if the
Government raises teacher salaries significantly in real terms. Because of
budgetary constraints, however, it is unlikely to do this in the foreseeable
future. Meanwhile, the World Bank is assisting the Government under the
Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND) to expand the output of newly
trained teachers from the IKIPs.



-6-
Secondary School Equity
17.       Until recently new secondary schools in Indonesia tended to be located
in cities and towns in response to greater social demand in those areas.  In
addition, boarding facilities are uncommon. Consequently bright children from
rural areas were forced to migrate to urban areas simply to enter secondary
school.  Not surprisingly, therefore, urban areas on average have about  s
times as much representation in senior secondary schools as rural areas.-   In
1982, the Government took a major step to redress this inequity by financing
construction of over 1,000 new public secondary schools in rural areas, and it
is expected that future capital expansion will continue this policy. Further
measures to improve equity include facilitating access to the national
university entrance examinations for secondary school graduates in the more
remote provinces (para. 14), and, through the proposed project, improving the
quality of teaching in science, mathematics and English, particularly in rural
schools where teachers have traditionally been weakest. This would be done by
locating more inservice teacher courses and Teachers Centers in rural areas
and improving access to school science equipment.
Financing Secondary Education
18.       The rapid growth of secondary education would pose considerable
financial burdens if the full cost were to be borne by the central Govern-
-ent. However, in practice, the Government has usually financed only a small
share, between 10 and 20X, of all expenditures on secondary education because
there are so many private schools, and because even pulb ic schools charge some
fees while providing virtually no boarding facilities.-   In these respects
the school system in Indonesia is similar to that of the Philippines, Korea
and Thailand, where private initiatives plAv a key role in reducing the
Government's recurrent cost burden. Fu-:Zhermore, the annual rate of increase
in the Goverrment's routine budget is not allowed to exceed about 3% p.a.
while enrollments recently have Leaped by more than 10% p.a. Since the
routine budget is used mainly to pay salaries, most expenditures for educa-
tional materials are financed by "projects" under the annual development
budget.
Action Program to Improve General Secondary Education
19.       The Government has been increasing the education sector's share of
the development budget in recent years and this will necessarily continue
through Repelita IV if quality is to be maintained in the face of continued
rapid enrollment growth. It is estimated that simply to accommodate projected
growth in public schools, without any increase in resources per user, the
overall secondary budget will need to grow about 6% p.a. If a package of
actions to improve quality and equity, and mobilize local community resources
4/   Report No. 4954-IND, Appendix, Figure 10.
5/   Ibid, Table 3.8 and paras. 3.37-3.38.



- 7 -
is a?ypted then it is estimated that the budget would need to grow at about 8X
p.a.-   This action program is summarized in Annex 3.
Management Skills in the Education Sector
20.       The NYEC is the largest Ministry in the Indonesian Government in
terms of budget allocations with 14.4Z of the development budget in 1983/84,
and 7.3% of the total budget, both routine and development. It administers
some 1.6 million personnel or 50% of the total civil service and has manage-
ment and planning responsibility for 160,000 accounting units.
21.       The MEC suffers from several major problems.  First, while it is
adequately staffed in terms of numbers, most of its senior managers are former
school teachers and professors who have had no preservice or inservice train-
ing in management and planning. Consequently, many MEC administrators tend to
see themselves as resource spenders rather than resource managers. A large-
scale training program is required for senior MEC staff in areas such as
personnel management, financial management, budget management and accounting,
quantitative planning, management information systems, organizational develop-
ment, and education planning. Second, the system suffers from a rigid appli-
cation of civil service regulations which place too much value on seniority
over merit. The personnel system needs to be revised to incorporate perfor-
mance evaluation which would reward meritorious staff regardless of length of
service. Finally, MEC lacks an efficient management information system to
provide information flows in such vital areas as costs, budget and expendi-
tures. Trained individuals are needed in key, high-spending units to increase
the flow of management information, especially that related to the budget. To
address these problems and strengthen management and planning performance in
the MEC, a management study needs to be carried out. A recent World Bank
study on Management Development in Indonesia! has shown the need for these
types of actions in various parts of the public sector in Indonesia
Government Strategy and Bank Role
22.       With the achievement of universal access to primary education, the
Government has decided to give major priority during Repelita IV and V to
secondary and higher education. Particular attention will be given to
improving the quality of secondary schools during a period of expected rapid
growth. Given the growing size of the national education budget, the Govern-
ment also attaches priority to improving the management efficiency of the MEC.
23.       The Bank Group has supported 15 education projects in Indonesia.
Five of these projects, Teacher Training I and II, Textbooks I and II, and
University Development I, have addressed issues reLated to secondary
6/   Ibid, Chapter 5 and Appendix Tables 10 and 11.
71   "Indonesia:  Management Development" (3 volumes), June 15, 1984, Report
No. 4965-IND.



- 8 -
education. The two teacher training projects have focussed on strengthening
the secondary schools that are preparing primary school teachers and the
colleges which give preservice training to secondary school teachers. The
second project is also supporting colleges for teachers of the handicapped and
an incountry program to train Large numbers of mid- to low-level education
administrators. Under the University Development I Project, the Government
agreed to consider ways to improve university entrance procedures. The pro-
posed project wouLd assist the implementation of changes in these proce-
dures. The Second Textbook Project (Loan 2102-IND) has initiated the estab-
lishment of a school supply warehousing system in the provinces which would be
made further use of under the proposed project. OED Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for two education projects in Indonesia and
the Lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project. The PPAR for the Technical Education Project (Credit 219-IND)
(No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, Sec M80-440) stressed the importance of includ-
ing fellowships for development of teachers and school administrators and
appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner. The PPAR
for the first Agricultural Training Project (Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated
June 30, 1980, Sec M80-527) stressed the importance of advanced preparation
and the need for carefully designed and suitable technical assistance compo-
nents.
Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Project
24.       The Bank has made no major, direct investments in general secondary
education in Indonesia previously. This was largely due to fears that
temporary unemployment of secondary school leavers signified a low return to
an investment in secondary education which has since proved to be unfounded by
the results of a national tracer study (para. 2). The Bank's recent sector
study on general secondary education in Indonesia (Report No. 4954-IND), which
was reviewed with the Government in final draft in April 1984, identifies a
series of critical policy issues and recommends programs of action to improve
quality, equity, resource mobilization and cost recovery. These programs are
summarized in Annex 3. The project being proposed would incorporate some of
the principal ingredients of those programs, especially quality improvement,
and the preinvestment funds in the project would permit experiments with other
aspects of the programs. As already mentioned (para. 2), the social return on
investments in general secondary education in Indonesia has reached above
30Z. This proposed project would attempt to ensure that the quality of that
education would improve in key areas even while it continues to expand
rapidly. The reform of the examinations system (paras. 12-14) is a particu-
larly important educational policy development in which the proposed project
would invest resources. At the same time the proposed overseas fellowship
program for training senior MEC managers and planners would improve the pro-
ductivity of this largest and still growing portion of Indonesia's public
investment program.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
25.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) assist the
Government to improve the quality of general secondary education and thereby
raise the quality of Indonesia's human resources for economic development; and
(b) strengthen management and planning skills at senior Levels in the educa-
tion sector.
26.       To improve the quality of general secondary education the project
would provide funds for civil works, equipment and furniture, technical
assistance, local and overseas training, studies, and salaries and
honoraria. It would:
(a) provide inservice teacher training in science, mathematics and
English, and expand training of provincial school supervisors and
headmasters initiated over the past four years with UNDP/UNESCO
assistance;
(b) produce equipment prototypes, using Local materials where possible,
for dissemination to local manufacturers in order to develop their
capacity to manufacture secondary school science equipment;
Cc) strengthen the school science equipment distribution/storage/
maintenance system through provision of warehouse facilities;
Cd) procure new stocks of school science equipment; and
Ce) increase the institutional capacity to develop and operate a more
effective national school examinations system, by broadening the
scope of work and increasing the human and physical resources of the
existing Examinations Center in the MEC.
27.       To strengthen management and planning performance in the MEC the
project would provide funds for a training needs assessment and a fellowship
scheme to train present and future senior managerial and planning staff, and
to carry out a management study.
28.       Finally, to strengthen the capacity of the DIKMENUM and the Examina-
tions Center to prepare and implement future projects, this project would
provide assistance for preinvestment studies, project monitoring and
evaluation and project management.
General Secondary Education
29.       Teacher Improvement.  The project would train some 42,000 science,
mathematics and English teachers at 240 nonresidential Teachers Centers under
the SPKG program (Annex 5, Tables 2 and 3). These teachers would remain
on-the-job during their training which would extend over two semesters,
involving both once-a-week group instruction at the Centers and on-the-job



- 10 -
observation and coaching back in their own classrooms. The content of the
training would be in subject matter, practical teaching methods, and methods
of student performance evaLuation. The trainers themselves are being trained
according to a "multiplier" or "cascade" design which is commonly used in
Indonesia. First about 150 "instructors" are being trained in a combination
of short overseas courses and national in-country courses. Then they in turn
will train about 1,850 key teachers at regional residential training
centers. The key teachers (who are already partly trained from the pilot
phase of the project) will actually lead the local SPKG courses in the
Teachers Centers for the target group. To reinforce the newly trained
teachers in their work situation, the project would also give short orienta-
tion courses to about 1,400 headmasters. To guide the training program, the
project would provide a total of about 1,600 man-months of training to about
150 instructors, 80 key headmasters, 80 provincial supervisors, and three
program leaders.
30.       Seventy Teachers Centers already operate in existing secondary
schools and new Centers are being established continually. The project would
build, equip, and furnish simple facilities for about 190 of the 240 Centers
in rural areas. These facilities would be located adjacent to existing
schools and consist of one or two laboratory/multipurpose rooms and a
workroom.  The Teachers Centers are managed by the headmasters of the schools
at which they are located, under the supervision of the Provincial Education
Office. Sixty-four of the 240 Centers would have a small science equipment
repair facility. Finally this component would include about 80 man-months of
consultant services and 24 English-speaking assistants to assist in the
training of the national instructors and key teachers with particular emphasis
on English language teaching. SPKG courses have begun to take place already
in a few pioneering provinces. Early evaluation of PKG and SPKG trained
teachers show very encouraging results. Training within the project scope
beginning April 1, 1984 (the start of the Indonesian fiscal year) would
qualify for retroactive financing under the loan.
31.       Science Equipment.  The project would assist in the provisioa of
science teaching equipment to secondary schools in three distinct and comple-
mentary ways, both short- and long-term.
32.       Science Equipment Prototypes.  The project would provide resources
to extend to the secondary level an earlier project which developed prototypes
for primary school science equipment (paras. 8-9). Technical assistance
(41 man-months of consultant services) and training would be given to DIKMENUM
Directorate staff and a workshop and office would be built, equipped and
furnished to create and test prototypes of secondary science equipment,
adapted to the Indonesian curriculum and using local materials. These proto-
types would then be disseminated to local manufacturers to improve their pro-
duction when bidding for contracts to suppLy science equipment to the
schools. In order to institutionalize the prototype development process,
local technical and support staff would be appointed and trained both overseas
(48 man-months of fellowships) and domestically. The workshop would be
located next to the proposed central warehouse for equipment distribution
(para. 26(c)).



- 11 -
33.       Strengthening the Distribution of Science Equipment.  To improve the
distribution of science equipment to schools, the project would construct,
equip and furnish a central warehouse for receiving, storing, controlling and
dispatching centrally-procured science equipment. This facility would be
operated by DIKMENUM staff. Two man-months of consultant's services would be
provided to assist with planning the distribution and training. The warehouse
would be located adjacent to the Second Textbook Project warehouse to simpLify
the joint distribution of textbooks and science equipment. In the provinces
and districts, the distribution system would make use of a new system of
regional warehouses and depots also being -rovided under the Second Textbook
Project.
34.       Science Equipment Procurement.  While the previous two components
would enhance the supply of equipment in the medium- to long-term, the project
would also alleviate existing and anticipated shortages of science equipment
over the next three years by supplying sets of equipment to about 8,200
schools. About 80Z of the equipment would be for new schools or private
schools which have never received equipment previously. The remainder would
be to restock schools where supplies have been depleted after years of use.
The MEC has an annual tender for secondary school science equipment for both
new schools and resupply of existing schools. Much of the equipment (or its
component parts) is imported, thus incurring significant foreign exchange
costs to the Government. The project would finance the annual tender for
three years. Procurement procedures have been reviewed and commented upon by
the Bank.
35.       Examination Development.  This component would increase the institu-
tional capacity to develop and operate a national secondary school leaving and
university entrance examination system. The existing Examinations Center
(Annex 6, Chart 1), in the BALITBANG, would be strengthened under the project
through provision of specialists (42 man-months), staff training fellowships
(1,807 man-months), equipment, and a new headquarters building. The Exam-
inations Center would develop the secondary school leaving examination and the
examination for entrance to higher education. Eventually these two examina-
tions may merge. The Center's main functions in this area would be test
development, production of test papers and their distribution, marking,
grading and preparation of feedback reports to MEC officials and schools.
Efficient support services would be required in the areas of: data
processing; printing; library and records; accounts; personnel; general admi-
nistration; and external testing (for clients outside MEC). The annual
operating costs of examinations have routinely been recovered from parentaL
fees and examination candidate fees. This practice would continue.
36.       The project would assist in the human and physical development of
the Center. This process will necessarily carry on for several more years and
would justify further aid. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that staff for the additional positions being established in the
Center would be appointed in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank and that a site for the Center and for other project facilities would be
acquired by March 31, 1985.



- 12 -
Education Sector Management Training Program
37.       The training program would be primarily for overseas study in
various management and planning fields not readily available or of high enough
quality in Indonesia and would include language study (Annex 7). Where avail-
able, in-country courses would be used. The specific target groups for the
training program are as follows: (a) senior officials in the seven central MEC
units; (b) senior provincial education officers; (c) future IKIP lecturers in
education management, finance and planning; and (d) staff of MEC's Center for
Staff Training. About 200 incumbents in senior positions would receive short-
term training while recent graduates would follow postgraduate courses, mostly
MA (49) and some PhD (11) (for a total of 2,892 man-months). The in-country
administration of the scheme would be done by a Management Training Unit (MTU)
under the Secretary General of MEC. Standing agreements (contracts) would be
made with agencies (usually official) in each of the countries to which
fellows would be sent for the in-country supervision of the fellows. To ini-
tiate the scheme, an Indonesian team, including representatives of NEC and the
National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), would conduct a reconnaissance mission to
the countries most likely to receive fellows to identify partner training
institutions. Terms of reference for this mission have been prepared and
reviewed by the Bank. An initital assessment of priority training require-
ments has already been completed. A more comprehensive training needs assess-
ment would be carried out under the MTU to guide the later years of the fel-
lowship program. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that the
assessment would be conducted in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank and the results of the assessment would be furnished to the Bank
by December 31, 1985. In addition a management study of MEC would be carried
out in order to improve the organization and procedures of the Ministry. The
study would be executed by a local firm of management consultants under the
direction of a technical working group within MEC, including a representative
of the National Institute of Administration. (A total of 186 man-months of
specialists services would be provided for this component.) Initial terms of
reference for the study have been prepared and were reviewed at nego-
tiations. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that the study
would be implemented in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank (see Annex 7 for an outline of the study), and that the results of the
study would be available to the Bank by December 31, 1986.
Preinvestment Studies and Project Evaluation
38.       The duration of the proposed project is for three years, to be
followed by further projects to improve and further develop secondary schools,
develop the examination system and train senior education sector managers.
Therefore the project would Provide for honoraria, consultant services and
related expenses to assist .NEC to implement the project, prepare surveys, and
conduct feasibility studies for possible follow-up investments in these and
related education subsectors. In particular, DIKMENUM, assisted by other
parts of the MEC as necessary, would conduct tryouts, surveys and feasibility
studies for some of those action programs which are recommended in the sector



- 13 -
study on secondary education.81 The project would assist MEC in monitoring
and evaluating the implementation and impact of the project, with particular
attention to the delivery of project-financed quality resources, e.g., the
training of teachers and managers, production of equipment prototypes, and
distribution of equipment. In addition, the project would finance a new
tracer study to monitor secondary school graduate performance in the labor
market.
Project Kanagement
39.       Implementation of the project would be managed as follows:  (a) the
teacher improvement and science equipment components and the pre-investment
studies by an existing management unit in DIKMENUM; (b) the development of the
institutional capacity to operate a national examination system by the Exami-
nations Center in the BALITBANG; and (c) the management craining program by
the MTU of the Secretariat General. Coordination of management activities by
these three entities would be provided by a steering committee representing
each of them and chaired by the Director of DIKMENUM.
40.       Because this project would be the first major international invest-
ment project in the DIKMENUM, it would include technical assistance for
project management and procurement. This assistance would help to speed
implementation of this project and prepare an organization for preparing and
managing further projects. It would be provided through a cost-sharing agree-
ment between the Government (two-thirds) and UNDP (one-third). The Government
share would be reimbursable under the proposed loan. The supporting personnel
provided under the agreement would be located with the management unit in
DIKMENUM but would also assist the units concerned with the implementation of
the other project components. One hundred sixteen man-months of technical
personnel would be provided by the UN Office of Project Execution, as would 37
man-months of fellowships in financial and supply management and evaluation.
Implementation
41.       The project would be implemented over a period of about three years
following loan signing (Annex 8, Table 1 and Chart 1). The loan would finance
expenditures incurred until September 30, 1987. To allow time for the
processing of final withdrawal applications and the settlement of accounts,
the Closing Date would be September 30, 1988.
Status of Project Preparation
42.       The existing secondary schools at which the 190 Teachers Centers are
to be located have been identified and prototype building designs have been
prepared by MEC architects. Provincial Public Works Departments will tender
contracts for the buildings and supervise construction. Enough land is avail-
able at the site of the central warehouse for the Second Textbook Project to
locate the combined science equipment warehouse and prototype development
8/   Report No. 4954-IND, Chapter 5, paras. 5.02-5.04.



- 14 -
locate the combined science equipment warehouse and prototype development
workshop being built under this project. A site is also in the process of
being acquired for the Examinations Center building. Local architectural
firms acceptable to the Bank will be employed to design the combined science
equipment warehouse and prototype deveLopment workshop and the Examinations
Center building. Lists of required equipment and furniture are under prepara-
tion. Contracts have been drafted and commented upon by Bank staff for the
supply of technical assistance to project management (with the UNDP) and for
the supply of equipment and technical assistance and training for the science
equipment prototype component with the German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ). Final contract negotiations are under way and are expected to be
completed soon. The Government brought to negotiations sketch plans and
equipment lists for: (a) the Teachers Centers; (b) the workshop facility for
the development of science equipment prototypes; and (c) the Examinations
Center, plus a List of additional positions to be established in the Examina-
tions Center during the project and a schedule for their establishment.
Sketch plans for the warehouse for science equipment distribution would be
developed following further study of the distribution system.
43.       Architectural designs and construction documents for all project
institutions are under way as are master lists of equipment and furniture and
bid documents and specifications, and identification and selection of
specialists for necessary services and of local staff for fellowship training.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
44.       The cost of the secondary education program under Repelita IV is
estimated at US$239.7 million equivalent (for which a cost breakdown is
provided in Annex 8, Table 2). The total cost of this project is estimated
at US$129.7 million equivalent. (Cost tables for the project are also
presented in Annex 8, Table 2 and are summarized below in Table 2.1).
45.       Construction cost estimates are the product of:  (a) minimum
physical requirements appropriate to the project's objectives; and (b) recent
contract awards adjusted to April 1984   ices.  Costs per square meter of
gross construction gaea average US$290 P  for the more complex buildings in
Jakarta and US$170 _  for the Teachers Centers, excluding site development
costs. Estimated equipment costs are the product of: (a) lists reviewed
during appraisal; and (b) current c.i.f. prices adjusted to include transpor-
tation costs. Furniture costs are estimated at about 10% of construction
costs. Equipment and materials imported under the project would be exempt
from duties and taxes. Import duties or taxes on building materials have not
been identified separately in project costs as such taxes are negligible.
9/   These square meter costs are for basic construction as covered by
BAPPENAS budgetary provisions. Total construction costs including the
costs of such additional work as electrical and telephone connections,
gas installation and special built-in benchwork, etc. are not provided
for in the BAPPENAS allowances and increase the square meter costs to
about US$470 for the major buildings and US$195 for the Teachers Centers.



- 15 -
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Rp billion              US$ million           % of
Project component              Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  base cost
Teacher improvement             39.9    13.1    53.0   39.9    13.1    53.0        51.9
Science equipment:
Prototypes                     0.4     1.0      1.4    0.4      1.0     1.4       1.4
Distribution                  0.7      0.3      1.0    0.7      0.3     1.0       1.0
Procurement                    4.6    25.3    29.9    4.6    25.3    29.9        29.2
Subtotal                   5.7    26.6    32.3    5.7    26.6    32.3        31.6
Examination development          3.1     4.1      7.2    3.1      4.1     7.2       7.0
Education sector manage-
ment training program          1.8     5.3      7.1    1.8      5.3     7.1       6.9
Preinvestment studies and
project evaluation            0.5      0.5      1.0    0.5      0.5     1.0       1.0
Project management support       0.8     0.8      1.6    0.8      0.8     1.6       1.6
Baseline Cost              51.8    50.4   102.2   51.8    50.4   102.2    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                       3.5     4.2      7.7    3.5      4.2     7.7       7.5
Price increase               12.8      7.0    19.8   12.8       7.0    19.8      19.4
Subtotal                  16.3    11.2    27.5   16.3    11.2    27.5        26.9
Total Project Cost        68.1    61.6   129.7   68.1    61.6   129.7
Front-end fee on Bank loan       0.0     0.2      0.2    0.0      0.2     0.2
Total Financing Required    68.1    61.8   129.9   68.1    61.8   129.9



- 16 -
Technical assistance costs for consultants include salaries, allowances and
airfare. Unit costs for fellowships are estimated at about US$2,100 per man-
month for overseas fellowships inclusive of international travel and US$150
per man-month for local training. (See Annex 8, Table 3 for a summary of the
technical assistance to be provided.) The foreign exchange component of
US$61.6 million, representing about 47% of the total estimated project cost,
has been calculated on the basis of the following estimated foreign exchange
percentages: civil works - 25%; local architectural services - 20Z; equipment
- 85X; furniture - 30%; expatriate consultants and overseas fellowships - 85%;
Local consultants and training and salaries and honoraria - 10%; and studies -
50%. Physical contingencies represent 5% of the cost of technical assistance
and salaries and honoraria, and 10% of all other costs. Price contingencies
which equal about 19Z of the baseline cost estimate were calculated in
accordance with the implementation schedule and the following expected annual
increases: local - 12% for 1984 and 10% for 1985, 1986 and 1987; foreign -
3.5% for 1984, 8% for 1985 and 9% for 1986 and 1987. The proposed Bank loan
of US$78.0 million would finance 602 of the total estimated project cost,
including most of the foreign exchange requirements (US$61.2 million) and 24%
of the local costs of the project (US$16.6 million). The UNDP would finance
the remaining foreign exchange costs of the project by providing US$0.4
million for management services. Retroactive financing amounting to US$5.0
million is provided for under the loan for expenditures in all categories
beginning April 1, 1984, when implementation of the project began. The
proposed financing plan is indicated in Table 2.2 below.
Table 2.2: FINANCING PLAN
Category of expenditure       Government   UNDP   IBRD   Total   IBRD share
…US$ million                 ----       (Z)
Buildings and site
development                    11.6       0.0     4.3    17.3        25
Furniture                         0.9       0.0     0.4      1.3       30
Equipment                         6.1       0.0    34.6    40.7        85
Professional services             1.2       0.0     0.3      1.5       20
Technical assistance:
Specialists and fellowships    2.1        0.4    14.2    16.7        85
Local training                 23.8       0.0    18.5    41.5        45
Studies                         0.9       0.0     0.9      1.8       50
Salaries and honoraria            1.2       0.0     0.0      1.2        0
Capitalized front-end fee         0.0       0.0     0.2      0.2      100
Unallocated                       3.1       0.0     4.6      7.7       60
Total                      51.5       0.4    78.0   129.9        60



- 17 -
Recurrent Costs
46.       The incremental recurrent expenditures actually generated by the
project are estimated at about US$0.2 million equivalent per year by October
1981 (in April 1984 prices). This represents about 0.01Z of the projected
total education sector budget - development and routine. The amount is
negligible because the project is not expanding the number of operating units
except for the Teachers Centers and these are managed by the headmasters of
the schools at which they are located, under the supervision of the Provincial
Education Offices. The type of school science equipment to be procured will
be relatively simple; most of the maintenance of this equipment will be
undertaken in the equipment repair facilities in 64 of the Teachers Centers
(para. 30). The examination system being developed would be self-financing
from the fees charged to parents or exam candidates. The operating costs of
secondary teacher inservice training and MEC management training would end
with the completion of these two programs.
Procurement
47.       Contracts for construction of:  (a) the Examinations Center building,
and (b) the combined science equipment warehouse and prototype development
workshop in Jakarta (estimated at about US$4.5 million and US$1.1 million
equivalent respectively, including contingencies) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts for the construction of the 190 Teachers Centers -
which would be too small and geographically disbursed to attract foreign
competition - would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Equipment and furniture would be
grouped to the extent practicable to form attractive bid packages. Packages
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis
of ICB. In the comparison of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to 15Z of c.i.f. costs of competing imports, or the
customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment and furniture items which cannot
be grouped to form bid packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded on the basis of LCB, under government procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate total value not exceeding
US$4.5 million equivalent (about 10Z of the total estimated value of equipment
and furniture, including contingencies). Miscellaneous equipment items in
packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, and subject to an aggregate total
of US$1.0 million, could be purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least
three price quotations. Instructional materials and books would be procured
chrough direct purchase after negotiations for discounts. Prior Bank review
of contract award recommendations would be required for all contracts awarded
on the basis of ICB, estimated to cost a total of about US$46 million for
civil works, equipment and furniture. (Annex 8, Table 4 provides a breakdown
of project expenditures by procurement category).
Maintenance
48.       Earlier Bank-financed education and training facilities have been
well-maintained. The Government generally provides an adequate annual budget
for maintenance of physical facilities. Assurances were obtained at



- 18 -
negotiations that the Government wouLd allocate sufficient funds for the
maintenance of the training facilities constructed under the project.
Disbursements
49.       The proposed loan of US$78.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of four years (Annex 8, Table 5). Disbursements would be made
on the basis of: (a) 252 of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 100X of
the foreign costs of directly imported equipment and furniture and of the
ex-factory costs of locally manufactured equipment and furniture and 85% of
the costs of locally procured equipment and furniture; (c) 100% of the total
costs of consultants' and professional services, overseas training and
studies; and (d) 50% of the total costs of local training. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in an amount of
US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of
the proceeds of the loan. Disbursements for local training and construction
of the Teachers Centers (including professional services and locally procured
furniture) would be against statements of expenditure based upon agreed unit
costs and verified by the project management entities. Supporting documents
would be retained by DIKMENUM and made available for review as requested by
visiting Bank missions. In a comparison of disbursements for the proposed
project with regional disbursement profiles, the four-year disbursement period
is about half the average for past education projects as there would be
relatively little major construction under the project and implementation has
already begun.
Auditing and Reporting
50.       The three project management entities would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project expenditures. Accounts would be maintained
in accordance with sound accounting practices. Auditing would be performed by
an auditor satisfactory to the Bank and annual audit reports would be sent to
the Bank within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Six
months after the Closing Date, the chairman of the steering committee would
submit a project completion report to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from
the Government at negotiations that it would comply with these review and
reporting requirements.
Benefits and Risks
51.       The main benefit of the proposed project would be to improve the
quality of general secondary education particularly in three difficult subject
areas - science, mathematics and English. By the end of the project 42,000
teachers would have received inservice training in these subject areas, the
capacity of local manufacturers to produce quality science equipment would
have been enhanced, about 8,200 public and private secondary schools would
have been supplied with science equipment sets and the science equipment
distribution system would have been strengthened. In addition, the emerging
national examinations system would have been enhanced by an infusion of
resources into the MEC's Examinations Center. About 250 senior MEC officials
would have undergone degree training in professional management and planning
skills with which to increase efficiency in MEC operations. The net result



- 19 -
would be to improve MEC's overall capacity, in particular to meet the
challenges posed by the growth of secondary education.
52.       Because this would be the first Bank-financed project in DIKMENUM
and the Examinations Center, there is a risk of some delays in implementa-
tion. To meet this possibility, the project would include a cost-sharing
arrangement with UNDP to provide technical assistance in project management
with a view to creating in these units of MEC an efficient project management
capability.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
53.       At negotiations the Covernment provided assurances that:
(a) staff for the additional positions being established in the
Examinations Center would be appointed in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 36);
(b) the sites for the Examinations Center and other project facilities
would be acquired by March 31, 1985 (para. 36);
(c) the education sector training needs assessment and the education
sector management study would be implemented according to terms of
reference agreed with the Bank and the results of the assessment and
the management study would be furnished to the Bank by December 31,
1985, and December 31, 1986, respectively (para. 37);
Cd) accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound practices and
annual audits would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year (para. 50).
54.       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$78.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Indonesia at the standard variable rate, for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of five years.



Supebdw.24. 2986
I~~~~~~CUA
ONCS  CTO C4210       r      AP                RATE gm              UNIT 003? FancUs10
GOP £33S  mataI                     WUWMISS  LITvAa0 FR-318*1? £813487    PRIP1417  ?313A37          g   AEW83  6OOPArU  S30NMAW  11033R
33.98  VW3. CAPit   PUENIE CUP TOTNL EUPR   AZZMITEA28 TO: RATE    33UR.L. sCOCI.    310.3219    CAIIO. £3131487To  38311.  81U33018  VL-.
TEARt WILLS. C03)  03e003  v0                   P111ner  R   SZC  ElI   (73    RATIO  0.x   PM3      AS PENEN SEOCfDAAT   RATIO        93         RATIO
(1979) (1979)   z300aT119   62311Um             (2)       (3976)  (33         CZ)     TRACM   CIMP/CAPITA      (I)        CZ)     TEAOh3a      CZ)
(1)     (2)       (3)           (4)           (3           6)       7        ()        ()         (10)        (31         CR2)      (33     (14)
AOSTXALIA          80    14.46  B.470     &.3A        14.6       -     -     -     -         02      Soo         21       -            9973                  13      20.90
0.3*0A,           61    23.76  9.650b    7..7C        33.5'      30.? 3467 23*?  99b        1043     100         21       19.88?      300          92K      iS       22A0"
CENUNTa V.3.       79    61.2  12.200     L6           9.9).      -    -    -       9b       a"K    100-                               too10-      94.      -        12.10.
solU28A3DS3        7     14.0  ID.490     7.9          5.1       20   3S   25      99b?      96       95          s1      13.3         99          5        13       I2.A0
WM 284L630       no      3.2b  6.O6jb    33-         13-A       37   31   23      99b      100      100        24        11.6        zoo          az       15      23.6011
SLIMON79             8.3  12.230      *.0        18.-2       31   10   t0       9b      99K     1oo         lea      19.9         300         79K       30Ow    36.3047
R-ASTZ AFRCA
303334.34                 0.8b    720b    6.3p        19.3       48   23   is      336       94       74         32       22.13        33-         20       38        1.50
ONES          *I8    4.2     235      2.36.      19.0        43   23   27      25       29K      33         37       20.2          32          3.       17       1.00
con          ~so     0.46    260      6.94       25.4        40   2lb  i4      -        99K      4          43       16.0          38         21K       30       1.40
3218032           34      0.4     480     8.0         13.9       73   26   ...    10         42       44         40       67.0         40          10       19       0."0
ETHIOPiA           II    32.6    1406    2.99P        38.7       45   25   20      53        42       23.        63       19.3         93           4                O4AS4
IUTA              79    13.3      39      5.9K        38.06      71   IS   14      43        92       74         40       15.4         41          19       23        l.13
LZNOM              62     jAb    4D5b    3.5          IA.'        38   32   26      336     116K      41         48        9.4         46          21       21        1-30
P*IA.9CLWAR        77     8.3     330     4-39        24.0        53   23   19     s0        4&bz     33         33         .0          361        34       25        310%?
8AIAUI            a1      6.16    2506    3.5         11.4        38   14   23     25b       62       23         63        3.3          32          &       23       0.40
*1631T2u          so      0..9b  1.060b    4. 0       13.3       39   40    7      so        87       78         226      17.3         79          45K,   23         0O40
RUAWA             s0      5.0b    2006    3.2         21.3        62   17   it     236       37K      32         443      14.0          6            .      1 3       0DA0
W0cpn.2813        O9       A    1.770     5.8         22.4.      34K  33K  Joe      -        -                   25        -    -            -              -       -
413181.14         81    m63       280     1.3         10.5         0   44b   Gb    Sob      326       Wib        2b        9.06        .6          12       22        1.130
3038              so    19.2b    3606    3.0          -          6439    ..,    32           51ez     Go         34        1.4        4            16       16
S3XZIIAU          no      0.6     740     7.9         13.8       4.1  34   Is      656       79        o3        34       11.2         98          176      1V       2.50
TANZANIA.         s0    1M.       210      3.9        17.7       47   30   16      796       986      67         43       11.0         396          3        we      0.30
OCR"".            so    12.4b    3006    -            16.3K       23b  376  206    Gm        34K      61         34L      -             17          S       23       0DA0
?AXIN             73    27.3      2103    4.0-        22.0       49   26   23      13        347      4          42K      -            41          33K      27        1.106,r
Zoo"I             go      5.7b    S&P     4-Sp        11.1       493  23   22      446       9        so8        43       12.9         I9          16       22        1.50
2286353           Al      7.76    7006    3.1         19.5       62   32    6      446b      90       33         3        213.0        83          is       23       0.50
31311              79     3.Ab    3206    6.394       35.0       4L3  21    5    1ib         42       In         46       14.0         30          11       43        1.00
AR14 PASO        83      6.3     210'   2.1'         21.7       43   29   Zs      9         14       25        37        24.3         16           3       24       0.03
CAISSOO            73     8.2     390     2.94        14.07      33. 433K  20.  -            747      434        S0Y      11.6*,       20.         147      26        1.--0.
0.6.3             79      2.2     280     3.6K?       20.60v     -                                               GU -  -  -      -                                    05v --      .70.y
CUD3              76      4.4     120     2.A7wm      21.76         -- -1         I3         257      -          77       -            -            3K7     21       .130w
coom          76     1.3     670      9.C-7      27.7..       -     -              -         -              3467     -             30         -        436.    4.0
08800             77  0.6  3.420  3.76,    0.47    -  --   -                                 -        -          464v   -              -           -        1967  2.40..
041314A            77     0.6     220      3.3w        4.36       46   234   8'  job         6067     90'        27b,    44.76         40          126Kv    17       -
GI8I4             76    11.3    400       4.13        13.5b      -    -    -      -          71L37    -          2767     -            -           3~60-    21         -
CODmA              79      .3     2903    4.6.3       -           23K  28*  23.  20          34       36         38       20.O.P       as          14       29       7.00.
11037 0063?.      RI    J8.26  I 070.  10.0           43.0       33   46   1 3    306       60        36        43        26.0         47          1 4K?    26       1.90..
L.1633A           80      1.9     520     4.6         19.6       43   23   24    30          32       32         33       20.0         76          22       20       2.910
34ILI            a81      7.06    190     4.24        21.7.      38   21   1 1    10 a        0       g0o       4         13.7         66           1       1 1      0.90..
MWItRTA3IA        76      j.6b    3206    3.3         16.'       33   43   23    176         32       60        44         2.0         30           9       25       0317
31033             73      3.2     300     4.3*y       16.6ev      U2s 43.   Se    S          17       56-       41'       38.7.        44)       -          266      0.2,V
NIWIAu             77    32.6     910     4.37         9.4                         -          -        -         -         -                       13K      23       0.J77
31E1.M           77      5.3     430     3.0         23.0       46   34   20    10          346K7    -         4367                   20          IC       23       2.2067
3imA Lo=          77      3.4     230     4.Ob        16.06      -    -    -      136        3711     -          35       23.06        84          1        22       0.606.
7000              70      2.4    400      6.3gw       26.3*      23. 28. 21.  18             74.      40         3467     28.0         52          326.7   436        lAO0by
LATIN M1121CA AID 2UZ 04313314
AW.95W.LA&        is    21.3   Z.210      2.7         10.9       43. 31a  1lk   936          89       32         17       -            87          31        8      23.00
BANALI            79     0.2   2.770      3.7         19.1        28 36  1!       936       9         97        24       -             97          73       19      -
3632*A0           18      0.2   2.680     a --AY      22.1'      43.  31a  16.  996         1007      ISM       273       19.94        99K         787      207     -
OaLIVIA           80     3.4     330      4.167      23.3.       -    -    -      63        747      -          207      -             -          167      -        12.40
IIMAZU.           79   116.3   1.770      3.6          6.2       31   -    14    76         73.7      -         23.7       4-36        63'         1347     14'?   12.62b
CRmLE              76    10.9  1I690      3.267       13.06      -    -    -      -         1196*7    -          3467           -                  33b87    2067    11.9067
001.1321          80    26.76  1.3806b   3.3          23.0       35   20   20    816         73       36        32         6.6         -           47       20      10.02.7
COSTA RICA,       80      2.26  1.610b    8.4         31.1       40   27   33    90          93       77         33        3.5         77          40       27      14.00
con4              76      9.8     -       3.0         11.0       -    -    -      96        1126.7   98          3367     -            96          716K?    is      19.0267
301113104.3W.    80    533   1.030        2.9         13.0       33   21   22    886         80       31         39        3.2         94          30       33       16.00
300610            s0      8.44  1.310     6.03        36.7       AS   31   16   03          103       -         36        12.6         86          4?       II      29.13
Cl. 312341C       77      4.4     640     3.4b7       23.167r    64    8   27    62         82411    32         39        -            41          266.7    2794     7.90b7
CgR471381.         78     6.4   1,010      1.7.Y      12.66         -    -        -          69buY    -          33b7     -            69          l56b7    1967     3.307
GUraNA             76     0.6     623      8.1by      13.867     -    -    -      -          99bay    -          3267     -            -           396K     -         3.,067y
RAMT              80      5.06    230     3.4.         7.947     63    9    6    236         so       20        41        19.0         62'          44      27       13.60
unuxazv           78      3.6     320     3.3617      14.367y    62.  1sm  1sm  60           89b.Y    300        41by     12.8.        66.         213?     19       g.007
JAMMICh6          8o      2.1   1.310     6.3         13.7       37   43   20    90          9         8        40         2.3         93          81       22       8.00
pUII0             30    63.3   388 am     47          17.04      46  39  13       92        98        533       4          9.3         86          36       17      10.30
NICARAGA          79      2.66   930b     3.0b.       14.36      -    -    -      906       836Km    24         376       -            -           266K     3136 
06A494             7      1.8b  1.3306    3.36w7      21.0117    42K  13. 13    826          9367     -         2367      11.6         R3.         30b8     267     2.46
9A331AT           79      3.0 1.140       1.4'        14.2       4217 20    84               3        32        Zs         3.1'        74          22       12       0.70
PM            so~8   16'.4   1.000    3.6        14.3       5331319    P0               33       34         39        9.8         8939                 22       14.407
2316136D 4 102.  77       1.1   3.910      4.867       S.Sby     48   32   20    95          98       91         30       10.3?        49          62       24      -
UxAY               78     2.9   2._00     2.3          9*46b     -    -    -      94        1o3bR     -          246      -            -           644K     -       17.80ev
TEMCZIMA      7y    14.    3*44LO     3.lp       10.96       -    -    -     82        106611    -          Z6       -            -           364K     17       21.1or



_ AVO-  A                                                                            1
anU ECAuTZoU  8EcuDW        ADULT            PAXE FM             UII 0sF 1800620510
cwr Pat            AS rMtCwrr auni              LlTuA~ PEDI.!? maavLO    PRLAwt  Uaim           a     'tw'  SJEUDM' Sw0IAUL RIMER
BASE  POP. CAPIT  PuRCE'S CUP TOTAL WYZTAL              20: SAlE    ZNUW.iL. SeemO      SOKIDUIFI  7OIWP165  0  381FAL.  QIODs  £58011.
TZA    U.LS. (am)1  0oTprr T0 Iaoeamor    p   sac ml    CZ)    EATTO  crczz   z F                                     PNr r306   ATW  NW  mmAro
(1979) (1979)   oclATIOU jW!11U33o           (13        0976)   (1)        (1)    T301A      87CAIT        (13        CZ)   TIARrii      (23
(3)     (2)       (3)          ('3         (5)          (6)      (7)      (a)       (9)       C1O)        (II3 )     (12)      (53)   (16)
EAWT ASIAAND 7Q 11  AtFIC
cum8 1  9~6.1    3206   3l                           8.3       34  29   27      Gb       so       63        23        7.0         72         38       1 7      3.7D
INuINESLA        81   150.3b    320      2.1         9.3       70  26    6    326        98       61        37       11.0         74         27       26       3.70
IDWZA  ~     82    39.3b  1.6366    7.7v       20.8       34   3'  31    96         4993                         19..0       98                   38      23.80
MDLAA?31          RI    16.2b  1.7886    1.2        22.0       32- 37. 13.,   GM6        9fief    97        22       12.-V        87         658      19       3.70.
PAPUA NC.        RI    3.06   8a"        5.4        19.0   CU       17  22       -       60       73        31.       M O         35        t13       27.      300
pfzurnPFDIS       79    48.36    6906    2.6 10.0              66   36o.-    756         96      AS         31        7.1         89         Ss       36      23.00
sIJcAPm           MO     2.6   4.620     2.7         6.7       39  40   16    83         92       82        31        8.8         96         53       22       8.80
SoLOaNm "L3.     s0      0.2    480      6.21"-     10.0.      41   36  20    -          G0       80        26.      -            35         JR       -       -
LUA              80    473b2  723D   3.6            20.9        9   3s  13  2 b          96       -         17        9I3          94                 22        93_7D
SUTiu ASIA
.a32   B          79    92l39b    7       Ip   2 0.1C7         31St  17  20    22D       637      -         33        3.6                    I6       23      15.3
1                 80     1.2      80     3.6        13.0 2        -             3 40     12       -         -        -                                         3_7D
hUlA -           77  639.4    210        2.97        %.WY'     -   -    -       36       79.      -         631            -                 Zan       -       S3oay
rIPAL            82    13S6b   130b    1 .L        -           -2 S                      70       -         38       -            1i                  23       3x701
PAKISTAN          79    79.7    2760b   Z            3.1       39  26   27    26 s5b              8         A8 633 7I                         0S      367   620O
UNIONS. NIODEX EAST AMD 81082 APRICA
AP5RANISTAI       77    13.5     -       3.7         3.7       47  39  13    12          *2b      46        37b      -            62          55       nt      Iffoo
A1423R8           7     183   1.770      3.8.       12.3       30. 26. 20.   35          83,      65.       37        7.0D        35. 287             26 3-707
YTD              82    43.30   6730   .4            2 7.9      31n  356  26 43           7        Aft       36A       9.8.        83. 539              3.    17.*I
GXE=              797    0J3  9.140      2.66,      10.6       37  26   21    22         97b 6    -         296       6.2?        -          796.    27DW   17_ b1
IRAN             79    32.9      -       5-787      1-.107     -     -    -     s0      102.2     -         32_ -                  -A"                24       6.90.7
ZRA              79    12.6  2.710  2.3.7            6.9.,    -    -   -        -       3007      -         2s             -                 6567    29.       9-t30y
IREA3181     3.66  4.480            6.3a.7     1 3.847    -   -     -      98       93       96        29       -            96         SI        16      11.00
IOCLEa            81     2.26  1.6206    6.96       10.2       19  6     18    706 _05            83        32        7.2         91         821      25      1OA0
L53AI             79     2.3     -      -           18.4987            -                 84 -               1A   9   -            -          "a3      -       27-80.7
p           Iso8   10.3    740      6.302s      17.T      3   46   20    23          567       5 3      39       19.7         46        23        22       6.50
066.5             82     Oohb'S.920b    2.5..'      12.7.       - -      -      306?i    71z      65        25       -            86         11       16       .
PORIDUAL         78      9.86  2.060     3.6        22.2       50  26 11        78       97       20        19.      12.8 82 631                      37.      8.301
89AU;QL           78    2241  2.100      3.97        6.27      -    -    -      96       066      -         237      -            90t   556           226     10.6567
SPAIN             76    37.0  4.920      2.1y       10JY       -   -    -        -        8b6     -         291      -            -          676,    -        2z.176
SINIA            78      8.6   1.170    4.6P        10.3       39   25 2-      38        87lO     s0        352      -            GO         616.    21h      12.60
21310            79     12 6.6   1.130   7.OP       19.0       42   39  16    42b.    10-5        80        39       12.8         30         302      30       6.00
TOIy              a1      7b  1.406    3.1         26.2       -    -    -      756     113.      90.       28        7.9         St         38       20       6.70
10.W 3            80s    6.8    620      3.01,      12.0       96    7    7    216       37       126       387      67.0         a5          3       21      1*_0
TriPm  P.. 1. 82         2.*     6 20b   7.5         9.7       63. 1_4  _       303      61       36        25       22.0-        47                  20       2.50
8ber of Canneries:                                   941     70  69   67    76       -          - 6       94      8fi2          72         91       AG      As
eaw_           J6    37D *.920         1.6-          3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-   (8-    c1s-       (12-       (17      11.-         (6-        (2-      (_-   20.01-
30.0)        £3.01)  94)  46) 36)    99)       110) 9)             77)      67.0)        00)        84)      48)    26.0)
0AreIlee:  7p.er.,                     5.6       210.        32   35  21    an         06       79        62       20           as         as       25      10.6
Meln.:             43.0P                 1.5      43 271I           2       83       60        33       12           61         25       21       3.7
Innerl                      3.0          10.5     37_ 8   13    26          56       35        27        7           60         31       38       1.0
1.1rtll.        00w. 6tJon:            1.3 2.1    7.1  9.0  6.0   23.0    20.5    22.3                   7.3     4LA          22.5       15.5      8.2       4.8
_ae.:                                  4.5          26.      6    28   IN    53        75       60        36   U 6              40         31       21       6.9
stodrd Dll   aclonr                    1.6           7.2    13  10    7       30       26       25        *2       13           27         23        7       7.6
Nadine:                                4.0          13.5     43  28   19    53         83       61        3S       12           61         23       22       3.7
53301.S:                                                  101028:   I - 7.STI'96T   U TEN ABNCE 0  CENCUS DATA
-    DA3  DAAILCA                                           A - DA0M3 Pa07 5  E5 ASE                          5 - MIUIST- T OP UlATOU (ME3) 0NL.
...  UINITDC  IL 0  SELCIL                                 3 - 0A13 POPE 859r TEM BASE TZAft                 T - ME92 AND STATE GOV   IT  OIILT
7 ARM  45r A8L                                            i - 01813rr  cICS                                 V - PuIC  ZnoITI  m1L?
0I.aS1    PAY31Tfl8  STUDENT S                         P  CD                                             X -  NCLUIDES O083-ACF 311121TS
I - 038306 S0OUN2
500.M9S                                                                                                                  Z- L..3  SE06UIAE? 0.LT
COlnW  I 6.  2: 16.Wd VAM6 ACton or 10 "lD n ainen.
Colemn 3 to 1£: 1380 .1..1...   ramr-nat .nrce- and/or toe.. Sttl. cleal Tr.zbook.
Co87pr.t1.. Zdacaleo D.a. am n.ful tn 11, roul"tiloo. of  rto_m eduoctlon .7.t.0m 6_ mos.1-v. of relatlv e  tPe of .dec.tloaal deneent h.1n'..  "rIon.
C8c,tleaB.       , r.an rth  b-1. if t6. praesnt deta. crto_-ntonl bo_ar1eo  ahod he appr.dehd with Grate  conloa. Dat. oreneure, 1. the above table h1re
ba98  collocted largely by Book  l.1le_1     fron oernnm *o6c Ch  rathe   da-Tdr am  taIf 6s8118618  or date fron Ih-ce. 'fSort. h.w ha.. eda to *acdardie
delintions and. .6chin. tirs. to chrck the ccbor.cy of the c-t..  peourt1allem. anch datare celli inorfltcl In soral reapet. a.d the Bonk 1. working to
I_rn., thee orogr_elnoly on thee -esion  f it. opwratcol work. In the n_, e! tl_ea data. the followix qualiff"tlem, mheld be kept La 6dn4:
(1)   Sducatioo a- defined in cth  table includes *LI educAtcon and tralnlan. both forma .0 nOW-fOrRal.
(2)   Prlnar adcatlo. refr,. to edcatono at the flr.  le.el a1nd  esry- adcAtt               rfe r. co all educatlon at the secondary Ieu1i regerdle_ of ort
(e.g.. General. technical. agrlcnltltl).
(3)   Literacy rate- (el. 6) are often obtained frm  courr cam..  In noy cow,criee thy are onlye__ 1- close And it is  obetfnl that a7 elor-
definition of -lterrA  baa baen folleed cnalate_tly.
(I)   Pnblie anpeadItore In eduction- (Colo. A and 5) refes. tO *11 e pitel r60 recrrrent ezpendrtwre. doted to bedcatio  by pubic nd eMA      ne-blic
(5)  arell_ne rcatio- (Ceol. 7. 12 and 14) refer to sdcool ye.r and are ta percentage of elibla children srdlled frl_-tIne in tlh appropriate adool.
peblc and pri.ate by lerel-  Ihy are oft.. abiecS to a  ide  nroin of error  In the dn_ loping countrlen oew to narlatia. In the acceracy of bets
dat- (S_.. o   -ap ic popleecto and envoll_nct). Earollaent fIgrna freqeamly are higher than che _ber of tcaude- actually la achool. 0O_r-aed
atICIn show. Inclalon 1is Iadiceted 67 footnotee A1m cAn inflate cte ratio.



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Educatlon Shucture, 1984
Showing Wodd Bank Group Flnonclal Asslstonce to Dote
1     2      3     A     5      6            7     S      910    11   Q1                                   13    14   IS    16               11   Is           19    20   21
I       I   t            I        Il                       -I                                               t  1   1 1 1     I t I           I     l-    -      I     1- 
9 q   o     11    12           13    1      is            16    17    to                      19    20    21    22              23    24           2S     6    27
YDmf  OIUCAIrON                     LOaR UCONOA*V              UPPIf R 4CONDARY                                              GHt  UCAWN
IlUCADON                  fOUCArKoN
rMn* 51 (51o)         I 52 (Poea S3 (Fh D)
o~~~~~KP (10OCtWhM INWN
Sch ocl9)                                Peel' 
Legend~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
leg                                                          j  lochUl School (SPM)                           
*   fnrP& n                                                  11       111                
Int,onco bonar'atcr.I
*   Sc"Atoco v'bi*Exalfati
° Deooo 1f3gE}o
o     tlbeblo                                                           (SFG) D
- --  bon llnos Ive boon                              .      l  10 _  _     12
F ~tiOh D  CO
AVsv tw ScWood pk       L         _  _ _ J
C      omd o Ewtn w
Ir fUla  _VK                           1Olrahshot SCol                                                        Textbook DrmrI 
n rn z bscl _ _ . _ { Sld~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tuto -i Rie dAblic A *Wab IVM
Scho cs                              _                             L s_f_T___ P-ml-tre 01 "-e ws-)e
DE_DiD_0- _ ____ __ _  _                                                                                                                                             l
L    cc -----------4EW' Ce-tets                                                                                  I
§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I} J
L________ wI]25



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Organization of the Mlnistry of Educotlon and Culture
|Ministry dof
inspc|ciotato  CuScoli7 Conuots
omatIGonofal                                  l D ove                                Orco        a            I
.        .      |                      l                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fell   lp
8 nslvOcifianto                     Contol d            CotirO NornrOIrnOo _                             dLica.
TIrrining Unit
Gooerol Smcondmry            DiOctaoI|cos                  4 Diroctowes                                       4 Diroclcaotes                                5 Directofotes
Educatior
Provncial Oftices
Ministry of EducOflionWod  ak-64
& Cultutre                                                                     World Bnk-2U7
IN



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Organization of the Directorate of General Secondary Educotion
|Droctorato of
Goneroal Socondary
Education
n s- -|Amnsratu 
of Jun  Go l                                               Sub-irectorate             Sub-Dirctorate
Ctrltlm      Curriculum                    Curriulum                               DaaCloJo
Toaching Staff             Teaching Staff                 Teaching Staff          Secondary Educatin
.          ~~~~Monitoring
Focilities &               Focilities &  1                Focilitis &        2      nkx General
Intrastiucture             Infrostrucluro                 InfrostrutuCo   |      Secondary Education
School                     School                         Schoo l                  Innovatin
Administration             Administration   J             Administration              Monitaolng
Wodd Bank-26348                         w  I



-25-                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Secondary Education Action Programs
1.        At the conclusion of the World Bank staff subsector study on
secondary education (Report No. 4954-IND, March 15, 1984) a set of action
programs to improve quality and equity and to mobilize additional resources
was proposed in summary form, based on the preceding analysis. The financial
implications of these programs to the Government, including and excluding cost
recovery measures, were then weighed against projected Government expenditures
for secondary education without the programs.
Three Specific Action Programs
2.        Quality Action Program
(a) Expand the in-service, on-service science and mathematics teacher
training program to include English language, and give particular
emphasis to rural areas. Build rural teachers centers to strengthen
the program.
Cb)  Provide SMPs and SMAs which have at least two parallel streams with
science laboratories and libraries and related equipment, with
particular emphasis on private schools.
Cc) Develop a system of national school leaving examinations which ranks
candidates for selection to further education, monitors school
quality, and provides schools and supervisors with feedback of
"incentive" and "guidance" information. Create a National Examina-
tions Center to lead this institution building process, by
strengthening the Ministry of Education Center for Examinations.
Arrange externaL examinations at the end of each cycle as follows:
Ci) SD: set by the province (kanwil); conducted, marked, analyzed
and reported by the district (kabupaten) education authorities.
(ii) SMP: set centrally by the Center in close cooperation with the
Directorate of General Secondary Education; conducted, marked,
analyzed, and reported by the provinces.
(iii) SMA: set, marked, analyzed and reported centrally by the
National Examinations Center.
(d) Reduce SMP/SMA teacher double shifting by increasing teacher supply
for both private and public schools.



-26 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
Ce)  Conduct a study to determine optimal wage scale for public school
teachers, using comparisons with private sector with objective of
reducing incentive to "multi-job," and eliminating "piecework" as
basis for salary supplementation.
3.        Equity Action Program
(a) Allocate available capital funds for SMP and SMA expansion initially
to those provinces which are both most severely underrepresented in
enrollment and most underprovided with classroom facilities relative
to demand (enrollment), up to the point where they catch up to the
next-most underrepresented provinces; follow the same "bump-up" pro-
cedure with the two most underrepresented provinces jointly; and so
forth until the budget allocation is fully committed. Within each
of these provinces apply the bump-up principle to kabupatens; and
with each kabupaten chosen accordingly, apply the same principle to
the subdistricts (kecematans), etc. The use of this allocation
procedure could by 1989/90 reduce the existing Gini coefficients for
SMP and SHA dramatically from 0.146 and 0.215 to 0.009 and 0.023
respectively.
(b) Extend opportunities for qualified candidates to enter high quality
SMPs and SMAs by enlarging the geographic area in which common exam-
inations are conducted.
(c) Enlarge the opportunities for qualified candidates to enter PP1
universities by staging the PP1 examination at many locations, not
just at the PP1 universities themselves.
(d) Extend the coverage of the school map over more rural areas, by
adopting the minimum economic size school as the norm for school
size. Retain double shift use of facilities in urban areas in order
to minimize new urban school construction until the rural school map
has been filled in, thereby offsetting the extra cost.
4.        Resource Mobilization Program
(a) Maintain level of SPP fee income in real terms by adjusting fee
schedule annually for inflation.
(b) Allow schools to retain portion of SPP income to use for own
budgeted purposes, as incentive to schools to raise their own fees.
(c) Establish means-tested nil-fee system for very low income family
students who qualify for admission to public SMP or SMA so that they
are exempted from the SPP fees.
(d) Channel maximum portion of capital budget for general secondary
education through grants-in-aid to "private," i.e., community
schools in targeted kabupaten and kecematan. The communities would
be required to raise 15% of capital costs which the Government would
Itmatch" with the remaining 85%.



- 27 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 3
(e) Reallocate excess SPG facilities to use as SMAs as demand for new
primary teachers falls rapidly early in Repelita IV, and remains low
through Repelita V.
(f) Prepare physical facilities inventory province by province as basis
for providing grants for adding new facilities at existing,
incomplete public and private SMPs and SMAs.
5.        Underlying these action programs is an assumption that secondary
generaL education will continue to grow.  It will be necessary to accommodate
the enrollment growth in Repelita IV by constructing about 54,000 SHP class-
rooms plus related laboratories, libraries, staffrooms, etc., and 47,000 SMA
classrooms plus related laboratories, Libraries, staffrooms, etc. On an
average annual basis, this means constructing about 20,000 new classrooms plus
about 5,000 related specialized rooms or the equivalent of about 2,000 new
schools per year. Continued extensive use of double shifting would reduce
these quantities. Based on the most recent trends, enrollments in public and
private SMAs will expand from 1.3 million students, or 14Z of 16-18 year olds,
in 1981/82 to between 3.0 and 3.6 million or 32Z-38Z at the end of Repelita
IV, 1988/89. Based on most recent trends, total public and private SMP
enrollments will expand from 3.7 million students, or 37% of the 13-15 age
group in 1981/82, to between 7.3 and 7.6 million students or 58Z-60Z of the
age group at the end of Repelita IV in 1988/89.
Budgetary Implications of the Action Program
6.        How much would the implementation of the proposed action program
cost the Government? The projected costs of the various quality-improving and
equity-enhancing programs identified in paras. 2 to 4 are summarized in
Table 1. The table shows these costs for 1984/85 and 1993/94, the first and
tenth years respectively of Repelita IV and V. In addition, the Government's
annual education sector budget, by levels of education, has been projected
forward through 1993/94, the last year of Repelita V. This projection is
based on a straight-line extrapolation of the Government's own enrollment
forecasts for Repelita IV. Let us first turn to the costs of the action
program before looking at their impact on the projected government budget as
the base.
7.        The components of che secondary education action program which bring
the heaviest additional recurrent budget outlays are an increased level of
provision of classroom materials, a 5Z p.a. real increase in teachers
salaries, and the replacement of science laboratory and library equipment
every seven years. The added recurrent costs of these and other actions are
slightly offset by an effort to recover some costs by an increase in school
SPP fees, which in turn is partly offset by a nil-fee scheme for students from
poor families. On the other hand, the capital expenditure side of the action
program will actually help introduce some savings to the government budget
rather than add to the budgetary burden. This budget savings is due in part
to slower enrollment expansion forecast in the outer years. But in addition



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 1: BREAKDOWN OF SECONDARY EDUCATION ACTION PROGRAM
COSTS IN 1984/85 AND 1993/94
(Rps billion)
I.  Recurrent Budget Expenditure                 1984/85          1993/94
Increase teacher salaries                       29               94
Reduce double shifting                           0               14
Equipment replenishment                         35               74
(Laboratory and library)
Increase classroom materials                    57              116
Examination reform                               3                6
Nil-Fee scheme                                   6               12
Subtotal                                   130              316
Cost recovery:
Raise SPP schedule                           - 3               -6
Allow schools to raise SPP fees              -13              -22
Subtotal                                   -16              -28
Net cost                                     114              286 /a
II. Capital Budget Expenditure
Teacher improvements                             9                2
Private school facilities                       51               43
(Laboratories; libraries)
Private school equipment                        38               36
Examination development                          1                0
Subtotal                                    99               81
Cost recovery:
Converting excess SPGs to SMAs              - 1             -  4
Matching funds for coinmunity schools       -94              -102
Subtotal                                  -95             -106
Net cost (savings)                               3 /a          - 25
/a   Columns do not sum exactly due to rounding.



- 29 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 5
the program would (a) introduce local community fund-raising to partially
match future government school building grants; and (b) convert future excess
SPGs (primary teacher training high schools) to SMAs to reduce new school
building and increase capacity utilization. The budget savings from these
actions would more than offset the additional expenditure brought on by the
other proposed actions.
8.        The added cost of this action program to improve secondary school
quality and equity appears manageable. The Government's combined capital and
recurrent budget for secondary education is estimated at Rp 825 billion in
1983/84.  It would grow after ten years to:  Rp 1,490 billion without the
action program (6.1Z p.a.), or to Rp 1,751 billion with the entire action
program (7.8% p.a.). By 1993/94 the additional cost of the full action
program would be Rp 261 billion, requiring total secondary education
expenditures of Rp 1,751 billion; the latter would be 18% more than the base
budget of Rp 1,490 billion. The cost recovery features of the action program,
shown in Table 1, explain why the action program adds only modestly to the
projected growth of secondary education costs. However, if these cost
recovery features were to be deleted from the action program, its cost on the
government budget would rise from Rp 261 to 397 billion which would represent
27% instead of 18% of the base budget. By the same token, the ten-year annual
growth rate of the budget plus the partial action program would be not 7.8%,
but 8.6% p.a., which is a 50% increase over the 6.1% p.a. underlying growth
rate in the base budget.



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Projected Growth in General Secondary Enrollment, 1984/85-1994/95
Junior                         Senior
secondary      Enrollment      secondary    Enrollment
Repelita       Year       enrollment        ratio        enrollment      ratio
IV        1984/85        5,938,000         53          1,918,000      19.0
1988/89       6,604,000         53           3,046,000     26.3
V        1989/90        6,640,000         53          3,140,000      26.2
1993/94       6,365,000         49           2,977,000     23.6
VI        1994195        6,449,000         50          2,855,000      22.6
Source: Loan Request, Annexes I-2-2, I-2-4



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Supply of Teachers by Subject, 1983/84 - 1988/89
Science       Mathematics        English         Total
1983/84
SHP stock               26,460           26,460           21,168         74,088
SMA stock               16,216            9,352            7,637         33,205
Total                42,676           35,812           28.805        107,293
1984/85
SMP new                  5,246            5,246            4,197         14,689
SMA new                  2,476            1,428            1,166           5,070
Total                 7,722            6.674            5,363         19,759
1985/86
SMP new                  3,372            3,372            2,698          9,442
SMA new                  2,940            1,695            1,384          6,019
Total                 6,312            5,067            4,082          15,461
1986187
SMP new                  2,373            2,373            1,898          6,644
SMA new                  2,756            1,589            1,298          5,643
Total                 5,129            3,962            3,196         12,287
1987/88
SMP new                  1,065            1,065              852          2,982
SMA new                  4,254            2,453            2,003          8,710
Total                 5,319            3,518           2,855          11,692
1988/89
SMP new                  1,330            1,330            1,069          3,729
SMA new                  2,758            1,591            1,299          5,648
Total                 4,088            2,921            2,368          9,377
1983/84 - 1988/89
Total SMP               39,846           39,846           31,882         111,574
Total SMA               31,400           18,108           14,787         64,295
Total                71,246           57,954          46,669         175,869



-32 -                                                    NNE  5
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Planned Training of Key Teachers by Subject (PKG), 1984-89
July    Jan.   July   Jan.   July   Jan.   July   Jan.   July   Jan.
1984    1985   1985   1986   1986   1987   1987   1988   1989   1989
Semester:    1       2       1      2      1       2      1      2       1      2     Total
Science
No. of subgroups (ave. size 54)          20       19     14     14      8       8     -      -     -       -
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants             220      150    130    120      -       -     -      -     -       -        620
First-cycle participants              860     876    626    636    432    432       -      -     -       -      3,862
Total                            1,080   1,026    756    756    432    432       -      -     -       -      4,482
Mathematics
No. of subgroups (ave. size 30)          26       26     26     26      17     17     -      -     -       -
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants              93      141    126    108     45       -     -      -     -       -        513
FIrst-cycle participants              687     639    654    672    465    510       -      -     -       -      3,627
Total                              780     780    780    780    510    510       -      -     -       -      4140
English
No. of subprojects (ave. size 32)         -       -      13     13     26      26    26     26     3       3
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants               -       -       -    105    105    189   162      81    39      39        720
First-cycle participants                -       -    416    311    727    643   670    751    57        57      3,632
Total                                -       -    416    416    832    832   832    832    96        96      4.352
Total
No. of subgroups (116)                   46      45      53     53     51      51    26     26     3       3
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants             313     291    256    333    150    189   162       81    39      39      1,853
First-cycle participants            1,547   1,515  1,696  1,619  1,624  1,585   670    751    57        57     11,121
Total                            1,860   1.806  1,952  1,952  1,774  1,774   832    832    96       96      12,974



- 33-                                                      ANEX S
TWble 3
INDONESIA
SECONDlRY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Planned Improveunt of Teachers by Subject (SPCG). 1984-89
July  Jan.  July       Jan.   July   Jan.   July    Jan.   July    Jan.
1984   1985   1985     1986    1956    1987    1987    19U8   1988    1989
Semester:    1      2      1        2       1       2       1       2        1       2    Total
Science
No. of subgroups (ave. *tze 32)        116     160    190    216      240     240     240      240     240    240
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants          1,856   2,560  3,040   3,456   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840   33,952
First-cycle participants           1,856   2,560  3,040   3,456   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840.  33,952
Total                           3.712   5.120  6.080   6,91    7.680   7,680   7.680   7,680   7.680   7.680   67,904
Metbeu.tics
No. of subgroups (ave. size 24)         54      85    132     174     210     225     240      240     240     240
No. of participants
Second-cycle participantu            648   1,020  1,584   2.088   2,520   2,700   2,880   2,880   2,880   2,880   22.080
First-cycle partlepants             648   1,020  1,584   2,088   2,520   2,700   2,880   2,880   2,880   2,880   22,080
Total                           1.296   2,040  3.168   4,176   5.040   5,400   5760   5.760   S,760   5,760   44.160
English
No. of subprojects (ave. size 28)        -       -      -       -      35      70     133      187     214     227
No. of partlcipsnts
Second-cycle participants              -       -      -       -     490     980   1,862   2,618   2,996   3,178   12,124
First-cycle participants               -                      -     490     980   1,862   2.618   2,996   3,178   12,124
Total                               -       -      -       -     980   1,960   3.724   5,236   5.992   6.356   24,248
Total
No. of subgroups (84)                  170    245    322      390     485     535     613     667      694     707
No. of participants
Second-cycle participants          2,504   3,580  4,624   5,544   6,850   7,520   8,582   9,338   9,716   9,898   68,156
First-cycle participants           2,504   3,580  4.624   5,544   6,850   7,520   8,582   9,338   9,716   9,898   68,156
Total                           5,008   7,160  9,248  11,088  13,700  15,040  17,164  18,676  19,432  19,796  136,312



r   i    11
!1P1II3I1I i      'U                       a
L_ __ _______    .
r~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~--~~~   r I 
ti|49                               (DZ g| LjX3
-------                     
I          I 
._ _         _____   



-35-                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Management Training Program
1.  Aims
The short-term aim of this component is to improve the overall
management skills of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC). The
Long-term objective is to build up the institutional capacity of the Center
for Staff Training (PUSDIKLAT) and the Teacher Training Colleges (IKIPs) to
carry out this training. To do this an overseas fellowship program for senior
and mid-level staff is proposed which will provide:
1.1 Training for Master's and Doctoral candidates.
1.2 Short course training of 3-6 months duration.
1.3 Predeparture language training for both categories of candidates.
1.4 Orientation visits to identify recipient institutions outside
Indonesia.
1.5 Monitoring and evaluation visits by the project unit staff to the
recipient countries.
1.6 A management study of the key administrative areas of the MEC to
examine existing procedures, their weaknesses and to recommend
improvements.
1.7 A training needs assessment that will identify the positions and the
staff that should be assisted, the kind and duration of their
training and their career placement on return from training.
A total of 11 PhDs, 49 MAs and 198 short-term training courses are
envisaged over the three-year life of the Project (see Annex 8, Table 3,
Technical Assistance and Fellowships).
2.   Key Units to be Assisted
Key units to be assisted will include the eight bureaus of the
Secretary-General's office, the Inspectorate-General, the Secretary's offices
of the four Directorate-Generals (Higher Education; Primary and Secondary
Education; Non-formal Education, Youth and Sports; and Culture); PUSDIKLAT,
selected provincial offices (Kanwils) and IKIPs.



- 36 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.   Training
Training under this project will be divided into long- and
short-term:
3.1 Long-Term Training
Long-term training will be provided for 11 PhDs and 49 MAs. The
areas of study will include general planning, educational planning,
personnel management, financial management, management information
systems, organizational development, computer systems, budget
management and accounting. Requirements should include:
(a) PhD.
Educational Background. Either an MA from a recognized
overseas university or an MA degree (sarjana) from an
Indonesian university with already completed overseas training.
English. TOEFL test of 550 would be the minimal language
requirement if training is to be carried out in an English-
speaking country (or a similar level of language ability in
other countries).
_e.  Normally a maximum of 40 years of age.
Duration of training. Approximately 4 years.
(b) MA
Educational Background. MA degree from a local university. In
certain areas, a bachelor's degree may be acceptable.
English. TOEFL score of 550.
Age. Up to 45.
Duration of Training. Two years.
3.2 Short-Term Training
Length. One to six months in specialist courses that are designed
to develop specific/special skills of the trainees.
FieLds of Study. These will be related to the specific types of
training required in the different key units. They would include,
but would not be limited to, management, planning, educational
planning, financial management, audit, procurement, personnel
management, project management, logistics, equipment and materials,
administration and information systems.



- 37                              ANNEX 7
Page 3
Requirements. The candidate shouLd have a good knowledge of English
or other relevant foreign language with a bachelor's or MA degree
and be below 45 years of age (in some cases where special skilla
such as procurement, accounting or audit are required and the candi-
date already has appropriate work experience and a good knowledge of
the language of study, the degree and age requirements may be
waived).
4.   Project Organization
To provide support for this project two key units should be created:
4.1. Overseas Fellowship Committee
This committee will help in the identification and selection of
candidates and monitor their career placement on their return from
training. Committee members will, include representatives from the
Secretary-General's office, the Inspectorate-General, the
Secretary's offices of the four Directorate-Generals, and
PUSDIKLAT. Staff will work on a part-time basis. The committee
will meet regularly to review the activities of the Management
Training Unit (see below). One of the initial tasks of this
committee will be to visit countries most likely to provide
appropriate training to help identify suitable institutions and
courses. The committee will report to the Secretary-General.
4.2. Management Training Unit
This will be the key unit for administering and coordinating the
project. It will report to the Secretary-General on a day-to-day
basis and work with the various units of the MEC that are partici-
pating in the project. It will have eight regular staff members
(Diagram 1) including a director, a training officer and a finance
officer, who will be recruited from existing or retired MEC staff.
They should have backgrounds in administration, management and
training. The work of the unit will cover the following areas:
(a) Identification of candidates for long- and short-term training.
(b) Prov-ision (either in the NEC or through outside contracts) of
intensive/semi-intensive language training where required.
(c)  Placement of both short- and long-term candidates in
appropriate courses in selected countries.
(d) Visits to overseas countries to evaluate training programs, to
set up institutional arrangements for administration of
trainees and to identify appropriate courses.
(e) Visits throughout the life of the project to monitor the
progress of the students, to evaluate the training courses and
the work of the subcontracts for administering the training in



- 38 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 4
the selected countries.
(f) Placement of the returned trainees (working with the Bureau of
Personnel) to see that their training is fully utilized.
(g) Provision of support to the management study to be carried out
by the MEC (see the Terms of Reference for the management
study, below.
(h) Carrying out a training needs assessment of the units
identified in the MEC for management and planning training
support at the beginning of the project on which training
choices will be based. International and local consultants
will be used where required.
(i) Responsibility for the financial accounting of the project.
This will include reports to the Secretary-General and the
World Bank.
(j) Liaison with each unit in the MEC selected for training.
The placement of the Management Training Unit in the MEC is shown in
Annex 2, Chazrt 2.
5.  Overseas Management
The identification of suitable overseas courses and the placement
and administration of the trainees are of key importance in the successful
implementation of this project. Arrangements would be as follows (Diagram 2):
5.1 Field Officers. They should be identified in each country selected
for training and may be from the Indonesian Embassy staff or be
specifically contracted for. They would have overall responsibility
in each country for the training activities and trainees in that
country and would report to the Management Training Unit.
5.2 Subcontractors. Contractual arrangements either with an academic
institution, a government agency or a private company would be
negotiated to help in the placement and administration of
trainees. These would include retainer contracts.
6.   Technical Assistance
Technical assistance would be provided to support the Management
Training Unit and key bureaus/units in the MEC to satisfy the need for
immediate expertise and for building up the institutional capability of the
MEC units to carry out their tasks later on. This assistance would include:



- 39                               ANNEX 7
Page 5
6.1 A Training Specialist to work with the Management Training Unit and
the PUSDIKLAT.
6.2 A Personnel Management Specialist to work with the Bureau of
Personnel, Secretary-General's office.
6.3 A Planning Systems Specialist to work with the Planning Bureau in
the Secretary-General's office.
6.4 Short-Term Consultants (international and local) would be provided
where required during the life of the project. Additional
consultancy services would be provided to carry out the management
study.
Management Study-Ministry of Education and Culture
Terms of Reference
1.1       The management study wiLl examine the existing management systems in
che MEC and recommend improvements. The primary focus of the study will be on
the administrative components of the MEC which will include the Secretary-
General's office (Bureaus of Personnel, Planning, Finance Organization, Legal
Affairs, Foreign Cooperation, Procurement and General Services), the
Inspector-General's office, the administration section (Secretary's office)
only of each of the four Director-Generals (Primary and Secondary Education,
Higher Education, Culture, and Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports) and the
administration section of a selected few of the Ministry's provincial
offices. The study will cover all aspects of management including but not
limited to, planning systems, operational systems, personnel systems,
financial systems, procurement, auditing and control systems, and reporting
systems.
2.1       The study will focus specifically on analyzing existing systems and
making recommendations for improvements in:
(a) Existing planning systems. All units involved in short- and medium-
term planning both for the routine and development budgets should be
examined. Liaison between these units and the effectiveness of the
current system should be assessed as a basis for possible new
systems and information flows.
(b) Existing personnel systems. All units involved (particularly the
Personnel Bureau of the Secretary-General's office) in the
implementation of personnel policies. In particular staff
development, recruitment, promotion and remuneration systems should
be assessed.
(c) Budgeting systems. All units involved in the financial operations
of the MEC including budget preparation, implementation, and
reporting. This will cover both the routine and the development
budgets.



-40-                             ANNEX 7
Page 6
(d) Control. All units involved in monitoring, audit and evaluation of
the MEC's activities (whether financial or otherwise), specifically
the Inspectorate-General's office should be examined to suggest ways
of improving the present system.
(e) Organization. The units (particularly the Bureau of Organization,
Secretary-General's office) responsible for the organizational
structure of the MEC. The mechanism utilized for recommending and
implementing structural changes should be examined. The formulation
and use of Presidential, Ministerial and other decrees and letters
should also be assessed.
(f) Information flows. Information flows generally throughout the MEC
should be examined including all reporting procedures whether
financial or otherwise. The viability of using a centralized
information flow system (or individual subsystems in selected units
such as Personnel, Finance and Planning) including computerization
should be examined.
3.1 Work Plan. The team will initially draw up a work plan to cover these
terms of reference at the start of the study.
4.1 eports. A progress report should be submitted to the
MinisterTSecretary-General after six months. A final report should be
submitted on the completion of the study in the twelfth month.



-41 -                                   ANNEX 7
Diagram I
Management Training Program Organization
|SEOZETAW-YEi43l
MANAGBINTTRAINING UNIT
Assistant Director
|          TrTining Officer          l
I          Asstant Trakilng          l
I          FdOneOfce                 l
OFRice Office
Assistcrlt Rnarice       
LE  itor                  I
'OCesos fegonwsDp commrrtee will have representatives  ofm the
- Secreto v-GeneWs Office
- InspectaorafGenera
- Directomate-Genefol (Secretoryfs Offices)
- Center for Education & Training
World Bank-26391



-42 -                                 ANNE_    7
Diagram 2
Management Training Program
Organization of Ovse as Management
MANACGEMMfaJT lNI UNff
REUDCOCES            FRD CffXPcr   1              REaDC                           ETC.
CVE2SEAS             COUNY __-                    COUXNW_  y                    ETC .f
SEaIO~ROAL                   gACADE                     IDIIDA
COtIGRACI                                                                      FELLOMSbIOP
ORGANIZAON                   INSRTIfON                   ADjO
(DiAKCT                    (DPEa
SPERVN)                     9N)
Fg.LO6JS (LCfG-T WRM)
j94OPT-lEM- RAJNffIG
Ihese stall woLda De aoofclted wAtin vflOOesin embases
VJafldi 8ank-26wO



- 43                               ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Costs per Year of Implementation, by Project Component
Totals including
contingencies (Rp billion)         Total
1984    1985   1986   1987  Rp bln  US$ mln
Teacher improvement                   5.4'   19.7   24.2   19.1   68.4    68.4
Science equipment:
Prototypes                          0.0     0.3    0.8    0.7    1.8       1.8
Distribution                        0.0     0.1    0.7    0.5    1.3       1.3
Procurement                         8.9-    6.5   21.3    0.0   36.7    36.7
Subtotal                           8.9     6.9   22.8    1.2   39.8    39.8
Examination development               0.3     1.2    4.5    3.6    9.6       9.6
Education sector management
training program                    0.4     2.4    3.4    2.5    8.7       8.7
Preinvestment studies and
project evaluation                  0.1     0.4    0.6    0.2    1.3       1.3
Project management support            0.1     0.8    0.6    0.4    1.9       1.9
Total Project Cost              15.2    31.4   56.1   27.0  129.7   129.7



INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND KANAGEKENT TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984/85-1988/89)
(Rp Millions)
Operational/
Physical facilities         Profes-            Technical assistance             administrative       Total cost
Buildings  Furnl-  Equipment  sional   Special-  Fellow-   Local    Studies    salaries/              Rp mln   US$'000
ture                services  ists        ships    training               honoraria
DIKHM.NUH
Teacher improvement              11,251       746      4,448    1,126       1,518      4,453   46,447          -           -          69,989   69,989
Science equipment:
Prototypes                        144        10        786        15        460         95        10         -         110           1,630    1,630
Distribution                      640        92         54        69         24          -        17         -         254           1,150    1,150
Procurement                         -         -    79,899          -          -          -         -         -           -          79,899   79,899
Stubtotal                       784       102    80,739         84        464         95        27         -         364          82,679   82,679
Total DIKHENUH               12,035       848    85,187    .L210        2.002      4.548   46.474          -         364         152.668  152,668               -
Examination development             3,143       215      1,078       143        387      3,571       463         -            -           9,000    9,000
Education sector management
training program                      -         -        100         -      1,402      6,206       531       510         296           9,045    9,045
Preinvestment studies and
project evaluation                    -         -          -         -          -           -        -    1,020            -            1,020    1,020
Project management support             107       21         45         -        865         190        -         -         816            2,044    2,044
Baseline Cost                15,285    1,084    86.410    1.353         4.656    14.515   47,468    1.530          1.476         173,777  173,777
Contingenciest
Physical                        1,529       108      8,641       135        233        726    2,373         76          74          13,895   13,895
Price increase                  4,340       300    26,890        350      1,040      3,390   14,950        280         470          52,010   52,010
Subtotal                      5,869       408    35,531        485      1.273      4.116   17,323        356         544          65.905   65,905
Total Pro3ect Cost                                                                                                                                         I
Rp million                21.154    1.492   121.941        1.838     5,929    18.631   64,791    1.886          2.020          239,682       
US$ '000                  21.154      1.492   121.941    1.838        5,929    18,631   64,791    1,886          2,020                   239.682         a
I-.C



This Prolect
(Rp Millions)
Operational/
Physical facilities         Profem-            Technical assistance              administrative       Total cost
Buildings  Furni-  Equipment  sional   Special-  Fellow-   Local    StudIes    salaries/               Rp mln   US$'000
ture                 services  ists       ships    training                honoraria
DIKMENUM
Teacher improvement              10,134        671      4,006    1,014         886      3,266   33,003          -            -          52,980   52,980
Science equipment:
Prototypes                        138         10       620         15        433         95        10         -          60            1,381    1,381
Distribution                      613        92          54        67         24          -        13         -          96              959       959
Procurement                         -         -    29,939           -          -          -         -         -           -          29,939   29,939
Subtotal                        751       102    30,613         82        457          95        23         -         156          32,279   32,279
Total DIKMENUM               10.885       773    34.619    1,096        1,343      3,361   33,026           -         156          85,259   85,259
Examination development              2,672       200        979       132        362      2,598       311         -            -           7,254    7,254
Education sector management
training program                       -         -         95         -      1,285      4,482       410       510         256            7,068    7,068
Preinvestment studies and
project evaluation                     -              -          -               -          -         -    1,020            -            1,020    1,020
Project management support             107        21         31         -        646        171         -          -         583           1,559    1,559
Baseline Cost                13.664       994    35.724    1,228        3.636    10S61    33,747    1 530           1.025         102.160  102.160
Contingencies:
Physical                        1,366         99     3,572        123        182        531    1,687         16          51            7,687    7,687
Price increase                  3,650       260      4,940       300         640      1,800    7,710        280         230           19,810   19,810
Subtotal                      '.016       359      8.512       423        822      2.331    9.397         356         281          27,497   27.497
Total ProJect Cost                                                                                                                                         ' t  
Rp million                 18 680    1.353    44.236    1.651         4.458    12,943   43.144    1,886           1,306         129,657                  0
US$ '000                   18,680    1.353    44,236       1,651      4,458    12,943   43.144    1,886           1,306                   129,657



- 46 -                                               ANNEX A
Table 3
Page1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND HANACEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowshipa
Fellowships
Specialists                     Man-months each
Man-months    Total               Short-              Total
Number     each      man-mantha  Nsher   term   MA  PhD  un_-months
Teacher improvement:
English language advisor                      1        60           60
Short-term consultancies                    10          2           20
English-speaking assistants                 24         36          864
Science and math instructors,
study grants                                                                 20         I                  10
instructor training                                                            84        3                 252
Extension studies                                                           84         1                  84
Further study for 302                                                        30        1                  30
English supervisors extension                                                  35         1                  35
Project leaders                                                                 3        5                   15
Evaluation                                                                    243        3                  729
Media special training                                                         60         3                 180
Intensive English                                                              60        3                  180
Key headmosters                                                                84         1                  64
Total Teacher Improvement             35                    944        693                         1.599
Science equipment:
Prototypea:
School science equipment                    1        36           36
specialist
Short-term consultancies                   4         1+            5
Science equipment develop-                                                    4                           48
ment and meas production
Subtotal                               5                      41         4                            48
Distribution:
Diatribution and training
specialist                                1         2            2
Total Science Equipment                6                      43         4                            48
Examination development:
Cognitive tests                              4          1            4
Noncognitive tests                            7        1+            8
Item bank                                    4                       4
System analysis/computer *cience/
management information aystem               5         1            5
Cost effectiveness                            3         1            3
National examination system                   7         1            7
Essay testing                                4          1            4
Diagnostic testing                            7         1            7
Psychology (test and measurement)                                               3                  48       144
Educational psychology (learning)                                               I                  4A        48
Social paychology                                                               1                  48        48
Clinical psychology                                                             1                  48        48
Organizationallindu -rial psychology                                            1                  48        48
Education (curriculus)                                                          1                  4A       48
Education (research and evaluation)                                             1                  48        48
Education (planning)                                                            1                  4A       A8
Computer Science                                                                I                  A8        48
Statistics                                                                      1                  4I        48
Mathematics teaching                                                            3             18             54
Science teaching                                                                1             18             18
Biology teaching                                                                1             18             18
Physics teaching                                                                2             18             36
Cbecistry teaching                                                              1             18            18
History teaching                                                                1             18             18
Geography teaching                                                              1             18             18
Economics teaching                                                              1             18             18
English teaching                                                                2             18             36
Indonesian teaching                                                             1             18             18
Graphics                                                                        2             18             36
Statistics                                                                      2             18             36
Computer Science                                                                2             18             36
Education (research and                                                        30/a           18            540
evaluation)



- 47 -                                                 ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 2
Fellowships
Specialists                     Man-months each
Man-_onth.    Total               Short-               Total
Number     each      man-months  Number   term   MA  PhD  man-sonth.
Examination development (cont d):
Psychology (test and                                                            4             18             72
measureoment)
Library science                                                                 1             18              18
Management informatlon system                                                   2             18             36
Systems analysis                                                                2             18             36
Education (curriculum)                                                          1             18             18
Education (technology)                                                          1             18             18
Education (administration)                                                      1             18             18
Education (planning)                                                            1             18             18
Psychometry                                                                     2             18             36
Psychology (general)                                                            1             18             18
Attachment program                                                             20         2                  40
Study visits/tours                                                             12      0.2'                   3
Total Examination
Development                         41                      42       110                         1.807
Education sector management
training program:
Training                                    1        36.          36
Personnel msnagement                        1        36           36
Planning systems                            1        36           36
Short-term consultancies                   2          3            6
Field supervision /b                        6        12           72
Fellowship program by agency:
Secretariat General                                                         5                  48       240
12            24            288
64        6                  384
Inspectorate General                                                        1             24             24
6        6                   36
Directorates Ceneral                                                        8             24            192
(Secretariats)                                                          20         6                  120
Center for Staff                                                            1                  48       192
Training                                                                  3             24             72
10        6                   60
Kanwils                                                                    13             24            312
78        6                  468
IKIPs                                                                       2                  48        96
12             24            288
20        6                  120
Total Education Sector
Management Tralnint Progran        11                     186       258                         2,892
Project management support:
Chlef technical advisor                       1        36           36
Supply specifications                         1         3            3
Comaunications support                        1         4            4
International trainlng                        1         1            I
National finance /c                           1        18           18
National implementatlon Ic                    1        18           18
National innovation /c                        1        36           36
Flnanclal management                                                            2         4                   8
Supply management                                                               2         4                   8
Evaluation of school systems                                                    2         4                   8
Study tours/vIsits:
National project officers                                                     9         1                   9
Subunit heads                                                                 4         1                   4
Total Project Management Support       7                     116         19                            37
/.  Of vhich 4 from the central oklice and 26 from the regional offices.
/b  Overseas supervislon by Indonesian nationals.
Ic  Local specialists.



-48 -                             ANNEX 8
Table 4
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Project Expenditures by Procurement Category
(US$ million)
Total cost
Category of expenditure        ICB       LCB      Other     NA       including
contingencies
2t'ildings & site development    5.6    13.1        -        -          18.7
(1.4)   (3.2)     (-)       (-)        (4.6)
Furnit're & equipment           40.0     4.5       1.1       -          45.6
(33.3)   (3.8)    (0.9)      (-)       (38.0)
Professi)nal services             -       -        1.6       -           1.6
C-)     (-)     (0.3)      (-)        (0.3)
Techn.c l assistance:
Spec.alists & fellowships       -       -       17.4       -         17.4
C-)     (-)    (14.8)      C-)       (14.8)
Local training                  -       -         -      43.2         43.2
(-)     C-)      C-)    (19.2)       (19.2)
Studies                         -       -        1.9       -          1.9
C-)    (_)      (0.9)      (          (0.9)
Salaries and honoraria            -       -         -       1.3          1.3
(-)     C-)      (-)      (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                     45.6    17.6     22.0      44.5       129.7
(34.7) N7oe p h  (1e6e.f9)   (19.2)    T(i7.8l)
Note:  Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.



ANNEX 8
- 49 -                             Table 5
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
Regional
IBRD                        Disbursements                      education
fiscal year       Amount per             Cumulative              disbursement
and semester       semester       Amount     % of total /a       profile (Z) /b
(USs million) -
FY85
2                 2.4/c        2.4            3                    1
FY86
1                 4.6          7.0            9                    3
2                 7.0         14.0           18                    6
FY87
1                 9.4        23.4            30                   10
2                13.1         36.5           47                   16
FY88
1                16.9        53.4            68                   23
2                16.5         69.9           90                   31
FY89
1                 8.1        78.0           100                   40
/a  Estimated profile represents an above-average rate of disbursement because
the project (a) would be only an initial three-year phase of a 5-1/2 year
program; and (b) would be prepared more fully before lending than the
average position represented by the regional profile.
/b  The regional profile is based on historical data for 43 education projects
and represents the initial 4-1/2 years of the average 9-1/2 year disburse-
ment period.
/c  Including the front-end fee of about US$0.2 million.



-50 -                                            ANEC 8
Chart 
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCAIMON AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Cduodw?g1   1964                    11965       aqu *             1q7   g ss   1 ew 1w 11D
inDwC.A-wI)                           Ri         R      6  W      97    U         R
Go..miultcdauwi WCADO-M)       - 85                      6W0/7                 mm           _0 /o
,mci                               r    i:[:   ___
o__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i I                                    i1   1
M -    XW Lmmmfu 
*.etss    I~t    'a               j       I              Emir  m   a im               I     F   TI1  
M1 -I                                                          I ^  6_il
Deb,,,,- llObl HE 
O       I    .          I -      . !!ii
! 2_ _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    I  :11
.   I  ,  |  I  I  .,  r  r  !    l  l  l    l  l  l    |  !  I  IIII
=               I j    ,, I       X            I I        I I I i j    I ! | 1 ] a |~~~~~II  I 
SmmjIey
Oct",Vam*      dOflis                                                        I
~~ t                                                          II
Dem,wvo,a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I                       
Soocowurwcm~~:
Eocrfl cd e kabhe   %
PCIW"Wl ~* IWIO' O"wngs M  mm                    U               It
Bidewokichon~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Covme acro-
cawnictm ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~           1. 
6-
____     I I                              I       I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _
I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo 



-51-                                              ANNE 8
Chart 1
Page 2
CaiuidWYW                        1914        1S g                   1Q67       1968        19*        19W0
OROPIDWCJ-AA )                                     PM5        pM7         PMs        P699        FM          FMI
GoaI.Iadtrei WCiec)                 U/B       1       1      ftl7 1lhl  /V"e QT
C,ommnwworwKftneoo FfVWdk-Moch)  W85                         M~~~~~/OP   89/9090
___             ____                                                                                      ITT|1    ;  
!;                  21 -IfX  
icncea ucm i                                     Im-rAr      -.    
-- ~~~  i'                          I     I     1K X,I   7    II                     !I
P4u1teinjnt Ii!I                                        I 
9uv                 1, 1,_   i   I  ~~~~                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I  i  Ii I Il' 
AC .T                                      I om                                                      IIIf
P_a@             !  _       l     !    t ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~i ii   '    I             
, _.~~~~~~~ j  I                                            !.II                               I  Iiii  I  i !
I -                     I I   LL                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  I    I i  
Epsmtmeyo-micI i'
Soe                      ' .  =         S I       ~~       ~     ~     ~~~~I Ii   I  . j i   I  !i 
i : d  0 ! I@                              i       !i                   I                    I_ 
&iwv -ot                                           i l t I4omm
5 sWrovc ,i!  !I  ll
iI     £                         I    I   ,,I'                ,.'
-r        1I                                      I  ,i!
B.donximnoo mvwI omoo                                  2                 I 
Camc?WQ wI IJ                                                                     I
SoqI!utsS
FEU= .,aE
Conn,ca                                                                                       2.
B                                                                   Hi  ill  11
inca w,
II   11II 
___  Irwor
Dowwv ants~~1mmim...  nnrirm   rm~u~i                                             
SOODLIWC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
Ml 
LOW tcmwv ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     i
tk4abon mcior  ologia.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



-52-                               ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
SeLected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   C.S. Mangindaan, R.K. Sembiring, I. Livingstone, "National Assessment of
the Quality of Indonesian Education: Survey of Achievement in Grade
9",  Ministry of Education and Culture, Jakarta, 1978.
A.2   Suprapto, R.K. Sembiring, I. Livingstone, "National Assessment of the
Quality of Indonesian Education: Survey of Achievement in Grade 12",
Ministry of Education and Culture, Jakarta, 1981.
A.3   John Smyth, "Central Government Education Expenditure, 1980/81-1990/91".
A.4   Oey Astra Meesook, "Financing and Equity in the Social Sectors in
Indonesia", 1984.
A.5   Ward Heneveld, "The Development and Routine Budgets in Indonesia's
Department of Education and Culture. Do They Complement Each Other",
1984.
A.6   Extracts from Rancangan Repelita IV Pendidikan dan Generasi Muda
Departemen Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan (Five-Year Plan for Ministry of
Education and Culture).
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Loan Request for Education Development Project, Secondary General
Education, MEC, Jakarta, June/July 1983.
B.2   "Secondary Education in Indonesia:  Issues and Programs for Action",
World Bank Report No. 4954-IND, July 26, 1984.
B.3   David Clark, "Labor Market Outcomes for New Senior Secondary School
Graduates in Indonesia", World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 615, 1983.
B.4   H.C.A. Somerset, "Secondary Education, Selection Examinations and
University Recruitment in Indonesia: Some Key Issues", 1984.
B.5   H.C.A. Somerset, "The Potential Contribution of Examinations to School
Quality Improvement", 1984.
B.6   H.C.A. Somerset, "Patterns of University Recruitment:  Regional
Variations in the Flow of Secondary School Leavers to the PP1
Universities", 1984.



- 53 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 2
B.7   S. Heyneman, "Indonesian Secondary Schools:  Issues of Quality and
Finance", 1984.
B.8   W.T.S. Gould, "Indonesia:  Some Spatial Issues in Secondary Education",
1984.
B.9   Geert Criel, "Distribution of Secondary School Enrollments in
Indonesia", 1984.
B.10 Ministry of Education and Culture, "Draft Report of the Preinvestment
Study on the Improvement of General Secondary Education", 1982.
B.11 Anita Nazareth, "Projections of Enrollment and Resource Requirements for
Primary and Secondary Education in Indonesia", 1984.
B.12 P. Adey, "Procurement, Distribution and Maintenance of Science Apparatus
for Secondary General Schools", December 1983.
B.13  B.M. Makau, "Examination Development in Indonesian School Education",
December 1983.
B.14 C. MacAndrews, "Management Training Project for Senior Level
Staff-Ministry of Education and Culture", Jakarta, April 1984.
C. Working Papers



-.STi.         THAILAND    '                                             0                                   I
Boarndo Aceh                             ,                                                                                                                               -
B3runei j
e -   -   BRUNEI
MALAYSIA                                                                                         'L..
Medan                                                                                                                                    _
Kuala Lunipur
"it               -. "t-1
MALAYSIA                                       i
SndgCo_,;SINGAP0RE                            _
- i 3 !    -             *Tonpnr.pinong 
0r-   -                                      *PPon Baru                                                      K    A L      I   M          N          A    N
Pontionak
Somarindo
Podanq     8                                                                       1 4
J- ambi_                   ANGKA                                           17                            _
SUMA)ERA                .t~~~~Plngkoui~'nanq                                                          . 
,-  SUMA  rERA                               Tanjiungpondon                                                   -
Pblrmbang            *Pkngkr                                              /         -
PROVINCES                                        --               (+)                  INa                                         =                -n
JAWA TIMIJR            ~~Bengkulue                                                                                                  M
JAIIIA TIIIIUR
JAWA TENGAI                                               ,
JAWA BARAT
5 r      olK JIAKARTA
Dl YOOJAKARTA                                                 (4
Di RA A ARA                                                    4 a  I                                                                                     Ujung Pandang,
JAMBI                                           Tniung Korong .         i
RIAU*
SUtMATERA kARAT                                                         4 JKATA
SUMATERA SELATAN                                                                     J A      A
LAMPUOG                                                                  V
ACEH                                                                                   Ckbnin
SENGKULU                                                            (5    _            *      Cu    n                   MDRA
KALIMANTAN RARAT                                                           _                         *       (       -
KALIMAANTAI' TIMUR                                                       Bdwq               2 2
KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                                                                     bctS
KALIMANTAN TENGAI                                                                       "ogyakorto
SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                                 '-'1                 /j                AISAIMBAWA
SULAWESI TENGAN                                                                                                                               ,.                 Bima
SULAVIESI TENGGARA                                                                                ItS --                                 ;          aa2W,
IllALUltU                                                            --Deripasor   ZONOO                                                                  - - -  
BALI
1      NUSA TENGGARA HARAT
TENRGARA TIMUR
IRIAN JAY^
TIMOR TIMUR
hUlD? lI..Sch.oNo.alv..WesA...
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c                                             icr _ie *                                                                    ir_



~~ 1 15                                       1~~~I    20'                              12ST                            130
PHILIPPINES               A-
Brunel                                                                 7'
BRUNEI \ /- i
/
MALAYSIA  !
C   ~~~15                                                Menado.
2 - > 5          (X)                           <         .02HALMAHCRA
A Ll  '~~~~~~~' N                            \k~~~~~~~)e~21~
A   L   I   M <X    N  M        A   N                                           Gamnbblo
Svmaerindo
t)g ,_ ^ Bailik Pan                                  S(      S             (J                  ANSUA 22
\                              1      ©        S ULAWESIM
\  Pobnluera'    /16                           18      <                        \XFo '
r>*. rne-  @   4ndori  <    BURU
-20
Ujung Pandang,
Baubau'
AIADURA
Sutrabaya
$f 1'AAL I    SUMAAAWA
Bima                flORES
* 0          - 24 (            -Muee Atombuo^
>2                   4iQ~untaabss¶Denpasartma JrLOM 2I                    Maufuere   A ambuav,
Wainoapu  25                        27
S/LIA                   Kupong         IIM   *QO
1X5                              120t                              125'                              la



IBRD18392
22-                                 i3   -                               li35- *iD                                       AWUUST i
INDONESIA                                           5
PHILIPPINES                                                                SECONDAIT EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT
TRAINING PROJECT
® 9     NUMBER OF TEACHERS CENTERS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED IN EACH PROVINCE
A       StECEOECUIPMENT PROTOTYPE WORPSHOP
/                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND CENTRAL WA REHOUSE
/  *    EXAMINATIONSCENTER
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Menodt                                                                  -         INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
>                                                   IIHALMAHERA
* 21
GoracSo
{                        ~~~~~~~~Monakwori..
/XEPVLAUNSUSA 22                                               26         -.
(o(a t                                                                                         Jaycourd
SULAWESiL 
\  Fklfkll              Nobire          IR/AN   JArYA 
*Kendori                        BURU                                \                                    Enarofali                         i  Z
20 
Agats
Baubau~                                                                                                                                           s 
.C
Merouke
Mourmere   AtambaueI                                                                                                                 .___.
25   .1 si  t                              j70 o              OO        200        300        400        50O   _              -
Kupong          ,,jsOi    1t                                                              bUE-_s_
25       -~~~~~       27;~                                                   20MILES
*                                                         o,   290   200   30,0   400   50         c     700    ,O0
KILOMETERS
12 5ta                                                                      13!a                                  140 






