IF                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       1~
.11                  I~~~~~~~l IM
[I                                                       no,



*  C-RENC EALEN5T
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US1.00         =   Rp 1,000
Rp 1 million       US$1,000
OF 1nNESI Fl   YEAR
April 1--March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL fABBREVIA!IONS AiD ACROYMPS USED
BALrTBANG     - Office of Ed;arional and CultwraL Research and
Developent;, Ministry of Education and CuLture
BAPPEIAS      - National Developat Planning Agency
DIKMN         - Directorate o' General Secondary Education, Ministry
of Education az4 Culture
GOt           -  Go- ernment of Irdonesia
cz            - German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IKIP         - Taracher Training ColIege
NEC           -  iinistry of Education and Culture
MM        U       an- lanagennt Training Unit
PKG           -  In-service Teacher Training Program - First Phase
REPEL TA      - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita 1,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-
84; Repetira IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, L989-94)
SMA           -  Senior General Secondary Education
SlP -         -  Junior General Secondary Education
SPG           -  Senior Secondary Teacher Training



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDOlNESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND            TRAINING PROJECr
Loan and Projec: Summary
Borrower:          3epunlic of Indonesia
Amoun_:            3SS7J.0 million equivalent (including capitailzed front-end
-eeJ
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years.. including five years of gra=e, at
the standard variable rate.
Projec_:
Description:     The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) assist the
Government to improve the quality of generaL secondary
education and thereby raise the quality of Indonesia's
human resources for economic deveLopment and (b) strengthen
management and planning skills at senior levels in the
education sector. The project would: (i) provide in-
service training for teachers of science. mathematics and
English and for provincial school supervisors and head-
masters; (ii) improve the provision of school science
equipment; (iii) deveLop the institutional capacity to
operate a more effective national school examinations
system; and (iv) strengthen management and planning perfor-
mance in the Ministry of Education and Culture (NEC)
through a fellowship training scheme and a management
study. The main benefits of the project would be to
improve the quality of about 42,000 teachers in key subject
areas; increase the availability of improved science equip-
ment at about 8,200 public and private secondary schools;
st-rengthen the national examinations system: and improve
the management and planning skills of about 250 senior MEC
officials. Because this would be the firsc Bank-financed
prcject under the Directorate of General Secondary Educa-
tion and the Examinations Center, there is a risk of some
delavs in project implementation. The technical assistance
in project management to be provided by UNDP should reduce
_h_s risk.
I This document has a resuiaced distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their offKal duties. Its conents may not otherwise be disckosed Vwithoul World Bank authornzation.



Estimated Costs: Ia
Local    Foreign    Total
US$ million   -
Teacher improvement                                  39.9        13.1     53.0
Science equipment:
Prototypes                                          0.4         1.0      1.4
Distribution                                        0.7         0.3      1.0
Procurement                                         4.6        25.3     29.9
Examination deveLopment                               3.1         4.1      7.2
Education sector management training program           1.8        5.3      7.1
Preinvestment studies and project evaluation          0.5         0.5      1.0
Project management support                            0.8         0.8      1.6
Base Cost                                       51.8        50.4    102.2
Physical contingencies                                3.5         4.2      7.7
Price contingencies                                  12.B         7.0     19.8
Total Project Cost                              68.1        61.6    129.7
Front-end fee on Bank loan                             -          0.2      0.2
Total Financing Required                        68.1        61.8    129.9
Finoncing Plan:
Local   Foreign     Total
- US$ million-
IB_R                              16.6      61.4       78.0
Government                        51.5        -        51.5
MONDP                               -        0.4        0.4
Total                        68.1      61.8      IZ9.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
US$ million
Annual                2.4    11.6    22.5    33.4       8.1
Cumulative            2.4    14.0    36.5    69.9    78.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 5124-IND, dated September 26, 1984.
X4ap:              IBRD No. 18392
/a   Import duties or taxes on building materials would be negligible and
hence have not '--en identified separately in project costs.



REPORT AND RECOM[ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANBEDEVELOPHENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SECONDARY EDUCATION AND
MANAGEENT TAINING PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$78.0 million, including
the capitaLized front-end fee, to help finance a Secondary Education and
Management Training Proiect.  The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1
2.        A basic economic report, 'Indonesia:  Grovth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-END dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic mnmorandum has been prepared in each subsequenc year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-ID dated April 26, 1984) was distributed to the
Ezecutive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13.000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2X p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated -islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-tbirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4Z p.a. The 1982 estimate of GNP ur capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-i
11 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourteenth
Power Project (No. P-3830-IND), circulated under cover of R84-146, dated
May 25, 1984, and approved by the Executive Directors on June 14, 1984.
Z/ On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GeP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at aLmost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabiliatate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment.  However. the dominant external
-influence over the past decade has been the huge e_xpansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from USS0.6 billion in L97J/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a scirplus of USS2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central GCvernment receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demanc.. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. O)f particular note has been the
supporc for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
7ices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 46 p.a. over the past decade,
and movemenc towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about L4X p.a.), although this was from
a very _ow base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protractec :nternational recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Covernment acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
-educing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include:
(a)  a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
aithout any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b)  a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
seccor;
(c)  successive price increases for petroleum products over the past two
years, which have largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d)  a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e)  approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplifying the
structure of rates and improving administration.



-3-
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Nun-oil GDP rose by an estimated 42
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit has been reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4Z
of GNP) in 1982/83 to about US$4.2 bilLion (6.OZ of GNP) in 1983184. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts resulting from
he Government's effcrts to curb aggregate demand and hizher export earnings
from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies to promote non-oiL exports. The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average
by only 2Z p.a. over the past two years. Roucine expenditure has been held in
check by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15X increase is budgeted for
1984/85) and reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products.
This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about
121 in 1983/84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the recent petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for -fediumrTerm Growth and TransEormation
7.        a sustained rate of growth of at least 5Z p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating uinmanageabLe balance of payments pressures, is one of the majlor
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
vill require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
enmt for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import
content of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to faci-
litate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program.
Possible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high-priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a singLe source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable



-4-
provided that economic recoverv in the industrial economle is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not conscrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
_;hange rate policies.  The GoveL.iaiat has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finAnce for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingiv important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions.  Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the
importance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are
two important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of
growth to be more evenly spread than indicated by. output trends. The first of
these is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of which one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has aLso been substantial rural-urban migration both



between and within provinces. The second process is the reWistribution of
income through the government budget. Begional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57J to 402; the decline was particuLarly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where Landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The
1979-81 bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined. This situation may have been reversed
foLlowing the 1983 devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.72
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to Lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's empLoyment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on
agricultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at
economic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural
year (e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to
encourage agricultural development on the Other Islands. Tt is also important
that public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as
social programs and rural infrastructure, which generate emoloyment or ease
the burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the popuLation. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popuLa-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quaLity of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the



-6-
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during 2Re 19709 is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40Z of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60Z and 75Z,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks.  The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (52 p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of
external reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 is estimated at
US$23.7 billion, with an additionaL US$11.2 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 47% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 222; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
14 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20-. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the
ratio rose to 23% in that year. With the projected levels and composition of
borrowings and export earnings, Tndonesia's public debt service ratio, again
based on net exports, would rise to about 28Z in 1985 and then gradually de-
cline to about 23% by the end of the decade. With private MLT debt included,
the total debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross
exports, would rise from 192 in 1983 to around 222 during 1985-88 and decline
to 20% in 1990. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONES1A 3
17.       As of March 31, 1984, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$931.8 million, and 85 Bank loans amounting to US$6,259.5 million. IFC
commitments totalled US$162.2 million.  The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) dkternal debt outstanding at the end of 1982 was
13.3S, and the share of debt service, 7.9Z compared with L1.2Z and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981.  Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.  Given the critical importance of
agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development, vater supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial devel-
opment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
Lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979. stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
19.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surpLus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue.  The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector wiork and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
.and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
3/ Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourteenth
Power Project (No. P-3830-IND), circulated under cover of R84-146, dated
May 25, 1984, and approved by the Executive Directors on June 14, 1984.



-8-
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to acceLerate disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
. che composition of Lending invoLves a rapid expansion planned in the educa-
tion sector, a direct response. to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In
the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor- and resource-intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.
Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for
transport is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of
social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and
water supply, will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the devel-
opment of innovative low-cost solutions.
20.       The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio - from a low of 13Z in FY80, to 19% in FY84. The poor FY80 ratio was
in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122Z
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83Z. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower of =ourse
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identif; general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measrres. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and in May 1984. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline
some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project
implementation. The Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a lager stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
from US$206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. vz is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
21.       Frm 1968 until 1974, all leading to Indooesiu was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the coaodity
and oil price boom in 19731741 the bulk of the Bank Group's subseqent lending
bas been trough IRM  loans, with a modest amout of IDAM ledirg being
justifIed primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita QCP was well below
the IDk cutoff le-i-e.  Given Indonesia's mmch improved creditworthiness, IDA
lending was disco.-einued in FY80.
FAET III - THE SEWEDART EDUC&TOIG SECTOR
Overview
22.       With a prinary and secondary school-age population of about 46 mil-
lion in 1984, Indonesia faces a difficult task in providing basic education
and pre-employment training to its children and young people. The Covernment
has made notable progress to date. Universal access to grade one of
school has been virtually achieved. Dropout and repetition rates have d
in the past decade in spite of the mach larger volume of children invlved.
Enrollment in primary schools grew from 13.0 million children in 1972 to
24.7 million in 1982/83. At the junior secondary level enrollmmet tripled
fra 1.4 million in 1971 to 4.3 milLion in 1982183 and the enrollment rate has
reached 41Z. At the senior secondary level, enrolluejt grew from 0.6 million
in 1971 to 2.3 miLlion in 1982183 resulting in an enrollment rate of 24Z.
23.       Despite these achievements, there is an acute shortage of skilled
=anpower which constrains effective implementation of development programs.
Current enrollment rates in both secondary education (35Z) and higher
education (AZ) are still well below recent East Asia averages of about 44Z and
13% respectively. Substantial investment in the education system beyond the
primary Level i: required, in particular to increase the supply and quality of
secondary school graduates who are more efficiently trainable as professionaL,
para-professional, technical and managerial manpower. Recent tracer studies
on the jobs and incomes of school-leavers have revealed that the economic rate
of return to completing secondary education is 24% for all types and 32Z for
general secondary education in particular. While these figures should decline
as the number of school-leavers increases, the benefits of secondary education
are expected to remain substantial.
24.       The formal education system consists of a six-year primary school
cycle, junior and senior secondary cycles of three years each and post-
secondary education ranging from one to six years. The system is divided into
several types of schools at the secondarv level: junior secondary - general
(SMP), home economics, and technical; senior secondary - general (SXA),
commerce, home economics, technical, teacher training (SPG), and sports
teacher training. At the junior lev lr, over 90Z of enrollment is in the
general schools, while at the senior level the share of enrollment in general
secondary schools has been increasing. Demand for general secondary education



- 10 -
has already exceeded the capacity of public sector schools. Consequently,
private schools have muLtiplied to meet demand and, at the senior secondary
level, now outnumber public schools. OveraLL. private schools account for
about 50Z of total secondary school enrollment and the Government is con-
sidering ways and means of enhancing their roLe and improving their quality.
Private schools already receive direct Covernment aid in the form of publicly-
paid teachers and the use of Government school facilities for afternoon and
evening shifts. Future assistance will include provision of teaching
reSourCeS (such as school science equipment under the proposed project) and
possibly direct grants for operating and capital expenditures.
.
Improving the Quality of SeconLary Education
25.       While the private and public school systems have been able to acorn-
modate the rapid increase in overall enrollment, the quality of secondary edu-
cation is a serious problem. Learning levels in secondary schools are so low
that some public universities and teacher training institutes (IKIPs) have to
admit students who achieved only slightly above the random guessing score on
the multiple-choice university entrance examinations. lhis low quality of
learning in secondary schools can be attributed to: a shortage of adequately
prepared teachers; a lack of instructional resources such as science equip-
ment, textbooks and school libraries; an ineffective system of school examina-
tions; and the comnm practice of many teachers of teaching in more than one
school and thereby scattering their attention and energy.
Z6.       Teacher Preparation. The rapid expansion of general secondary
education has led to shortages of qualified teachers, particularly in mathema-
tics, science, and English. Often these subjects are taught by teachers who
have had only one or two years of post-secondary education. The Government is
undertaking major efforts to overcome these shortages. Crash courses are
being offered by the IKIPs, but the teachers graduating from such courses are
underqualified and require in-service training. A major survey in 1978 found
that students taught by teachers who hsve received in-service training in
specific subject areas, including mathematics, science and English, showed
higher achievement levels. In 1980 the Directorate of General Secondary
Education 'DIKMENUN) began a program to upgrade SHP and SMA teachers in these
key subjects. The initial phase of the program, known as Pemantapan Kerja
Guru (PRC) (translated as "fostering the work of the teacher") is an in-
service approach to the upgrading of teachers. PKG was initiated vith
assistance from UNDP and UNESCO. The next phase of the program would use the
PKC-trained pool of key teachers to lead further in-service courses in
Teachers Centers in all districts and hence spread the teacher improvement
program throughout the country. An external evaluation has recently found
.that the strongest positive effects of this program have been Fn the rural
areas.
27.       School Science Equipment.  Science equipment in Indonesian schools
has largely consisted of imported equipment, or badly made local copies of
imported equipment. In 1976, a Ministry of Education and Culture (NEC) work-
shop for the development of prototypes for primary school science teaching
aids was establisbed at the IKIP in Bandung, with the support of the Federal
i-public of Germany (CTZ). The aim was to produce suitable prototypes out of



- 11 -
local materials. the prototypes are being given to Indonesian manufacturers
who are adopting them to raise the quality and competitiveness of their
products. By means of this 'transfer of technology," the Indonesian school
system will reduce its dependence on imports. Given the projected future
growth of the domestic school equipment market, there are good reasons for
fostering a strong domestic manufacturing capability in this field. The
Government would nov like to extend the prototype development program to the
secondary school system.
28.       Science equipment is currently stored in "transit warehouses",
before being given to transport companies for delivery. MEC has only pe-iodic
use of these facilities and hence has not been able to exercise adequate
inventory control. Equipment selection is based on centrally determined,
standard equipment sets which sometimes results in a serious mismatch between
supplies and needs. In addition, there are long delays in distribution of
equipment to schools in outlying provinces.  To become more responsive to
actual needs, the distribution system requires a central warehouse for receipt
and checking of deliveries, provincial warehouses for storage and distribution
of the necessary supplies to schools, and a network of key science teachers
who can diagnose problems with faulty equipment and either repair it or send
the item back to suppliers for repair.
29.       With the rapid growth of enrollments, more equipment is needed to
permit pupils to conduct science experiments in schools. Thus, even while
science equipment prototypes are being developed for use by Indonesian manu-
facturers, further large-scale importation of science equipment is needed over
the next three to four years.
30.       Examinations. The national grade 12 leaving and university entrance
examination was abolished more rhan ten years ago, as its administration was
considered weak. Since then, schools have set their ovs leaving examinations,
making it difficult to establish national assessment standards. Schools and
teachers are unwilling to fail too many students and, consequently, the final
examination results and graduation certificates carry little weight with
prospective employers, post-secondary institutions, or the students
themselves.
31.       Public universities have also introduced common entrance  xa-min-
ations in order to have objective criteria for student selection, while many
individual private universities administer their own tests. While these
examinations have largely safeguarded standards of education in public
universities, they have had a negative influence over what is taught in the
upper grades of the senior general secondary school. The examination questions
have been entirely multiple-choice. Some important intellectual and practical
skills (such as writing continuous prose) have not been tested, and have
therefore been downplayed by teachers and students alike. Secondary school
teachers have had little input into determining examination questions and have
received no feedback on school or student performance. If appropriately
analyzed and reported, such feedback could be used to correct teaching methods
and stimulate Local education officials, school principaLs and teachers to
improve performance levels. Reform of the examinations system, including the
creation of a performance feedback system, could improve the quality of



- 12-
education at a relatively Low marginal unit cost. With the continued use of
ezamination fees, the system could also remain virtuallv self-financing.
32.      The Government has recently decided that entry to public
universities and IKIPs will soon be based on both in-school assessment and a
single centrally-administered examinerion. To implement this policy effec-
tively, multiple-choice items need to be improved and new examination tools
need to be designed- Writing and laboratory skills must be tested and many
more testing sites should be opened in outlying areas. Whereas the previous
university entrance examinations wer'- conducted by ad hoc comittees of NEC
and university officials, MEC now intends to transfer this responsibility to
its Examinations Center, which previously has developed tests for other parts
of MEC. The FExainations Center wilI need technical and mate-ial support to
carry out this added responsibility.
33.      Libraries and Textbooks. Recent studies on school quality in
Indonesia have shown the great influence of school libraries and book holdings
on levels of academic achievement. According to MEC, only about 450 out of
18,000 secondary schools have acceptable school library facilities.  Recogniz-
ing the importance of library improvements, NEC has recentLy requested the
UNESCI/World Bank Cooperative Program to undertake a survey of investment
priorities and strategies for library development, with a view to preparing a
possible project in this area. The Bank has already financed two projects to
develop school textbooks (see paragraph 43 below).
34.      Teacher Multiple Employment. Multiple employment by secondary
school teachers has had a negative effect on school quality. Due to continu-
ing teacher shortages, this practice is likely to continue even if the Govern-
ment raises teacher salaries significantly in real terms. Because of budge-
tary constraints, however, it is unlikely to do this in the foreseeable
future. Meanwhile, the Bank is assisting the Government under the Second
Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND) to expand the output of newly trained
teachers.
Secondary School Equity
35.       Until recently, the great majority of new secondary schools in
Indonesia have been located in cities and towns and boarding facilities were
uncommon; hence, bright children from rural areas were forced to migrate to
urban areas simply to enter secondary school. In 1982, the Government took a
major step to redress this inequity by financing construction of over 1,000
new public secondary schools in rural areas, and it is expected that future
capital expansion will continue this policy. Further measures to improve
equity include facilitating registration for the national university entrance
examinations in the more remote provinces, and, through the proposed project,
improving the quality of teaching in science, mathematics and English,
especially in rural areas. This would be done by locating more teacher
training courses and facilities in rural districts, where teachers have
traditionally been weakest, and improving access to school science equipment.



- 13 -
Financing Secondary Education
36.      The rapid growth of secondary education would pose considerable
financial burdens if the full cost were to be borne by the central Govern-
ment. However, the Covernment has usually financed only 10 - 20 of all
expenditures on secondary education because there are so many private schools,
and because even public schools charge some fees, while providing virtually no
boarding facilities. In these respects, the school systen in Indonesia is
similar to those of the Philippines, Korea and Thailand, where private
initiatives play a key role in reducing the Government's recurrent cost
burden.
37.       The Government has been increasing the education sector's share of
the development budget in recent years, and this wiLl necessarily continue
through Repelita IV, if quality is to be maintained in the face of continued
rapid enrollmet growth. Simply to accommodate projected growth in the public
schools, without any increase in resources per user, the overall secondary
education budget will need to grow by about 6X p.a. If a program of actions
is adopted to improve quality and equity, and local coumunity resources are
mobilized successfully, the budget will need to grow at about 8Z p.a. Total
capital expenditures in the education sector during Repelita IV are intended
to reach US$5-6 billion. Secondary education is expected to account for the
preponderant share of these investments (up to 65% compared with 25X for
higher education).
Action Program to Improve Secondary Education
38.      A ten-year action program to improve general secondary education was
reviewed with the.Government in April 1984 during discussions of a draft study
on this subject I/ Its principal recoxm  nd tions regarding quality
improvement - including in-service teacher training, distribution of science
equipment and a more effective examinations system - would be implemented as
part of the proposed project. Other aspects of the program are likely to be
implemented in parallel with the project. These include increasing the stock
of secondary school teachers; channeling more capital development funds to
underprivileged rural areas and to private schools in selected areas;
increasing access to high-quality schools and retaining the double-shift use
of facilities in urban areas; adjusting public school fees to inflation each
year; and offering free access to secondary school for qualified students from
low-income families. Progress in implementing such steps will be essential
for improving the quality and equity of the secondary school system at a
reasonable public cost.
Management Skills in the Education Sector
39.      The rapid growth of the education sector has strained the management
capabilities of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC). NEC is divided
5/ General Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issues and Programs for
Action, IBRD Report No. 4954-IND, dated July Z6, 1984.



- 14 -
into seven major branches. The Secretariat General deals with administration,
planning, budget and financial and personnel management. The Directorate
General of Primary and Secondary Education provides in-service teacher
training, and establishes and maintains standards. The Office of Educational
and Cultural Research and Development (BALITBANG) collects statistical data on
the system, conducts long-term planning and carries out research, curriculum
development and evaluation. The Inspectorate General audits the accounts and
performance of the rest of the Ministry by confirming that the instructions of
the Minister are implemented. In addition, there are Directorates General for
Higher Education, Culture, and Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports.
40.       MEC is the largest Ministry in the Indonesian Government.  It
accounted for 7.3Z of the total Government budget in 1983184, including 14.4Z
of the development budget. The Ministry is responsible for some 1.6 million
personnel, or 50z of the total civil service, and has management and planning
responsibility for 160,000 accounting units.
41.       NEC suffers from several major problems.  First, while it has ade-
quate staff, most of its senior managers are former school teachers and pro-
fessors whc have had no pre-service or in-service training in management and
planning. Consequently, many MEC administrators tend tG see themselves as
resource spenders rather than resource managers. A large-scale training pro-
gram is reqqired for senior NEC staff in personnel managenent, financial
management, budget management and accounting, quantitative planning, manage-
ment information systems, organizational development, and education plan-
ning.  Second, the system saffers from a rigid application of civil service
regulations which place too much value on seniority over merit. The personnel
system needs to be revised to incorporate performance evaLuation which would
reward meritorious staff regardless of length of service. Finally, MEC lacks
an efficient management information system to provide information flows in
such vital areas as costs, budget and expenditures. To address these problems
and strengthen management and planning performance in the Ministry, a manage-
ment study needs to be carried out.
Government Strategy and Bank Role
42.       With the achievement of universal access to primary education, the
Government has decided to give major priority during Repelita IV and V to
secondary and higher education. Particular attention will be given to improv-
ing the quality of secondary schools during a period of expected rapid growth.
Given the growing size of the national education budget, the Government also
attaches priority to improving the management efficiency of MEC.
43.       The Bank Group has supported 15 education projects in Indonesia.
Five of these projects, Teacher Training I and II (Loans 1433-IND and 2101-
IND), Textbooks I and II (Credit 387-IND and Loan 2102-IND), and University
Development I (Loan 1904-IND), have addressed issues related to secondary
education. The two teacher trainLng projects have focussed on strengthening
the secondary schools that are preparing primary school teachers and the
colleges which give pre-service training to secondary schooL teachers. The
second project is also supporting colleges for teachers of the handicapped and
an in-country program to .rain large numbers of mid- to low-level education



- 15 -
administrators.- Under the University Development I Project, the Government
agreed to consider ways to improve university entrance procedures. The
proposed project would assist the implementation of changes in these
procedures. The Second Textbook Project (Loan 2102-IND) has initiated the
establishment of a school-supply warehousing system in the provinces which
would be used further under the proposed project. OED Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPMRs) have been prepared for two education projects in
Indonesia and the lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project. The PPAR for the Technical Education Project (Credit 219-
IND) (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, Sec M80-440) stressed the importance of
including fellowships for development of teachers and school admiaistrators
and appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner. The
PPAR for the first Agricultural Training Project (Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508.
dated June 30, 1980, Sec X80-527) stressed the importance of advanced
preparation and the need for carefully designed and suitable technical
assistance components.
PART IV - THE PROJECr
Background
44.       The proposed project was prepared by the Directorate of General
Secondary Education in the Ninistry of Education and Culture, with the assis-
tance of UNESCO and the support of Bank staff. The project was appraised in
December 1983 and a post-appraisal mission visited Indonesia in April 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from September 10 to September 13,
1984. The Indonesian delegation was headed by Mr. H. A. R. Tilaar, Head of
the Bureau of Education and Culture at the National DeveLopment Planning
Agency (BAPPENAS). k Loan and Project Sumary is at the front of this
Report. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5124-IND) is being distributed separ-
ately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
45.       The objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) assist the
Government to improve the quality of general secondary education and thereby
raise the quality of Indonesia's human resources for economic development, and
(b) strengthen management and planning skills at senior levels in the educa-
tion sector.
46.       To improve the quality of general secondary education, the project
would provide funds for civil works, equipment and furniture, technical assis-
tance, local and overseas training and studies. It would:
(a) provide in-service teacher training in science, mathematics and
English, and expand the training of provincial school supervisors
and headmasters initiated over the past four years with UNDP/UNESCO
assistance;



- 16 -
(b) produce equipment prototypes, using local materials where possible,
for dissemination to local manufacturers in order to develop their
capacity to manufacture secondary school science equipment;
tc) strengthen the school science equipment distribution/storagelmain-
tenance system through provision of warehouse facilities;
(d) procure new scocks of school science equipment; and
(e) increase the institutionaL capacity to develop and operate a more
effective national school examinations system, by broadening the
scope of work and increasing the human and physical resources of the
existing Examinations Center in NEC.
47.       To strengther management and planning performance in MEC, the
project would provide funds for a trainin needs assessment and a fellowship
scheme to train senior managerial and planning staff, and to carry Out a
management study. To improve the capacity of the Directorate of General
Secondary Education (DIKlENUM) and the Examinations Center to prepare and
implement future projects, this project would provide assistance for pre-
investment studies, project monitoring and evaluation and project management.
Ceneral Secondary Education
48.       Teacher Improvement. The project would train smom  42,000 science,
mathematics and English teachers (or more than half of all teachers of such
subjects) at 240 non-residential Teachers Centers (paragraph 26). These
teachers would remain at work during their training, which would extend over
two semesters, involving both once-a-week group instruction at the Centers and
on-the-job observation and coaching back in their own classacoms. The
training would be in the subject matter itself, as well as in practical teach-
ing methods and student performance evaluation. The teacher would be trained
according to a "multiplier" or "cascade" design which is comaonly used in
Indonesia. First, about 150 'instructors" would be trained in a combination
of short overseas and in-country courses. In turn, they would train about
1,850 "key teachers" at regional residentiaL training centers. These key
teachers (who are already partly trained from the pilot phase of the project)
would lead courses in the Teachers Centers for the full target group. To
reinforce the newly-trained terchers in their work situation, the project
would give short orientation courses to about 1,400 headmasters. To guide the
training program, the project would provide about 1,600 man-months of training
to about 150 instructors, 80 key headmasters, 80 provincial supervisors and 3
program leaders.
49.       Seventy Teachers Centers already operate in existing secondary
schools and the Government intends to expand this number to 240, most of these
in the rural areas, by the end of Repelita IV. The project would build,
equip, and furnish simple facilities for about 190 of these Centers, which
would be located so as to serve regional clusters of schools. The Centers
would be adjacent to existing schools and consist of one or two laboratory/
multi-purpose rooms and a workroom. The Teachers Centers are managed by the



- 17 -
headmasters of the schools concerned under the supervision of the Provincial
Education Office. Sixty-four of the 240 Centers would have a small facility
for repairing science equipment. About 80 man-months of consultant services
would be provided to support the general training program and 24 English
speaking assistants would be involved in the English language program.
50.       Science Equipment.  The project would assist in the provision of
science teaching equipment in chree distinct and complementary ways:
(a) Science Equipment Prototypes. Technical assistance and training
would be given to DIKMENUM staff, and a workshop and office would be
established to create and test prototypes of science equipment,
adapted to the Indonesian curriculum and using local materials.
These prototypes would be disseminated to all local manufacturers
interested in supplying school science equipment.
(b) Strengthening the Distribution of Science Equipment. To improve the
distribution of science equipment to schools, the project would
construct, equip and furnish a central warehouse for storing, con-
trolling and dispatching centrally-procured science equipment. This
facility would be operated by DIKMENUN staff in conjunction with
regional textbook storage and distribution facilities provided under
the Second Textbook Project (Loan 2102-IND).
(c) Science Equipment Procurement. The project would also alleviate
short-term shortages of science equipment by supplying necessarr
items to some 8,200 schools. About 80% of the equipment would be
for new schools or private schools which have never received
equipment previously. It would include small laboratory items such
as microscopes, models and measuring devices together with an
initial stock of standard consumables (mainly glassware and
chemicals). MEC has an annual tender for secondary school science
equipment for both new schools and resupply of existing schools.
The project would finance the annual tender for three years,
beginning in 1984.
51.       Examination Development.  This component would develop the institu-
tional capacity to operate a national secondary school leaving and university
entrance examination system. The existing Examinations Center, in the
BALITBANG, would be strengthened through provision of specialists, staff
training fellowships, equipment, and a new headquarters building. The Exam-
inations Center would develop the secondary school leaving examination and the
examination for entrance to higher education.  Eventually, these two examina-
tions may be merged. The Center's main functions in this area would be the
development of tests, production of test papers and their distribution,
marking, grading, as well as preparation of feedback reports to MEC officials
and schools. Efficient support services would be required in the areas of
data processing, printing, library and records, accounts, personnel, and
general administration.



- 18 -
Education Sector Management Training Program
52.       The NEC training program would be primarily for overseas study in
management and planning fields not readily available, or well enough
developed, in Indonesia. Nonetheless, in-country courses would be used where
available. The training program would be directed at: (a) senior officials
in MEC; (b) senior provincial education officers; (c) future IKIP Lecturers in
education management, finance and planning; and (d) staff of MEC's Center for
Education Staff Training. About 200 incumbents in senior positions would
receive short-term training, while about 60 recent graduates would follow MA
and PhD courses (for a total of 2,892 man-months). The scheme would be admin-
istered by a Management Training Unit (MTU) under the Secretary General of
MEC.  Standing agreements would be made with agencies in each of the host
countries to supervise the fellows. To initiate the scheme, an Indonesian
team, including representatives of MEC and the National Development Planning
Agency (BAPPENAS), would conduct a reconnaissance mission to a small number of
countries to identify partner training institutions. An initial assessment of
priority training requirements has already been completed. A more
comprehensive training needs assessment would be carried out under the mTU to
guide the Later years of the fellowship program. This assessment would be
completed and provided to the Bank by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement). In addition, a management study of NEC would be
carried out to remedy organizational and procedural weaknesses in the
Ministry. The study would be executed by a local firm of management
consultants, under the direction of a technical working group within MEC,
including a representative of the National Institute of Administration. (A
total of 186 man-months of specialist services would be provided for this com-
ponent.) The study would be implemented in accordance with rerms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and the results of the study would be furnished to
the Bank by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Preinvestment Studies and Project Evaluation.  The project would
provide for honoraria, consultant services and related expenses to assist MEC
to prepare sector surveys and conduct feasibility studies for possible follow-
up investments. In particular, DIKMENUM would conduct tryouts, surveys and
feasibility studies for some of those action programs which were recommended
in the recent study on general secondary education (see paragraph 38 above).
The component would assist MEC in monitoring implementation and evaluating the
impact of the project. It would also finance a new tracer study to monitor
secondary school graduate performance in the labor market.
Project Management and Implementation
54.       The teacher improvement and science equipment components of the
project and the pre-investment studies would be the responsibiLity of an
existing management unit in DIKMENUM. The development of the institutional
capacity to operate a national examinations system would be undertaken by the
Examinations Center in the BALITBANG, which would have staff appointed to
additional positions being established in the Center in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The management training program would be administered by the MTU
of the Secretariat General. Coordination of project management activities by



- 19 -
these three entities would be provided by a steering committee representing
each of them and chaired by the Director of DIKKENUN.
55.       Because this project would be the first major international invest-
ment project in DIKMENUM, it would include about 116 man-months of technical
assistance for project management and procurement. This assistance would be
provided by the UN Office of Project Execution and also include 37 man-months
of fellowships in financial and supply management and evaluation. It would be
centered on the management unit in DIKKENUM but also support other units of
MEC responsible for implementing aspects of the project. Part of the purpose
of this assistance would be to build up a permanent capacity for better
project implementation within DIRNENUM. The technical assistance for the
development of prototypes for local science equipment would be obtained from
GTZ, which has had specialized in-country experience in this area.
56.       All land needed for the construction and operation of project
facilities would be acquired by the Government not later than March 31, 1985
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would also
provide, promptly as needed, the funds required for the adequate maintenance
of the training facilities constructed under the project (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing PLan
57.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$129.7 mil-
lion equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$61.6 million, or
47% of total costs. Construction cost estimates are based on: (a) minimum
physical requirements appropriate to the project's objectives and (b) recent
contract awards adjusted to April 1984 prices. Estimated equipment costs are
based on lists reviewed during appraisal and current c.i.f. prices adjusted to
includ- inland transportation costs. Furniture costs are estimated at about
10% of construction costs. Equipment and materials imported under the project
would be exempt from duties and taxes. Import duties or taxes on building
materials have not been identified separately in project costs as such taxes
would be negligible. Technical assistance costs for consultants include
salaries, allowances and airfare. Unit costs for fellowships are estimated at
about US$2,100 per man-month for overseas fellowships, inclusive of
international travel, and US$150 per man-month for local training. -Physical
contingencies represent 5Z of the cost of technical assistance and salaries
and honoraria, and 10 of all other costs. Price contingencies, which equal
about 192 of the baseline cost estimate, were calculated in accordance with
the implementation schedule and the following expected annual price increases,
local - 12Z for 1984 and 10% for 1985, 1986 and 1987; foreign - 3.5% for 1984,
8Z for 1985 and 9% for 1986 and 1987.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of US$78.0 million would finance 60% of the
total project costs, including most of the foreign exchange requirements
(US$61.2 million) and 24% of the local costs of the project (US$16.6 milLion)
as well as the capitalized front-end fee (US$200,000). As the project would
meet urgent needs in human resource development and there are limits on the
Government's capacity to finance the fu'll domestic costs of such investments
from budgetary resources, Bank financing of some local costs is considered



- 20 -
essential. The project would also provide for retroactive financing of up to
US$5.0 million in eligible expenditures, incurred after April 1, 1984, in view
of the steps already taken by the Government to initiate project-related
procurement at the start of the current financial year (Schedule 1, paragraph
4, of the draft Loan Agreement.) Such early procurement was necessary to
permit project activities to proceed on the agreed schedule. The UNDP would
finance the remaining foreign exchange costs of the project by providing
US$400,000 for management services.
59.       The incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project
would be negligible as the project would not expand the number of operating
units, except for the Teachers Centers. The examinations syscem would be
largely self-financing from the fees charged to parents or examinees. The
operating costs of secondary teacher in-service training and MEC management
training would end with the completion of the two programs.
Procurement
60.       Contracts for construction of the Examinations Center building and
the combined science equipment warehouse and prototype development workshop in
Jakarta (estimated at about US$4.5 million and US$1.1 million equivalent
respectively, including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for the construction of the 190 Teachers Centers - which would be
too small and geographically dispersed to attract foreign competition - would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). Equipment and
furniture would be grouped to the extent practicable to form attractive bid
packages. Packages estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded on the basis of ICB. In the comparison of bids, locaL manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference equal to 15Z of c.i.f. costs. Equip-
ment and furniture items which cannot be grouped to form bid packages of
US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of LCB, under
government procurement procedures acceptabLe to the Bank, subject to an aggre-
gate total value not exceeding US$4.5 million equivalent (about 1OZ of the
total estimated value of equipment and furniture, including contingencies).
Miscellaneous equipment items in packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent,
and subject to an aggregate total of US$1.0 million, could be purchased off-
the-shelf on the basis of at least three price quotations. Instructional
materials and books would be procured through direct purchase after nego-
tiations for discounts. Prior Bank review of contract award recommendations
would be required for all contracts awarded on the basis of ICB. Project
expenditures by procurement category are summarized in the table below:



- 21 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure         ICB       LCB     Other      n.a.   contingencies
Buildings & site development    5.6    13.1         -         -         18.7
(1.4)   (3.2)     (-)       (-)         (4.6)
Furniture & equipment           40.0      4.5      1.1        -         45.6
(33.3)   (3.8)    (0.9)      (-)        (38.0)
Professional services             -        -       1.6        -          1.6
C-)     (-)     (0.3)      (-)         (0.3)
Technical assistance:
Specialists & fellowships       -        -      17.4       -          17.4
C-)     (-)    (14.8)      (-)       (14.8)
Local training                  -        -               43.2         43.2
C-)     (-)      C-)    (19.2)       (19.2)
Studies                         -        -       1.9       -           1.9
C-)     (-)     (0.9)      (-)        (0.9)
Salaries and honoraria            -        -        -        1.3         1.3
(-)     (-)      C-)      (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                       45.6    17.6      22.0    64.5         129.7
(34.7)   (7.0)   (16.9)   (19.2)        (77.8)
Note:  Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
n.a. = not applicable.
Disbursements
61.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of four years.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 25Z of total expenditures on
civil works; (b) 10OZ of the foreign costs of directly imported equipment and
furniture and of the ex-factory costs of localLy manufactured equipment and
furniture and 85% of the costs of locally procured equipment and furniture;
(c) 100l of the total costs of consultants' and professional services,
overseas training and studies; and (d) 50Z of the total costs of local
training (Schedule 1, paragraph 1, of the draft Loan Agreement). To the
extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in an amount
of US$100,000 or more, prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out
of the proceeds of the proposed loan. Disbursements for local training and
construction of the Teacher Centers would be against statements of expenditure



- 22 -
based upon agreed unit costs and verified by the project management
entities. Supporting documents would be retained by DIKMENUM and made avail-
able for review by visiting Bank missions. In a comparison of disbursements
for the proposed project with regional disbsursement profiles, the four-year
disbursement period is about half the average for past education projects, as
there would be relatively little major construction under the project and
implementation is already underway. The Closing Date of the loan would be
September 30, 1988.
Auditing and Reporting
62.       The three project management entities would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project expenditures. Accounts would be maintained
in accordance with sound practices. Auditing would be performed by an auditor
satisfactory to the Bank and annual audit reports would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Six months
after the Closing Date, the chairman of the steering committee would submit a
project completion report to the Bank (Sections 3.04 and 4.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
63.       The main benefit of the proposed project would be to improve the
quality of general secondary education, particularly in three difficult
subject areas - science, mathematics and English. By the end of the project
period, 42,000 teachers would have received in-service training in these
subject areas, the capacity of local manufacturers to produce quality science
equipment would have been enhanced, about 8,200 public and private secondary
schools would have been supplied with science equipment sets, and the science
equipment distribution system would have been strengthened. In addition, the
emerging national examinations system would have been enhanced by an infusion
of resources into the MEC's Examinations Center. About 250 senior MEC offi-
cials would have undergone training in professional management and planning
skills with which to increase the efficiency of MEC operations. The net
result would be to improve NEC's overall administrative capacity, in parti-
cular to meet the challenges posed by the growth of secondary education.
64.       Because this would be the first Bank-financed project in DIKNENUM
and the Examinations Center, there is a risk of some delays in implementation.
To meet this possibility, the project would include technical assistance in
project management provided by the UNDP.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article II,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special ccnditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.



- Z3 -
66.      I an satisfied that the proposed loan vould comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -R     E
67.      I recommend that the Emecutive Directors approve the proposed lo-M.
A.W. CLazsen
President
Attacbmmets
September 26, 1984
washington, D.C.
Y



- 26-                                 Alm    I
Page 1 of 5 paes
_AM (X ~    2- MO
TM                              19293   J O-O J   J *
m An  OPM                        lO                                     c i   inU
(aG cffmr. or EXL a#MLWA  0                 297 0    D .  m -LO    5aJ                f     fS_m
O- CL      n A0.L S
_       s      (    _~CMCSWS  9 0"M      0 L0                          _                       _-
=UK                              1- Sr )    11       193 9
srxczmow raro293.5caZ3                3I0217
Mm         s       s             90.        2  oms# .o _
mm              m  mmatsrr
-m s-  vim.                         493        6.        7.                "3-
moua    Axs _cz    cD-                                                             
Pin.m.8flffWsai)                 430.7   134201. 31      5              9. 0-
maE" mm       C                   14.4       17.4     227.3             347-                    665 
L6AI                                                   1_9  _ 
Ad MO. A.                         34        60.5      77.9   -        2                        3S_7
113 D.U    1   a               339.3      384       720       U     7519.
o0-I s                            r 40.    44.         5              3_0.                    20.9
15f6  Z                          53.2      -53.4    -S7                37.                     5
35     LO3.                                  2.)      3.1               3.3 -                   4.1
formuam CR  Ra n    C:}1
TOM 2.1                                     2.0      2.1               2.3                     2.4
033*                              3.7        3.6      4.5               4.3                     3.6
mm          aa1 mm (               4Dl2       41.0      33.6             30.1                    31.3
am   -3a   (PM          )          ZW_9       17.4      33.0              9.5                     8.1
-co    mmsezn   MU                  2.7        2_7       2.2              2_0                     2_0
ACE S. Al  C95                    ._       181.1   305L. 
UcS   : F 31 1OF)                   _         _.      03.0ic           52.7 I403
IEECF MM amN. MM CA?IZ
-  1.3-7-30)                        M_0     LU0 .      17.0            2=0                     1143
CAL0.R3S Cr 1   RBUMMM           44.0       96.0    110.              fl4.4                   It".
P33w Caws mE MY)                  U.S       &440      490              57.0          57-3
or MM AEIAL M  3.2*              6.0        .O       7.0 /d          14.1                    34.1
C. MD CAG  1-4) MM  AZ             22-9       16.9      30                7-2                     5-7
LUFZ mEaC. JT DIM CNARS)           4L2        47.0      53-S3             04                     3.7
DUAU? nmx lam (PER ~I)            140.9      120       102.0             34-3                    30.6
ACS To SAUO 00   (Zo)
TOM                                 -.        3.0     23.0             37-0                    354
123                                --       10.0     41.0              54.                     731
._VAL    1.0       30              26.4                    43.2
A=SSeT EX    DOSAL
Ta                                  .        15.0     23.0              U33                    52-9
Damn5                               .       19.0     20.0              47.4                    67-0
mar                                          14-0     24.0             33.3                    24.5
10rU'ATXN PM ER!SCZAE           4418.0    243100  11530.01.w           7749.4                  1317.7
br. "a aZW IF  0                 45L0.0 If  7360.0  2z300. 7-          2460.4                   815.8
vOw. P  uOSPlTAL NM-
TUETL                           1360.0     1650.0   1720. I.-        1034.2                   367.2
Uri",                           250_0               700.0             51-2                   *11-5
hAM                                -.          .   3130.0               4.6                  2X36.3
A*SKZSCS PM   SZSF6 DLD NO          _      _           22-4 /b           27.0                    27.3
AVAC smE er Or
TAL                               4.4        4 . 
*uRAS                             4.9        5_3
RAUAL                             4.3        4.7       __
AEUA0 OF 1E3S035J30a
TOTAL                              ..        1.S        _
gm..                                         1.6
Bmar.                              .         1.5
ACC TO ELEC. (C W        D.LICS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
ma,                      -._         ..       .                  __
mr._                               ..         ._       ..                 . .



- 25-                              ANN= I
Page 2 of 5 pages
-n                   - 5T  -D smz
IiIn r  _      CIZD 'MM          I.
L%Ob  0aft   =~b      Im am%          -Z    TAK3 ANE    &C
U30Cr XaIO
FRI!IIIR:  moL                   710        77.0.0           207.ILO0                        10
MALE                    0         83.0    106.0 019-9                              1063
IUlZE          S    LO0           71.0    94.0              9B.2                   IOLS
sCFmAa! TOA                       6.0       1.         . .0                                   43.2
MAlE                   10.0       20.0     36.0              4B.7                   42.3
3.0       10       24.0             43.1                    46.5
IOCA2TIOL CZ OF <    J             20.4       221                       17-S                    33.6
P,WL-1A0   RAO
PRINOB                           39.0       29.0    32.0              31                      30.1
SE                               140        13.0    16.0              23.5                   1X
AD=Z LIEACK a-T!                   39.0       56.6    62.0               2.9                    79.5
-           Dmuzinusam  0          Z_1        2.1                      Z_10                    46.0
MARIO gIUSThEOSAMA POP              7_2       21-9    42.              136                     225.
Tr      SInOS6   VW                 0.1        0.8      9.6             3.1                    107.2
-K     - CDX  LAEX
Ha Da        ULM                 11.0 __             17.741           S3.9                    63.5
CI   AAL                 rz8                     .      0.8 1            3.4                     2.8
TML   D  MM         S)          3U791.0    4110.0  5634.0
WEUE (2w)                        27.8       30_9     29.1             33.5                    23.2
;8cmzlt (l )                     i5.0       6S.0      9.0             5c.2                    3X.5
T        F (  1E)                 8.0          0     12.0       l      7.9                    29
PAncInAT. RATE PECE)36
TOM5L 36.7                                  35.. 3X                   38LT 
NJ=1                             56.2       49.5    51.1              SL.9                    49.3
F=                               20M0       21.6    20.7              2.6                     15.2
EGOl= DE?EN       V;O               1_2        1.3      1.2              1_1                      4
CZS CF r           MM
R10S5St OF i      KS               ..         ..     23.5 _-22
SIGN= 2  or iDS                    ..         _.      9.4             4o.0
1006sr 20a or sous                 .          .       6.6 it           6.A
LO       AM aF  OSE_.                         ._     14A 1a._
ws-  z  mw
LEV= C115 M  CAIA
urn.                               .-      124.0 n& 124.0 n           16.6                   2_.2
RURAL                              -.  lC6.0 7i 106.0 7F              152.0                  1860
ESTlKATD REzLXE 108151? 1C
LEWD. COSS PE3 CAPA)
05                                 ..          .      9.0 it          17.9                   522.
rURAL                              ..         ..       .0o 7r         164.6                  372.4
TErITaA   r.  cW  a3SOUM
0335                               _.       51.0 /I  26.0 nl          23.4
AL                      _.                   9.07   4.0               37.7
Mr ATAIXMAN
0r APPLICABLE
SaTES
te SCOW aWWpnu fer _aCk Indicator are p_p_luc-we*d artbheec sama. C. eaOf .. cmfe  e,,,N the
tIdlctors depends a_ awallabllty of data ad is not waifoEm.
/b  Unlas otbarwle noted. -3eA for 1960- refer to aV year betwee 1959 end 1961; *3eta fOr 190 betu 16 e"
1971; and data for 'be 3ent EsUtinte- btweem 1   and 1962.
Ic  1963; Id 1977; Ic 1979; /f 1962;  t 1976; /b 1975; tt 1980 pres.
R 1984



-26 -                                           AM    I
_- >_,                               Page 3 of 5 pages
a.       - di.___.  a__f____                 _ -        ____   -      aut_Ys__ a-        ma    . a.  -. _    .4 _f        t
-        a-a -   .   ..ama                -         _       a.     __                         _         _ a  --a.  4.-.  .-a _ -.4. .
co~~~ asm   -p -.                                cm. ~ -    -   -a
a    -   - U) ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~  - a-        aa-                                       Ia -0   -  --    --    -    a-
daa- I-a-f-~a.  5                       -~  ala. a."`-             ,. d--"          ma a       -   a   ..t                
- - 4      --                         _     _             .-                 ..    -          -     a..
a.. .a- -.1-ft  -. _ _ _ _    a.saw._MM _- _..                                                                   _--
- -at a.5.a  -  eatala a. -  ida.    a..                -.VWaS ...    lS
C3      -.0m lain.           ---it..    --I. -~La.a ~
1.-  - a -                                                             gala -       alal.a-Wa.  -              a.z -gala Snai
a-. -    &4 . lb   -                      ... L%  -4
-~ ~ .a f-il. 1 - 145W o- .S    _aSW                456.                          14   1 aS .....     _   a _      n        _W _ .dR.
_14 a  aS.. 1145 _mt               _        t            .       =. -        1- -  4ffi4 = _
O..Lttea  "_ bw-_ s_ _                                 wm,       _      -f          ,         _,_
_W..  M                       - S- -            =                          -        = ,.. 16   ,- _-                      . -SI-
-'.ftat~ _  - 1                                                                             . _. _-_. .=l  --r,
_.   - '.                     aS~  S          -..~                                 -- ,.         -a  g-~a  a           -  a   X___
aS  .., NW                                                                    4   - aDSMa--      .  4aa.s-   dIa-.VW
P~~~ t-       r 11-                          pwa-     1-          5 ldi
- -  d--%WNW   m .  _W. -                             --  .-          _
.0-am Man- 2. ffmuw -am . 9-- a.-L - aS e5SW
I....i...I  5       %.5a.)-144 -              l                        -   a..C           5-   .   i-al                 4
-_   __,_  r. SW. a-  -                           _                           N _. t. _ B_ O  =_ -  - q_ 
_ -  . - - _   -- a  D                          -t  _
_ _  -__      _       ft- S*                                        __
_~~~~~~~~~~w..aS- 9t                                             FM-      -I:                            daJft- e _ _ 
W    -ft-                               as..-f    .S1 mla 
_   a _      aa, _  .   m_a if  -                             a...
W-  S."             al 0towm- W0 ON.L0       V.-                          .wi-r.a.- -                  s       a
114 f- af                                    v ah,- ia   as.      .   .       .aa   aE4    -l
_             _- no. -a    _              . _" f   ft  _
-   a--  a.           a. aS45-.e..   a.-  Col.
_.            _mgal_ _ _, _S __U    a-           _
V-61-2    -NI I-     -54    i -ffn. Sibel)",                         .4 nin4                   -a  .a.  rI--             -
Sm_ a.          _-   _ __         _a  _l.                              W    _.       3           s a -            ,. _1                    -_
-     .U-  14~~~ a.SW .  a                I                        1025-a.                        .         
*-   *. ,-    -     *W   nm    .6.  a-    -  -                   *           . a -m    a-     a. ..          .i
- - S. -i    S -         --            - -                 a. - -  - a. -   F .S - b.
_%. ff 4.0m.-  mu m-                  4 0--     0-6        f AVW                     L  Ct
- a -            a-5 a a- s-                                l- -          - s        -        -   - -. 
f-MW a0a  --M 7 a- Pa-.a*4 --.45"996 ...lam  la.                      S    =       -axl 4-     -                mp - . .  u.ia4-1
_im-                4-    M        _      ,  <,                 _.M  M--  ~   .dwro                           ,      V. ft --o-
5  -   f-   ialS    -  ~~~~ la dWs ftaS                           Su..    N..w ft-    i.nmSf
is..      alaa  -         -wema -     t..a-.aa
P ..      ... _     -i- .          _    S      - _*          _                .      ...      ...-.           ..      ....
a        i  a. 5*5111 _sa   - *t          Si  lie.                    l.y4)        -_ .               a
_et-ri-vl,                                       .         e-1 _- .f- .  - --*-     -'
- -. - -   .  .414514 a   -fta-   -at- L-.-.-V--Lft                                                         -b-
_- __               ftf   ft u                   W-_                  e        _ _      _ T.   __ _- _. tw  _ :.ft
i~ lWS~ aS 5W a..                                 1i i5.f...Pa. Sr...     Z.-   sl. .  a.- .          E)-
_ _-._ -  .t .I _~ _   _   _ -   S  .CS-w.pS  .                                      - d-_i     .Mt      fl         -        N
s..a - 2          S0  _     -   -ma.   LNG-".    .  ^               ___ _ _ __rr.-_       -   -
flL -    -_, fi | _ e_ Z_ _tr tr_ *_ -      -  u-.r _5              5**                             -                u-  m
....W         M                  W - a     *-   I S- _S- P-      __  _         _
a"  ginla- a.0o--a  on-am*  wftwl.%                                   i-I. 1  W-6u  Im   ..         i  -at      .          f4  a.
pm,-    "- aS    -,W mm   -    .5   ." ..*t                         a     -        a. .     a-al .            to-. 1-~
_          L   - t.                                                                           U a .             E        . _
-____   -_____ -&-  tie  viau                      S                           .Ma-- -t  -.LS   "-  IS -manS -                -
-      _5   144-.  * >.-451  "tW           . ._
_________*X>__                __ -   a           -sa  _lina.a.         _                             -          . .   W5..A s -
_ f- -U                a, mmaa~, a_ __
-_ se                    W                  _,  - _. -7s.-- r                      .LT                       -      .
ama_ -               -,   a   -  a.             -C.____> - __                                                     _a
a- in.lir  S-.* 7`. Saa,m ." -.SW. 'i,aEm-as                                                a              iEa        am
SW.- Pm-"                                                                   i   d iSm~ML45', W  . -F W              U R-a. La.aa
21,fto U_24 o                       - fisu _7 ._                       -_4 % W.      S       .. 11.4  f_. _ _,_
~bSW.ii6t4Ii5IM-4a, 01.                                           C..-    ' -      C. W =-        -am  
w-a..                                                                    a. a. diil           . le.la   a-.a - dual ala---
_t. sia-   m.. I*i       C   l.5    .    .. orm                        as  _a__                               _
01 -11 .i 1 2m-b.. =           g.-     Ale.   W "- . - .-    * 
sq- f-  at _ _._ ..  .m.l .3..W.... .....  f                 C      . l-.   -. _    S_ _ _
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b                                             _r _     __
_ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~~~~~~~~..1   n.bEtli  S ni i _ _     _     _S_                    ._.
__ iW. Sin a t-t a_m
W__ ____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                        a ss.  I_   *   _   5      5  . a   a. 55 5
Lp-aft  M   --  - .a   % -  M M-                 a--a, S e a                            ..I.i  ...s..  ss 
saaB   - l.a           _.    __.           pisa. _-..             o_n_   _ .i.                    - _  u  t _ S a  lii  a._s_
_--_-- ... _ _ S.              _. W                                                    a M--  - *_s.        .5 _  _  _ ,
_10-           .i,                                              - _._  _.  a _  _  .    .Er
- -ama,    _                -S   _t     C __ a-   s   _.                                  a         .  .  a *        .
a.a. a               .aa     s. a-as.   a            -              a     -  -  as            .-
a. _ _                 _         - _m_ a,in a.      laaSa-      as       eEa-m..al                   5.      . S         _al 
_a __f__ a_                      _ _0 s _               _ lm.-.   a- .   .  .a___.l l                   as.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __.i5   as fnS-    _.                                 ma.. am        aa_mn~   a...                a4   -a
S a .5 .me-_ aam_  a,t_.Z e . _, alala                                  a-I_ _._
__a                    -s                     __m    a a_, _a.u.a                                               _ _. ._s, a... nar_  __ _t 
_.  _.  7   a-   a_ _a. _ sm.   S    Ia                             11.  _ai           5.. _s _.   - i-c _S   _-
amA  a_ imla  .         a  _46-S t_1  a 141                astmI   a.  _ia _              t_ t   4.a ..a m   I_ *_
M_t ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          a  tat  a.Ja     a ma -9 -, _4 _- .- -._
lefam IStdt 145 ISIf taa .     . -   a-a _1,a _    ,_
_ea              _. _in.   ._. a. _S as di.
_   a_ __ ~       l -  _a pl-a _a . _a.  a .. _
a..i.   .-            a a-        ma, _.aimt 
a, -            -
a.-al.a  .. a- -a . as.....S                         i-
.in- au- --S



AhiE I
-27 -                                          Page 4 of 5 Pages
ENDCXESIA -ECONOIC ISDICArOmS
Anoqnt
(uilloiu ass at                         PAnmal growth rate (2) la
corrent pries)                           Actual                         Estim.ared projected
indicator                         1982         1975  1976  1977   1978  1979  1980  1981   1982   1983  1984  1985
Cross dnmcstic product lb       90.216        5.0   6.9   8.9   7.7   6.3   9.9   7.9  -0.1    4.5   5.5   4.7
Agriculture                   23.703        0.0   4.7   1_3   5.2   3.9   5_2   4_9    1.8   3.0   3.5   2.0
Indostry                      34,638        5.6  11.1  14.2   8.7   7.1  12.5   8.5  -6.9   5.6   8.1   5.3
Services                      31.875       10.1   5.9   12,5   9.2   7.7   11.8   9.8   5.5   4.3   4.2   4.8
_.        Ceousoptio                      73n377        6.4   7.9   5.6   8.9  13.6  13.1  15.8   3.2   0.5   3.9   3.0
Cross inuest ent                20,373       14.6   6.0  16.0  15.0   4.4  17.7  11.1  13.0  -5.4   4.0   4.0
Exports of CKFS                 20,189       -2.4  17.0   9.5   1.0  -0.1  -5.7  -2.4 -12.0   13.9   6.4   4_8
Ixports of QIFS                 23.723       11.7  16.8   4_4  12.7  22.5  16.9  Z7.1   2.9  -7_4             -  -1.3
Gross nattonal savings          13.R77      -16.3  142   30.2 -17.5  62.5  33.2 -20.0 -22.6   14.6   9_8    5.0
PRICES
GOP deflator (1973 - 100)                     166   190   214   238   315   407   448   504   585   644   695
Exchange rate                                 415   415   415   44Z   623   627   632   661   910
Sare of GDP at rnket prices (:)
(at current prices)                       Average annual Increase (X) /a
1960  1970  1975  1960  1985  1990          1960-70   1970-75  1975-80   1960-85   1985-90
Cross domestic prodoct        100   100   100   100   100   100            3.9       S.4       7.4       4.6       4.9
Agriculture                  54    47    32    25    25    23            2.7       4.1       3.3       3.4       3.7
In*zstry                     14    18    34    43    39    40            5.2      12.0       9.8       3.7       5.2
Services                     32    35    35    32    36    37            4.8       9.7       9.5       5.9       5.5
-oasu tion                   91    89    79    71    74    73            4.1       8.4       9.2       4.7       4_8
cross investment              8     14    20    21    22    22           4.8      18.3      12.2       6.4       5.4
Exports of GaS               13    13    23    31    27    26            3.6       9.2       2.9       1.8       4.4
rmports of CNFS             -13   -16   -22   -22   -22   -21            3.2      22.1      14.0       3.3       4.1
Gross national savings        8      9     17    26    22    23          6.1      23.1      14.Z       1.5       5.8
As _  of CDP
MO6              1970              1975              1980             1982
PUULIC FIAUNCE
Current revue                              11.7              10.1             17.4              22.5              20.8
Current expenditures                       14.0              8.4               9.9              12.8              13.1
Surplus C+) or deficit C-)                 -2.3             +1.6              +7.5              +9.7              +7.7
Capital expenditure                         n.&-             5.0              11.3              13.0               8.0
Forelgn financEng                           0.2               3.5              3.7               3.3               0.3
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80         1980-85         1985-90
OIEE 3NDICATOS
Annual GCP growth race (Z)                        4.5             7.6            7.1            4.5             5.0
Annual GYP per capica growth rate (Z)             2.4             5.1            4.7            2.4             2.8
Annual energy consumption growth race (2)         2.2            11.2            11.0           1.51d           4.9
ICOR                                              2.2            2.2             3.3            5.3             4.4
varginal savings rate                             0.30           0.48            0.28           0.28/e          0.301e
Import elasticity                                 1.2            2.8             0.84           0_5             0.84
ls At constant 1973 prices for 1975-81. *and 1981 prices for 1982-85.
lb At market prices.
7e  Central Government only. on an April-to-M4rch fiscal year basis.
7   i981-85.
Te  For the last year of che perIod.
East Asia and Pacific Region
Ar-fl 26, 1966



bopolazs    1: 52.6 m1Ilon (md-ism                                                                 Ao   I
carer  rpt:a 053 C1S2 s2 )te)                                                                         s; s i
I5ISA 3- LAC OF PN4UI  AD CIL CDrn                    A  m35
Om     MsS -z t   e    pe1o)
Actual                              E     e        trol d
i071    197S    1979       w0    191        12 *113                        190
36UAME OF PAUt.A
1_ EMorts                         I0.06   1 .353   18.310  223   22.99    1347  19.70  22.23    22.69   435
(a) Ott ma (= (ar7,354   7.3N4  12.34   17.2D7   1.34   14.743 14.34   15.422   1.2   31,2
Cb) bool                        3.507   3.979   6.171    .W      4.170   3,34  5.17 )   S,.        6.756    340
2. Isports cIseZdlmost OM         1110,446 -.-1113 -13.205 -17.3,9 -22.Z52  -22.341 -1t9.93 -21.4   -23.7  -39.114
Ca)  Oil setor                -2,99  -3-20   -2._60  -4.5   -5.407  -4_  2  4.730  -4.2    -4.001  -9035
(b)  _ol   2                  -72U   -7_53  -49.0   -11b37 -14_3        -I -1%U4-1.043  -134-3  -15.115  -231510
(C) Ws tot)                     -53      -537  -1.2v7  -Z.,    -2.60S  -171   -1.4,   -1.49  -.21,  -.5
3. fosoure baue                      175    -10   5,305   S,296        422  -31703   -243       S6      741   6.718                                  -
4. Factor      e                    -65  -1.015  -3.20   -3.165  -3.,42  -3.705 -4.009    4.,A   -4.82   -4.406                                      ,
C.) Interst puble d-I                    -18s    -635    -Mn   -977  -1,161 -1.17 -               -1.4fA  -2.393
(bh  Ocber Cmc)                 -524    -3S0  -2.471  -7.44I  -2,65   -2,95  -2.901   -2.929  -3.119  -14.010
5. 8pic      z6                                46      52      76       67      lOS     95      Ioo     11o      1
6. Baane ec _co e                   -21  -1.109   72251   237   -2.933  -.303 -4S  -36               -3.92   -.S0
7_ Direct fave1gsmaostr              305      271     217      140     342      311    231      400     SO        DO
8_ Public 11  LT tl1
Ca) D     1_shrsmn              1,956   1.633   1.93    2364   2.566   4.250  4.93    5.106   5.166   6.t1
(b) _o2es7t           7        7 -33     0977  -Z1.       -'   -1.001   -1.148 -1.541   -1.93?  -Wi  -4.d2,
(C) Net dLsburss                1,131     440     40o  t1.77   1.36S   3,1e2  3.40   3.17t   2.955   1.M
9. OCher Capital ("mt)              -rAO      we  -1.303   i,488       258    s5o  2.223                639      S21
1a. (haag La ruserwes (- Iserose)   -633    -70   -10  -2.736           SW    3.30 -.6739         71    -121    -67
11. Nec offIal resres               2.PI    2916   4.06   7342   6_354   3.004  43   4.612   6,733   5640
Resersus in moohe Of soolt
- 5o                   3.4      4.3     S.4      6.5     4.4      2.1    3.7      3.s     3.3      2.3
fosouu Icen,
Sec fors  assres of the bo1sg
.7-t-ib                             -        -   6.906   10.787  11.154   6.321  *355   3 2         3.40S   931
Ibst reserss is otc_  of ooll
I-arc-s   W5                      3.4    4*3       6.1      9.6     7.8      4.3   46        6.3     S.9      3.7
EmEAL CITAL A= 063
Cruse DIs   1m356   2 20S   IMS   2 S                         53    2 566 *2
Communicant Zas                              484                    -aT     W  6w
ULarfl                                   =                        TXNF 71   W
DYt                              49       29      30       42       9       78
OtOar                             12       6        5       6       5        4
vio cgomcsanl L                    I.514    1 721   1.432     1S      774   3 S1=2
ffl.. e.r c         s              271     1         bT  4
25                                 191      U      19"      331     314      SOS
Other  ltI3.scerel                   16       12      44       52      aS      126
Priute-uegrce                      1.9    I.270   1.1226   1.449   3.210   2464
fuern_l Deft
Deft @ Sdmwug mad dt"uroWd  11 658  13 107  13 t236  t4.82   15.737  108426
Debt ost-stourcgai dt 4s'adI    aM   15i~    8,434   9,4003  10.114   11.129
rat                           4.3   4,717   4.79   5.482   5.623   7.297
Undtsbsr.d debt                 4475    5.83    7.932   9.4S4  11,354  12.435
Deft Ser C
Toal servIce payests             1.262  2.06 2   2100   1.772   1.977   Z,3D6
losCrasm                        4I       514     77!      819     977   1.160
Payments a    0 of emparts/.      11.6    13.2    11.3      7.7     B.6    12.4
A`er*ee Interest Fte us Nev Loans
Cl)                               6.3      7.6     6.6      8.2     8.4      9.4
OF ICI    .                       S.       4.6     5.0      5.5     7.9      9.0
Fritt                             31.6    10.2     3.6    U2.3      9.Z      9.7
*Dt.-It of OmLas
(Yes)                             20.5 1Z   . MS    18.    33.6    15.2    1.O
OffIctal-seurce                   21.8    30.1    26.8    24.1    20-6      2.4_
Prvas-source                      9.1      I.7    1.0       9.9    I0S      10.8
An : of debt outstandling me sd of 192W
Mcsrity structure of debt uscstmdieg
eturitlSs dee VtebS. 5 years                                                                    40
ldtrrien, &e wI'tb. 10 years                                                                    69
Interest scrttue of debt Custasilug
IDtermst dee withbi flret year                                                                 S.7
/a  Cas Apr l-to-brch fIscal Ye       .
7; Includes foeign assets of depost wmos baska in addittio  to offtcia r
7  Tealsdss private ugomoruenend Ia.
7i At mod of pertod.
7; OIL e orts treated on ross basi-
Lust Asia and Paecflc Nlttt
April 24, 194



29 -
Page 1 of 4 pages
TIM STD  OF BDN GROP OPERATIOnS 1N   DNESIA
A.  sTENT OF BN LOANS AND IDk CREDITS (as of Ularch 31, 1984) la
s15$ illion
V'     Loan/                                                                Ahomt
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less c    lo)
Number  Year              Purpose                        Bank    IDA   Undis bursed
Nineteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed 876.0    544.1        -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                  -      14.6       0.4
1100  1975   SIxth Irrigation                            65.0       -        5.0
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Napping          13.0       -        0.9
1237  1976   Fourth Education                            37.0       -        2.6
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                          33.0       -        4.6
1337  1977-  Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0       -        2.3
1365  1977   Sixth Pover                                116.0       -       21.4
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0       -        3.5
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.0       -       19.7
1435  1977  Ninth Irrigation                             35.0       -        2.9
1472  1977   Second Population                           24.5       -        6.0
1486  1978  Non-Formal Education                         15.0       -        2.2
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Sallbolders 1            65.0       -       18.2
1513  1978   Seventh Power                               94.0       -       25.8
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                  -      40.0       7.2
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.0       -       86.3
1579  1978  Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0       -        8.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                  -      30.0       2.1
1604  1978  Nucleus Estate & Smallbolders I}             65.0       -       40.3
869  1979   Polytechnic                                   -      49.0      18.8
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.0       -       37.9
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                     54.0       -       17.3
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                    -      10.0       7.1
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.0       -       26.5
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.0       -        9.7
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                              123.2       -       55.8
1703  1979   Fourth BAPIDDO                              50.0       -        3.4
919  1979   Transaigration II                             -      67.0       8.3
1707  1979   Transulgration II                           90.0       -       87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                               175.0       -       51.5
1709  I979   Second Water Supply                         36.0       -       14.7
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                  -      12.0       7.9
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & SmaLlbolders III           99.0       -       50.2
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                -      45.0      30.0
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 30 -
AME II
Page Z of 4 pages
USS million
Loan/                                                               Aounmt
Credit Fiscal                                                (less cancelations)
Number  Year              Purpose                         Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
-                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       45.0      22.8
996  1980   National Agriculture Extensio  II             -       42.0      34.6
lBll 1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.0        -       72.2
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Susllbolders IV            42.0       -        33.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research              35.0        -       35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.0      14.1
1869  1980   Third Population                            35.0        -       27.0
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                253.0        -      122.3
1898  1981   Sallholder Coconut Developmet               46.0        -       35.6
1904  1981   University Developmet                       45.0        -       41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                250.0        -       87.8.
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.0        -       15.3
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Developuent                    43.0        -       32.2
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Sallholders V            161.0       -      130.9
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Developmet         106.0        -       13.9
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highwy                     85.0        -       80.1
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                              170.0       -      127.0
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                 15.0       -       14.5
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Miniag
Developmet & transport                   185.0        -      132.5
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                    100.0       -        76.3
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                     80.0        -       79.6
2102  1982   Second Textbook                              25.0       -       25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.0        -       30.2
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                       70.0       -       60.8
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.0       -       59.5
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI              68.1        -       65.9
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.0       -       23.3
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                     5.5       -        4.6
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                               300.0       -      286.5
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Saaalbolders VII           154.6       -      152.3
2235  1983   Provinclal Health                            27.0       -       26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                22.4       -       22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                          101.0       -       87.8
2258  1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.0       -       29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java rater Supply I                     30.6       -       30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                   208.9       -      195.8
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                            63.5       -       62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.4       -      107.1



- 31 -
ANIM II
Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ uillon
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number  Year              Purpose                        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983  Thirtee   Power                             279.0       -      277.5
2341  1984  Third Agriculture Training                   63.3       -       63.1
2344  1984  Niucleus Estate & Smallbolder Sugar          79.2       -       75,8
2355  1984   Second Non-Formal Education                 43.0       -       42.9
2375  1984   Second Provincial Irrigation /a             89.0       -       89.0
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         6,204.1    928.7
Of which has been repaid                  -292.7   -11.3
Total now outstanding                    5,911.4    917.4
Amount sold to third party       28.2
Amount repaid by third party   -28.2        -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b         5,911.4   917.4
Total undisbursed                        3,581.2   153.3   3,734.5
/a   Not yet effective.
/b  Prior to eebange adjustment.



-32 -
0UE  II
Page 4 of 4 pges
B. SAEMENr OF IFC IVESTS (as of Narch 313 1984)
Fiscal                              Type of           Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor               busilness         -    (CSS i1illou0)
.-V
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement            10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unites                 Textiles           2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles            2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia        Cable              2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Nanuf. Corp.        Textiles            4.5      1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta rnt. Hotel    Tourism             9.8       1.6      11.4
1973   P.T. Sewen Cibinong         Cement             5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Prilatexco Indonesia  Textiles            2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Mousanto Pan           Electronics        0.9       -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                  Devel. Fin. Co.    -         0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Ka=altex               Textiles           2.4       0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement             5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              -        1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.        Textlles            0.4       -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles           1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                Textiles           0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papaa Sejahtera        Capital Market     4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo Americ3n
Industries          Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas          Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material        48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market      4.0       0.3       4.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement            25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                      142.6     19.6      162.2
Less: sold or repaid and cancelled           100.8      6.5      107.3
Total held by IFC                             41.8      13.1      54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 8.0                  8.0



-33-                          ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:              14 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:              MEC assisted by UNESCO
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                 July 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         December 1983
(e)  Date of departure of post-appraisal mission:   April 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:             September 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  December 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementatioa Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) carry out a Ministry of Education training needs assessment and an
education sector management study in accordance with terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1985 and December 31,
1986 respectively (para. 51); and
(b) appoint staff to the additional positions being established in the
Examinations Center in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 53).



THAILAND   ir                                       no-                              115-
{DO    ceh A*                            h
U                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Br..,-.
-outh   -China    Sea                             BRUNEI-SW
12 |ALAYSIA |                                                                                                                                  (
KuOJO Lumpir                                                               - 
1                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-6 MALAYSIA   )
~-Stblgp 
8    2\~ ~-SINGAPORE
Poationak 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             Swnsa u 
padaong? (
7    r    - -  _  N 3 PW >,     K AINGK
(~~ 7  Jtz  t4NG<             <     ~ ~17                  4   J 
t |                '~~~  1S,      n       xJ   -          //EXrfc                     |       /          L         ,uF~L   Pu now"
I JAWA TIMUR                    Beng               To
2 JAWA TEIGIAH                          N-
3 JAWA BARAT
g OK0I JAKARA                                   I
S Of VOGOJAIARTA                                           (-A)
6 SUATERA UTARA                                                     ,                     1    a jo      a                  S   e   o         ujg PaC
S JARI                                               ga
*R AU                                              '  _.1          <
S UATERA BARAT                                                      4 'JAKCAR_4
t SUATERA SELATAN R5                                                           J A W A
12 AWrE
73  ENGKULU                                                                        J.                            AADUA
U4 KALIA?TAIN OARAT                                                     3
15 KCAULIAITAI T111UR                                                                   2 Bwxkhl
16 ICALIIIANTANi SELATAS4
17 KALIIJVTAlt TENGA"                                                   -
to SULAWESI SELATAX                                                     _AJJ                                                                  uuArYA
19 SULAWESI TENGAN
20 SULAWESI TENGGARA
21 SULAWS UTARA-
22 LILUKO
23 IIALUU !                                              Ld an             O         e  a n                            D-npsar
_ to-   M USA TENGGARA KARAT
25 TENCGARA TIMUR
26 IRIAN JAYA
n27 TIMOR TMUR
KITE T7_ .W _
C_ ~ ~ ~ ~~to                                          los                               lao-_ _  __-



IBRD1831
120            -2? li13                                                                                   135'                                1Ac       AUUUV is
INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES                                                             SECONDARY EDUCATION AID MANAGEMENT
_3 ,--/                                                                                                TRAINING PROJECT
NUMBER OF lEACHERS CENTERS TO BE
CaONSTRtlCrED IN EACH PROVINCE
J  ^   SCIENCE EOUIPMENT-PROITVPE WORKSHOP
/                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANtD CENTRAL WAREHOUSE
/U*    EXAINArIO NsCENTER
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Meodo                                                                - ---    IfTERNATIONAL DOODAPIES
HALMAHERA                                                                                     c
*21
r   Gtontille                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mooku
SM 22                   (                       26          \
(j)       (il *)   \                                  !                                             _Joy0pur0
S.5 U L A WESI U-Aj
Fakfa k
Nobire         IRIA   V ArA                  i  <r
l.A)    KendUri                       B aU                                                                  Enorotoli                        I 
vAats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    . -'                                                                     2S.-. 
-- 1  .Merauke 
I.--       IOtF          -- 
Moumere   Atarnu_
k.                                            0          0oo      200        300                  500
25  q                                                                                                         i 27V '   M:LES
Kupong      r    IA2FEOI
0    100   200   300   400 CO    O   600
j                    ~~~~~~KI LOMETERS
20'                                  125'                                 130'                                 135'                                U






