Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10742
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
JUNE 12, 1992
I'41 gC1kF1 C.4  GJUP;Y
MIC~ ~ 10I U       N) f  e    P 
RepU~   Nu  lO7Z  YN   ~yp-~.(PCR)
A, . t- )': 77 p~  omT901i7 DOPt
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Rupiah
Rate of exchange
Appraisal (December 1983)                 $1.00  =  Rp 1,000
January 31 1983 to September 11, 1986   $1.00  =  Rp 1,100
September 12, 1986                        $1.00  =  Rp 1,640
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - M3rch 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BALITBANG    -  Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Development,
MOEC
BAPPENAS     -  National Development Planning Board
DIKMENUM     -  Directorate General for Primary and Secondary Education
DPDOS        -  Data Processing DIKMENUM Operational System
GSEI         -  General Secondary Education in Indonesia-Issues and Program
Action
EDC          -  Examination Development Center
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
GTZ          -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
IDIS         -  SOIS/PKGIS integrated
IKIP         -  Teacher training institute
LAKEPRO       -  Budget Analysis System
LCB          -  Local competitive bidding
MMS           - Material Management System
MOEC          - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
PCR          -  Project Completion Report
PIU          -  Project Implementation Unit
PKGIS        -  PKG/SPKG Information System
PPR          -  Supply of Science Equipment by School Response
PMCC         -  Project Monitoring and Coordination Committee
SAR          -  Staff Appraisal Report
SAS          -  School Administration System
SMA          -  Senior General Secondary Education
SMP          -  Junior General Secondary Education
SPG          -  Primary Teacher Training Institute
PKG          -  In-Service Teacher Training Program
Sanggar      -  Teacher trai.iing center
SEKNEG       -  State Secretariat
SETJEN       -  Secretariat General, MOEC
SOIS         -  School Operation Information System
SPKG         -  In-Service Teacher Training Program-Sanggar-based
SPP          -  Public School Fees contributed by parents
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
e of Dlretof.G.neral
.-atmns Evalutatin
June 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDONESIA
Secondary Education and Management Training Project (Loan 2472-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on INDONESIA - S3condary Education and Management Training
Project (Loan 2472-IND)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie.s. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANNGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PRE,ACE ..               ...           ........ .    .            1
?ROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY  .................    iii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .     1
1. Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2. Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . a . . . . . . . .     3
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
4. Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .     4
5. Project Implementation   ...       . . . . . . ...          5
6. Project Results . . . . .   . . . . . ... . ..     . . . . .  .  8
Teacher Training  .......        .. ..................      8
Supply of School Science Equipment  . . . . . . . . . .     9
Examinations Development  .   .                 9 . . ...  10
Sector Managemert Training Program  . . . . . . . . . .    11
Pre-Investment St.idies and Project Evaluation . . . . .    12
7. Project Sustainability  . . . . . .   . . .......          13
8. Bank Performance  *.9  99....... 0 0.......... ...         13
9. Borrower Perfcrmance  .................                    14
10. Consultant Services  .    . . .  ............              16
11. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
12. Project Relationship   . *    . .... ....... . . ..        17
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .    19
13. Project Organization and Structure  . . . . . .   .   . .  19
14. Civil Works . . . . . . 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
15. Equipment, Books and Furniture  . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
16. Consultants and Professional Services, Overseas   . .
Training and Studies  . ..999999999999. 99. 999.      23
17. Local Training  . . . . . .  . . .  .. . . . .. ... ....   28
18. Project Management, Monitoring and Supervision  ...  .    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



III.  STATISTICAL IINFCRMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Table ..   Related Bank Loans and Credits in the Secondary
Education Subsector. .  . . . . . . .    . . .           33
Table 2.   Project Timetable        .        . . ... .                 34
Table 3.   Loan Disbursements  . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Table 4.   Project Implementation Goals:  Planned vs. Actual . . .    35
Table 5.   Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
Table 6.   Project Results .         .     . . . * . . . . ... . .     39
Table 7.   Status of Covenants . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .    42
Table 8.   Use of Bank Resources . . ..          . .  . . . . . . . .    43
Annex      Project Components of the Second Project  . . . . . . .    45



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Secondary Education
and Management Training Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2472-IND in the
amount of $78.0 million was approved on October 16, 1984. The loan was closed
on September 30, 1990, two years behind schedule. The last disbursement was
made on February 14, 1991, with an amount of $1,362,850.48 canceled.
The PCR was prepared jointly by staff from the East Asia and Pacific
Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department III (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III), and the Ministry of Education and
Culture of the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, project files of the Bank and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda. The PCR also draws from previous Project Performance Audit
Reports.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives: The main objectives of the project were to assist the
Government to improve the quality of general secondary education and thereby
raise the quality of Indonesia's human resources for economic development, and
to strengthen management and planning skills at senior levels in the education
sector (para. 3.1). These objectives were to be achieved primarily through:
providing in-service teacher training in science, mathematics and English;
expanding training of prcvincial school supervisors and headmasters; producing
school science equipment prototypes; procuring new stocks of school science
equipment and strengthening its distribution, storage, and maintenance
systems; developing and operating a more effective national school examination
system; undertaking a training needs assessment and a management study; and
p.'oviding fellowships for managerial and planning staff (para. 3.2).
Implementation Experience. The project was generally implemented as
planned, albeit with t-,o years delay partially due to budgetary and management
problems, although the three-and-a-half year project implementation period was
unrealistic (para. 5.10). Assistance for teacher training, science equipment
supply, examinations and management is being continued under the follow-up
project (para. 5.11).1/
Results. The project had a positive impact through the upgrading of
120,000 teachers in English, mathematics and science (para. '.4). The
strengthening of the teaching of the national language (Bahasa Indonesia) was
initiated. Science equipment was supplied to 8,600 secondary schools and more
effective supply and replenishment approaches were developed (para. 6.5).
Data collection for management decisions was improved (para. 6.11). The
Project assisted with the rationalization of examinations and with the
Ministry of Education and Culture's (MOEC) review of its management practices
(paras. 6.8 and 6.10). National training programs in examinations were
undertaken and overseas fellowships for over 900 fellows supported (para.
6.8). Generally the project targets were achieved although many problems were
encountered with the organization of examinations, effective use of technical
assistance and project management, the latter due to the many changes in
project implementation staff (para. 9.1).
Sustainabilitv (para. 7.1). Efforts were made during implementation to
link the teacher's upgrading activities to teacher organizations and to
institutionalize the data collection and supply of science equipment. Steps
j/   Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 3158-IND).



- iv -
to ensure the sustainability of these activities were also built into the
follow-up Project. Tha examination nrocess is already being regionalized
under that Project and examinations staff trained nationally. Almost
100 percent of the fellows who studied abroad are employed by the MOEC, and
the management analysis resulted in an integrated management policy change and
led to a skill analysis in all MOEC units under the second project. This has
resulted in mo.e hands-on management training programs. The studies resulted
in teacher payment and pcAicy changes. It is expected that under the Second
Secondary Project all the major components will be sustained.
Lessons Learned (para. 8.2). (i) The Bank should be careful to avoid
centralizing activities, stuch as the examinations system, when national
decentralization is being implemented; (ii) quality improvement projects are
complex and therefore require more implementation time than normal; (iii) the
MOEC cannot continue to change project staff almost annually if it wants to
improve the management of project activities and their sustainability;
(iv) unless the MOEC increases its inter-directorate coordination, education
quality improvements will be difficult to achieve; (v) the formalization of
equipment procurement and distribution processes better responding to
individual school needs is positive, although such steps are difficult to
achieve without the institutionalization of procedures and adjustments in the
types and numbers of permanent staff needed; (vi) the procurement review
process withir, the MOEC needs to be streamlined to speed-up processing and
avoid duplication of efforts; (vii) to ensure the application and
sustainability of new programs at the school level teacher trainers and
supervisors must be involved; (viii) permanent arrangemer.ts should be
established for the maintenance of school science equipment; (ix) the MOEC
should be cautious about prototype equipment development since it is not in a
favorable situation, with its limited resources and staff, to compete against
international industries; however, as the implementation of quality control
results in cost savings and improves the quality of resources delivered to
schools, it should be continued; (x) training programs should include a higher
percentage of representatives from the provinces where the programs are being
implemented; (xi) to improve the effective use of rucurning fellows, re-entry
plans, particularly at the provincial level, should be developed; and
(xii) the Government and MOEC should adopt more flexible budgetary allocation
procedures to allow budgetary adjustments to take place during the fiscal year
rather than, as is often the case, having to wait until the next fiscal year's
budget.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project name         : Secondary Education and Management Training Project
Loan number          : 2472-IND
RVP unit             : East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, Country
Department III
Country              : Indonesia
Sect                 : Education
Subsector            : Secondary educution
2. Proiect Background
2.1       Sector Development Objectives.  The rapid growth experienced in
Indonesia during the 1970s and the virtual achievement of universal primary
education resulted in a high demand for secondary education. In 1984, the
development of secondary education had become a priority. However, the need
for such expansion was coinciding with the drop in oil prices, seriously
constraining the Government's financial capacity. In view of the limited
financial resources, the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) and the
World Bank undertook a review of the secondary subsector and a Bank report
entitled General Secondary Education in Indonesia--Issues and Program Action
(GSEI) was completed on July 26, 1984. An action program was prepared, and on
that basis the first secondary education subsector project was prepared.
2.2       The GSEI report identified that enrollments had gror,E. from 13.0
million children in 1972 to about 25.0 million in 1982/83 at the primary level
and had tripled from 1.4 million in 1971 to 4.3 million at the junior
secondary and from 0.6 million to 2.3 million at the senior secondary levels
by 1982/83, reaching enrollment rates of 41 percent at the junior (SMP) and
24 percent at the senior (SMA) secondary levels. It also listed the following
issues in the secondary subsector:
(a) Quality issues-lack of and/or low quality of learning resources; low
level of budgetary provision; underqualified teachers with poor
employment conditions; and a weak school examinations system.
(b) Equity issues-unequal access to secondary education, particularly in
the rural areas; and considerable disparity between urban and rural
schools in respect to facilities, resources availability and
qualification level of teachers.



-2-
2.3       Linkages Between the Project and Marro-Policv Oblectives.  During
the review of the GSEI, it was agreed that the Bank's RarticiDation in the
secondary subsector should be directed towards (i) aualitv improvements
including: teacher ir-service training; provision of school science equipment;
and more effective examinations; and (ii) strengthening the management
caRacitv of the MOEC. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would assume
responsibility for:
(a) eauity-channelling of funds to underp-ivileged provinces; increasing
access in rural areas; and increasing double shifting in urban
areas;
(b) capacity expansion-constructing with local resources (parent and
private participation), 54,000 junior and 47,000 senior classrooms
and related facilities, particularly science laboratories and
libraries; reallocating excess primary teacher training institutes
(SPG) for SMA; and preparing a physical inventory of SMP and SMA
facilities; and
(c)  financin&-adjusting parental contributions to public schools (SPP
fee) annually for inflation; allowing schools to use their SPP
income; and channelling more funds to private schools (about
45 percent of SMP and over 60 percent of SMA schools).
2.4       On the basis of the above understanding, the Bank's first direct
investment in the secondary education subsector project was prepared. It is
important to note that no previous direct investment in the subsector had
occurred because during earlier discussions (in the 1975/76 World Bank
Education Sector Report), 4t had been agreed that the Bank would concentrate
on the development of skilled manpower and of the post-secondary level while
limiting its inputs to specific needs at the primary and secondary levels. In
parallel, the GOI would continue to finance the general development of primary
and secondary programs from domestic resources. Thus, until the GSEI report,
the Bank had directed its efforts to specific inputs, mainly textbooks and
teacher training at the primary and secondary education levels. On that
basis, the Banl; was involved in secondary education under the firat and Second
Teacher Training Projects (Loans 1433 and 2101-IND, approved in 1977 and 1982,
respectively). These projects focused on the expansion of teacher training,
staff upgrading and the introduction of new teaching methodologies. In
addition, more indirect assistance to secondary schools occurred through the
two textbook projects (Credit ?/-IND, approved in 1973, and Loan 2102-IND,
approved in 1982). Additional; support for the training of secondary teachers
was provided through the first Higher Education Development Project (Loan
2944-IND approved in 1988), aimed at improving the management of all
university training programs, including secondary teacher training, and
through the Accountancy Development Project (Loan 2960-IND approved in 1988)
which included the improvement of secondary-level bookkeeping courses.
2.5        The earlier allocation of responsibilities betweer the GOI and the
Bank was commendable, but the GSEI report indicated that the partnership had
not encouraged overall subsectoral coordination and there was a need for a
more integrated approach to facilitate education quality improvements.



-3-
3.  project Oblectives and Dewcription
3.1       Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the Project were to:
(a) assist the GOI to improve the quality of general secondary education 3nd
thereby raise the quality of Indonesia's human resources for economic
development; and (b) strengthen management and planning bkills at the senior
levels in the education sector. Quality improvement would be assisted by:
(i) providing in-service teacher training in science, mathematics and English
and expanding the trainir.g of provincial school supervisors and headmasters;
(ii) procuring new stocks of school scienci equipment; (iii) developing the
capacity of local manufacturers through the production of prototype school
science equipment; (iv) strengthening school science equipment distribution,
storage and maintenance systems; and (v) increasing the institutional capacity
of the MOEC to develop and operate a more effective nation=.  school
examinations system.   Management and Rlanning would be assisted hyv
(i) providing funds for a training needs assessment; (ii) providing
fellowships to train senior managerial and planning staff; and (iii) carrying
out an MOEC management study.
3.2       Prolect Components.  The project components would include the
following:
(a) provision of in-service teacher training by training 42,000 science,
mathematics and English teachers through group instruction at
teacher traOning centers (sanggars) and on-the-job observation and
coaching in their own classrooms (often referred to as "on-service"
training). The training program would include training in subject
matter, teaching methods and student evaluation using the "cascade
model"2/. About 150 instructors would be trained in national and
international courses and they in turn would train 1,850 key
teachers at the regional level. The project would upgrade 1,400
headmasters and would provide 1,600 man-months of training for 150
instructors, 80 provincial supervisors and 3 program leaders. In
addition, the project would build and equip 190 rural sanggars with
64 having science equipment repair facilities. Finally, the
component included 80 man-months of consultant services to assist
with English language teaching;
(b) improving the suDRlv of school science ecuiDment by tho provision of
science equipment to about 8,200 secondary schools with about
80 percent going to public and 20 percent to private schools;
provision of 41 .*n-months of consultant services and training to
the Directorate (.'neral for Primary and Secondary Education
(DIKMENUM) staff, for the building and equipping of a workshop and
office for the development of prototype equipment and 48 man-months
of fellowships for the prototype staff; 2 man-months of consultant
Z/  The "cascada model" refers to a training method by which head trainers
are trained at the central level. These in turn train regional trainers
who then train teachers at the local levels. It allows for the
introduction of new concepts to reach all levels.



-4-
services for the strengthening of the receiving, storing,
controlling and dispatching at tlhe warehouse of centrally procured
science equipment; implementing international competitive bidding
(ICB) procurement procedures to improve control and quality of the
equipment; and to develop ard pilot equipment maintenance training;
(c)  developing examinations by strengthening the existing Examination
Development Center (EDC) through the provision of 42 man-months of
specialist services, staff training, 1,807 man-months of fellowships
and the construction, furnishing and equipping of a new headquarters
building;
(d)  assisting management &nd planning by Droviding overseas training in
various management and planning fields not available in Indonesia,
and in-country management training courses for senior officials.
About 200 serior staff would receive short-term training while about
49 MAs and 11 PhD fellowships (2,892 man-months) would be provided
along with 186 man-months of speciaiist services for a management
study to review MOEC's organization and procedures. Provision of
management assistance would be by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) Eor pilot development of a Data Processing DIKMENTJM
Operational System (DPDOS).3/ This system would include a
computerized School Operation Information System (SOIS), a
PKG/SPKG 4/ Information System (PKGIS), Supply of Science
Equipment by School Response (PPR), a Material Management System
(MMS) at the MOEC warehouse, a Budget Analysis System (LAKEPRO) and
a School Administration System (SAS). The Project would finance the
GOI portion of these activities; and
(e)  providing honoraria, consultant services and related expenses for
Dre-investment 3tudies and iroiect evaluation to assist MOEC to
implement the project, prepare surveys and conduct feasibility
studies for follow-up investments in the subsector. Funds would
also be used for project monitoring and evaluation and for financing
a new tracer study to monitor secondary school graduate performance
in the labor market.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.1       The ?roject was based on a solid sectoral analysis jointly prepared
by the GOI and the Bank and responded well to identi'lied needs. The Project
was innovative within the sector, as it concentrated on quality inputs rather
than on infrastructure or material inputs, a trend which had dominated many
previous education projects in Indonesia. It containecd an innovative teacher
upgrading program using a combination of in-service and on-service activities.
The program was to be implemented in all 27 provinces and introduced a new
3/   Described in the UNDP project document.
.~/ In-service teacher training program-phase I (PKG) and sanggar-based
(SPKG).



-5-
methodology (an active teaching and learning approach) in the science
subjects; an oral/aural approach for the teaching of English; a pilot school
science equipment quality control program; development of prototype equipment
to im4prove the quality of nationally-produced items; and improvement of
examinations and management skills.
4.2        The timing of the project was appropriate, but, although the issues
had been well identified, the problems of implementing such an innovative
project with one new partner, DIKMENUM, and two other implementation units in
two other MOEC Directorates, were underestimated (para. 5.9). These problems
should have been dealt with in more in detail at the time of appraisal. There
was a lack of coordination and communication among the various Directorates
which was necessary to ensure that quality inpuvs, which are interdependent,
were properly linked. Other than the above problems, however, which were
dealt with during project implementation, the project was well-conceived.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1       The following modifications were made to the project during
implementation:
(a) the development of the school science equipment prototypes was
farmed out to industries rather than being prepared in the MOEC
workshop as planned leaving the workshop to be used only for quality
control;
(b) as it eventually became evident that it is impossible to operate a
centrally-based examinations system in Indonesia, as planned, the
focus was changed to the provinces. One result was that the size of
the central examinations building was reduced;
(c) as some new senior officials opposed the overall management study,
seven individual management topics were studied instead; and
(d) some project fellowship funds were allocated for management training
for Ministry of Finance (MOF) staff.
5.2       Several factors affected project implementation that could not have
been foreseen and led to the above variances in the project scope and delays
in implementation. Chief among these were the financial constraints then
being experienced by the country, which seriously affected budgetary
allocations, often leaving the implementation units without sufficient funds.
Two other causes of serious delay were the MOEC procurement review process and
the procedures used for the selection of consultants.
5.3       Although procurement review procedures, previously controlled by a
central State Secretariat (SEKNEG), had been decentralized to the ministries
to speed up the process, such reviews continued to take unacceptably long
periods within the MOEC. Evaluation of bids typically took 4 to 14 months, 2
to 4 times longer than it had at SEKNEG. This was partially the result of the
MOEC's Secretariat Gene.al (SETJEN) assuming a similar role to SERNEG's and,
in addition to reviewing the award recommendations, it did the bid evaluations



-6-
all over again. The issue was discussed on many occasions and it was only
during the preparation of the Second Secondary Project that it was reluctantly
agreed that the project implementation units and SETJEN could increase
cooperation.
5.4       Similarly, the recruitment of individual consultants, both national
and international, which was controlled at the start of the Project by a
selection committee, was slow and uncoordinated. Then, following selection,
the finalization of contracts could take up to six months. National
consultants cr partner firms quite often had little knowledge of education
management and no international knowledge and provided the project with
marginal benefits. The procedures were relaxed slightly prior to the closing
of the project, but the process within the MOEC still requires review.
5.5       The decision to centralize all examination activities in the MOEC
Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Development (BALITBANG) was
not accepted by DIKMENUM and the provinces (who were already running
examinations), due to insufficient consultation with them at the time the
decision was made. They felt that BALITBANG and the EDC did not have the
capacity to run the organization centrally, or prepare and administer over
seven hundred annual examinations. Ir. the beginning they refused to
cooperate, but, after GOI/MOEC and Bank discussions (December 1987 to
September 1989), all parties agreed that EDC would assume responsibility for
the national coordination of examinations and the training activities while
DIKMENUM and the provinces would retain responsibility for the operation of
the examinations system.
5.6       In addition, lines of communication among the central and regional
authorities were not sufficiently defined at the start of the project.
Following many missions and internal discussions, a system to have training
and expenditure documentation, leave and return to the central authority
within a period of three months was achieved, resulting in more timely
disbursements. But, no sooner had this process been established in the MOEC
than MOF changed the documentation requirements again forcing a further review
of the process which took 6 months to resolve.
5.7       Another implementation issue that emerged was the inequitable
distribution of teacher upgrading training resources for the in-service
teacher training program (PKG) and the sanggar PKG (SPKG). The Project, which
was to assist all the provinces equally, did not sufficiently link resource
needs to the number of teachers in each province (largely due to a lack of
data). It allocated an equal amount of funds to each province for a PKG team
of instructors and SPKG key teacher activities, making it difficult to respond
to varying teacher training needs, particularly in the large provinces where
up to 75 percent more untrained teachers were employed. This resulted in
overtraining in some small provinces and undertraining in some of the larger
provinces.
5.8       Seven amendments were made to the Loan Agreement during the project
implementation period (Table SB, Part III): (1) on July 1, 1985, the number
of teachers to be trained and the specialist man-months in Parts A.1, B.3 and
D.2 were increased; (2) on July 5, 1986, the preparation of examinations was



- 7 -
added to Schedule 2 and furniture was added to civil works in Schedule 4 while
Schedule 4, Part C.2, was amended to read "contracts for equipment and
materials...."; (3) on August 28, 1988, Schedule 1 was modified to include a
new Category 5 "Project Management"; (4) on June 10, 1988, Schedule 1, Section
3 (b), was reallocated to include $3.4 million for MOF fellowships; (5) on
October 3, 1988, the use of Statements of Expenditure was added; (6) on
September 18, 1988, the Closing Date was extended from September 30, 1988, to
September 30, 1989; and (7) on September 18, 1989, the Closing Date was
extended for three months and on October 18, 1989, extended again to September
30, 1990.
5.9       The project was implemented by three project implementation units
(PIUs), Unit I within DIKMENUM which was responsible for teacher training and
science education, Unit II within BALITBANG which was responsible for
examinations and Unit III within SETJEN, responsible for management training.
Coordination and communications amongst the PIUs was slow as it had to go
through senior officials rather than directly among the Units. In general,
the PIUs lacked authority, had frequent staff changes including their
directors, and had difficulties obtaining budgetary adjustments or even
approval for activities covered 100 percent by the Bank loan. The
understaffing of the PIUs combined with the numerous changes in their
directors and other staff limited institutional capacity- building. Also, the
staffing of the PIUs mainly with retired civil servants further hindered
institutional capacity-building and the sustainability of project activities.
While the Second Secondary Project makes an attempt to addres3 this issue, in
general, the MOEC needs to review its staffing policy for projects to improve
efficiency, sustainability and institutional memory-building.
5.10      Largely due to the overestimation of the implementation capacity of
the three MOEC Directorates and the PIUs, the Project required two one-year
extensions of the Closing Date to September 30, 1990 (para. 5.8). The almost
annual changes in PIU directors and other key staff certainly contributed to
this delay. Continuity of Bank staff and consultants for supervision probably
helped reduce these staffing disruptions, but because the review teams
simultaneously supervised other projects, the time allocated for supervision
of this Project was limited, leaving, under the circumstances, little time to
implement the monitoring and evaluation activities. Nevertheless, the
systematizing of a project review, monthly and later every semester, by the
National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) in year 2 of the Project, and
the establishment of a Project Monitoring and Coordination Committee (PMCC)
within DIKMENUM (in its last year) greatly helped keep the Project in focus.
All the activities were completed or are being continued under the Second
Secondary Project including a follow-up to the seven management studies.
5.11      The Project received parallel assistance from the high quality
technical assistance provided under the UNDP project (No. INS/83/033 for
US$2.26 million). Important contributions were made by the team leader who
coordinated the PKG and DPDOS activities. The combined assistance of a
GTZ 5/ advisor (paid by the Loan starting in year 2) and the UNDP
5/   German Agency for Technical Cooperation.



- 8 -
consultants also enabled DIKMENUM to implement the science equipment supply
activities, particularly the PPR and MMS. These positive arrangements are
being continued under the Second Secondary Project.
6.   Proiect Results
6.1       Proiect Obiectives and Policies.  With minor changes (para. 5.1),
the project objectives were met. The attainment of the quantitative and
qualitative goals were significant for a first project in the secondary
subsector. It is important to note that the implementation period was used by
Bank staff to undertake key subsector policy dialogue. As a result of that
dialogue, the GOI finalized before the appraisal of the Second Secondary
Project, over 20 important subsector policies dealing with teacher upgrading,
&nd ths operation and staffing of examinations and of the MOEC information
system. It also developed a specific policy for undertaking an integrated
management approach.
6.2       GOI Participation.  In respect to the activities the GOI/MOEC had
indicated they would undertake at the time of appraisal (para. 2.3), the
following has occurred: (a) the GOI/MOEC reviewed the allocation of funds in
1988/89, particularly for operations and maintenance, and a slight edge was
given to rural areas. Increases in allocation for operations and maintenance
are to continue for five years; (b) to expand secondary capacity, the MOEC
closed over 100 SPGs and transformed them into secondary schools with an
estimated 6,000 places, and using its own budget and other donor funds, has
started the planned secondary expansion (to be completed about 1995);
(c) changes in the administration of the SPP have not yet occurred although a
needs assessment and financing study are scheduled to begin with IIEP's 6/
assistance. Generally, the GOI has made an effort to implement the goals set
out.
6.3       Impact of the Project.  In respect to the Bank supported activities,
the following results occurred (Table 4, Part III):
6.4       Teacher Training.  Over 120,000 science, mathematics and English
teachers were trained, nearly three times appraisal estimates; about 380
instructors rather than the 150 estimated were trained and all were reassigned
to PKG activities or the management of schools where PKG programs are run;
over 2,000 teachers were trained at the regional level, about 13 percent more
than planned; 50 headmasters were trained overseas and they in turn trained
about 1,500 headmasters, about 100 more than estimated; and nearly 3,000 key
teachers and about 100 provincial supervisors and program leaders participated
in regional PKG training activities as planned. The Project built 216
sanggars, 16 more than planned but delays in equipping these reduced their
utilization. Finally, the Project used about 850 man-months of consultant
services for: training tutors at regional seminars; development of teacher
and student worksheets in the sciences and mathematics and development of
English materials (see also Table 6A, Part III). The qualitative impact was
not as high as desired, however, due to the sporadic recruitment of
6/ International Institute for Educational Planning.



-9-
specialists; the lengthy absence of instructors being upgradLd externally; the
low level of some of the key teachers; and the poor quality or inappropriate
location of some sanggars. The use of schools for PKG training (often due to
delays in the supply of equipment to the sanggars) reduced the sanggar
utilization rate, which in 1990 ranged from 20 to 100 percent. Also, in
numerous cases the preference of instructors and trainers to do PKG/SPKG
training within actual classrooms and laboratories demonstrated that the high
number of sanggars built could have been lower if an effective analysis of the
facilities needed, (rather than allocating a sanggar to all key centers) and
management decisions on maximizing the use of existing facilities, had been
made.
6.5       SuPPlY of School Science Equipment.  The first ICB tender for this
equipment (worth about $6.0 million) took over two years to implement and up
to another two years to deliver to the schools. The second procurement
exercise, ICB II (worth about $12.7 million), was processed in less than one
year although distribution again took about a year. In addition, an important
local competitive bidding (LCB) exercise worth about $3.0 million was
undertaken during the last year of the Project. In total about $22.0 million
worth of science equipment was procured rather than the $31.0 million
estimated at the time of appraisal. The final deliveries for ICB ,I and the
LCB were completed during 1991 resulting in about 7,500 or 89 percent of the
schools and all the sanggars receiving equipment. During the two ICBs, the
procurement process was fully computerized, quality control was put into
place, a warehouse managing system was set up and the management structures
and staffing were established with the expectation that future operations will
be more timely. As mentioned, however, the latter is dependent upon the
MOEC's shortening its review process (para. 5.3) and appointing more full-time
staff to its procurement section. Particularly commendable is the
establishment of the PPR system which supplies schools on the basis of actual
needs and means tney receive continuous replacement of lost or damaged items.
The most important result is that PPR combined with quality control is a more
efficient supply method, has improved the quality of the equipment supplied
and is estimated to be less costly than the kit system used prior to the
Project. It is too early to fully assess this new approach, but already the
improved availability of relevant equipment combined with the new teaching
approaches are contributing to signs that the quality of secondary science
education is improving. Nevertheless, the GOI still needs to increase
regional decentralization while improving national monitoring rather than
controlling equipment procurement centrally through such approaches as the
PPR.
6.6       The provision of 4t man-months cf techn'ical assistance for this
component was exceeded since technical assistance for the quality control,
maintenance training and prototype development activities which was expected
to be paid for by grants had to be covered for three years by the Loan. About
46 international and 36 national man-months of technical assistance were
utilized for these activities. Another 15 man-months of technical assistance
were provided for warehouse development. The technical assistance was used to
anelyze equipment needs by cabject, prepare better specifications, establish
quality control for the equipment procured, develop and pilot a maintenance
training program, train maintenance coordinators and trainers and develop



- 10 -
prototype equipment. The team was able to complete the analysis of needs by
subject for the SMPs,Z/ improve most of the specifications, assist with the
development of the quality control processes, and run pilot maintenance
training courses at the sanggars, but had to modify its plans regarding the
development of prototype equipment. Due to delays in construction of the
workshop and in the receipt of the workshop equipment, development of physics
prototypes (about 100 have been completed and another 100 are in various
stages of development) was farmed out to industry. The follow-up analysis
(para. 6.6) showed, however, that the workshop was needed for quality control
only and not for the development of the prototypes. The workshop has thus
been over-equipped and could generate undue recurrent costs. This matter,
under discussion since the March 1989 mission, still has not been resolved by
the MOEC. The computerization of the central warehouse has been completed and
an effective receipt and dispatch system, now in place, will be expanded to
the three regional warehouse centers during the Second Secondary Project.
6.7       The pros and cons of the development of prototype equipment was
thoroughly discussed during the appraisal of the Second Secondary Project. As
a result, the Bank requested that an external analysis be undertaken prior to
continuing its support under the Second Secondary Project. This analysis,
undertaken in January 1991, by consultants from Thailand, the UK, and
Indonesia, revealed that for over 90 percent of the prototypes developed,
equipment of the same quality could be purchased 4 to 10 times more
economically from the international market. It also found that the process of
giving a production retainer to only a few firms made it difficult to justify
the continuation of the pilot. The study recommended that fewer than
10 percent of the prototypes developed be retained, with their production
contracted by open tenders. The study did indicate, however, that the
interaction with national industries had greatly assisted with equipment
quality improvement. The study recommended that the quality control testing
should be continued since it was estimated that almost all the nationally
produced and external equipment now being received was of good quality as
suppliers know it will be tested. Prior to the testing only about 40 percent
of the items supplied were of an acceptable quality.
6.8       Examinations Development.  This component's progress was limited
until the role of the EDC and issues regarding the use of technical assistance
for it were resolved. A lengthy but positive dialogue on these issues
occurred during project implementation and by implementation year 4, the roles
of EDC, DIKMENUM and the provinces had been clarified. (The examinations
component in the Second Secondary Project is being implemented under the
clarified objectives.) This indecision made 't difficult for EDC to recruit
consultants, except a few non-controversial ones, with the result that only 22
out of the 42 man-months planned were used (Part III, Table 6A). The Bank on
the other hand, employed an examinations consultant during 1987-88 and again
in 1989 who greatly assisted in clarifying the role of EDC. A few long-term
overseas fellowships were started immediately after project effectiveness and
the final group began their training during the third year of the project with
7/ That is, matching the equipment supplied to the curriculum and to
experimental needs.



- 11 -
789 man-months utilized out of 1,807 planned by project Closing Date (Part
III, Table 6A). All the returnees (29 HAs and 4 PhDs) have been employed
within EDC or the MOEC. The Project undertook the short-term training
programs as scheduled. As a result of these training programs, 85 staff at
the central level and 458 at the regional level received training in topics
such as evaluation approaches, steps in the preparation of examinations,
preparation of test items, management and assessment of tests, etc.
6.9       The EDC headquarters building was built and equipped in a timely
way. All the space provided is being used for educational purposes. It is
located next to the curriculum, textbook and MOEC printing offices to
facilitate coordination, although this is still too limited. The MOEC should
assess this serious coordination gap which is negatively affecting the quality
of education.
6.10      Sector Management Training Program.  A management needs assessment
undertaken under the Project, identified shortages of qualified stiff existing
at the nationsl and regional levels in the areas of personnel, finance and
logistics. On that basis long- (MA and PhD) and short-term training programs
were planned. About 79 staff (75 MA and 4 PhD) benefitted from long-term
training and about 96 staff participated in short-term management courses
specifically designed for the candidates. It was the first time that
representatives from all the provinces had been included in such training
programs. The main problems that occurred were the initial unsuccessful
attempt of Unit III at the SETJEN to self-manage the overseas fellowships
(resolved once an external contractor was employed); the low level of facility
in English of the candidates, particularly the recruits from the provincial
administrations; the lack of suitability of one of the short-term training
programs; and the non-utilization of the new trainees by some regional offices
(where promotion is often based on seniority rather than competence). All the
trainees have remained employed within the MOEC, however, and to maximize
utilization of the training, it is recommended that, in the future, a re-entry
strategy be prepared by each PIU.
6.11      With technical assistance from UNDP, DIKMENUM's Unit I was able to
train 30 operators for piloting of the SOIS. Computers for the above activity
were supplied in part by the Project and in part by the UNDP grant. The PPR
was successfully piloted in about 300, then in about 1,200, and later in about
3,400 schools in all provinces. The activity is being nationalized under the
Second Secondary Project. The PKGIS, piloted in two provinces, was being
implemented and integrated with the SOIS by the end of the Project. The
computerized program showing the tra4.ning status of all secondary teachers was
completed in early 1991, and future training programs are expected to respond
to actual teacher training needs.  The MMS was implemented and improved the
control and delivery of school science equipment with the expectation that
school delivery, which previously took about two years, will be reduced to
about six months. The SAS was tested, has been implemented in 14 provinces
and will be nationalized during the Second Secondary Project. 7: streamline
activities and avoid duplication, SAS is also being integrated with SOIS and
where implemented (in four provinces using their own resources), it has
already facilitated the availability of data and of decision-making. Systems



- 12 -
operation and training 8/ has been provided to 1,350 provincial and 45
central staff. This successful training program (offered mainly in Bahasa
Indonesia even abroad-in Australia, using senior tutors) is continuing under
the Second Secondary Project
6.12      Pre-Investment Studies and Proiect Evaluation.  As some new senior
officials within the MOEC opposed the overall management study, it fell out of
favor and seven specific management topics were studied instead. These
included: (a) Evaluation of Educational Planning Capability - Need and
Potential in the Region (Central Java); (b) Feasibility Study on New Systems
of Payment of Salary for Primary and Secondary School Teachers; (c) School
Funding by Parents at Elementary and Secondary Schools (West Java and Central
Java); (d) Appointment, Placement and Distribution of New Secondary School
Teachers in West Java, Central Java and Sumatra; (e) Evaluation of Role,
Appearance and Position of Elementary School Heads and Supervisors in Central
Java, West Java and Western Sumatra; (f) Elementary School Management System
in Central Java and West Java; and (g) Micro-Management at Elementary and
Secondary Schools in Central Java, West Java and West Sumatra. Largely
because the international consultant was new to Indonesia and selected a weak
national partner, studies were not as comprehensive as had been desired. The
MOEC review committee haa many meetings to discuss the recommendations of the
studies. Changes that resulted included: guidance for policy development,
particularly, the decree on integrated management (1989); adjustments in the
planning process; a review of the payment of secondary level teacher s.laries;
and a review of headmasters' roles. Most important, the studies convinced
MOEC management that an analysis of the Ministry was necessary. The resulting
study was started during the final year of the Project and is ongoing during
the Second Secondary Project.
6.13      Project funds were mainly used for the preparation of the Second
Secondary Project while the evaluation and monitoring activities, not fully
defined at the time of appraisal, received marginal attention. The main
preparation activities undertaken were: a review of, and improvement in, the
basic data collected by DIKNENUM; improvement in initiating teachir training
records to allow training to respond better to actual needs; and piloting of
the SOIS, SAS, PPR and MMS monitoring systems which are now being implemented
nationally (para 6.11). The planned tracer study of secondary graduates'
performance in the labor market was not undertaken.
6.14      As stated in paras. 5.1 and 5.8 and Part III, Table SB, an amount of
$7,692,850 was reallocated for management training fellowships within the MOF.
The program was successfully implemented and about 130 fellows completed their
degree programs. The trainees were all subsequently employed within the MOF.
g/   A local introductory course was offered three times, in each province, to
about 50 candidates with the best 25 selected for provincial training and
out of that group about 15 for national training. A final selection of
about 30 (three such groups consisting of the best national staff) were
given overseas fellowships. Upon their return they continued the
national training.



- 13 -
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.1       During project implementation, sustainea efforts were made to fully
integrate the activities within the operations of the secondary directorates
and to adjust the organization of the PKG/SPKG program, the examinations
system and the collection of data to better suit the situation. The changes
in the PKG/SPKG program with the gradual transfer of training responsibilities
to the teacher associations will ensure the program's continuation. The most
important quality impact under the PKG/SPKG resulted from the introduction of
the active teaching/learning approach which has now become a permanent part of
the teaching approach at the secondary level. The updated data collection for
teacher and school information, the procurement of science equipment and the
management of materials and of the warehouse have also all become a regular
part of DIKMENUM. The supply of school science equipment, using quality
control while responding to individual school needs, is now in the process of
being implemented in all the schools, and is expected to be sustained since it
has proven to be a more efficient and economical way to supply schools with
the needed equipment. The operation of the examinations system was clarified
and has speeded-up regional development and staff strengthening, and the
Project's efforts should be fully sustained once the additional inputs under
the Second Secondary Project are in place. The management training effort is
already having an organizational impact at the national and regional levels
and should have a long-term positive effect on the operation of the MOEC. The
main result of the intensive dialogue carried on during the project
implementation period has been the implementation of over 20 key policy
adjustments in teacher training, examinations and management training. It is
expected that all the project components will be sustained with further
assistance under the Second Secondary Project.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was concise but lacked enough
details to facilitate implementation, resulting in the need for many
activities to be redefined during the project implementation period. During
this period, the Bank demonstrated by its large staff inputs (on average about
17 staff and consultant weeks per annum), its interest and support for this
pilot project. Bank staff used regular visits not only to monitor project
progress but also to continue the sector policy dialogue. Bank staff played a
leadership role in this dialogue and, in addition, assisted t;,e Borrower to
arrive at more realistic project targets and implementable procedures. The
preparation of detailed aides-memoire assisted the PIUs to follow-up mission
recommendations. Nevertheless, longer and more concentrated Bank staff visits
during the first period of project implementation would have been beneficial.
Generally, the Bank's performance was quite effective with its timely response
to correspondence and the placing of emphasis by its missions on the
resolution of the numerous problems experienced by three divergent PIUs.
Implementation by the three separate units tripled the administrative problems
which was not always rezognized by Bank management in the allocation of
supervision time, resulting in insufficient time being spent on monitoring and
evaluation activities. The strengthening of the capacity of DIKMENUM was
given sufficient attention and that support is continuing during the Second
Secondary Project.



- 14 -
8.2       The main lessons learned during this Project were:
(a) If projects have more than one implementation unit, the Bank should
always identify in the SAR, a budgetary allocation for each unit and
if necessary in future, for each regional authority involved;
(b) The Bank during project preparation and appraisal should investigate
fully, national trends, in order to avoid difficult adjustments
during implementation, in this case, the centralization of
examinations when decentralization policies were being implemented;
(c) Project components with large regional participation require
consultation at that level. Reliance on central authorities (who
may rarely travel to the regions) can create serious implementation
delays and does not allow for the formulation of clear
administrative and budgetary procedures. Decentralized or
deconcentrated activities should be included in projects only after
clear administrative procedures are in place;
(d) It should be noted that education projects that emphasize quality
improvements are complex and require more implementation time than
projects focusing primarily on physical and material inputs.
Improvements in education quality require simultaneous coordination
and inter-relationships, or at least consideration, of financial,
material and human inputs; and
(e) If related sector work has been done during project preparation, the
Government is usually more amenable to policy dialogue, and sectoral
issues can then be dealt with effectively during implementation.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       The main strengths of the Bort,-Yer were its clear willingness to
work out the issues. Their good efforts were hampered, however, by shortages
of GOI funds, slow budgetary adjustments and slow decision-making, due largely
to cumbersome administrative procedures and a lack of coordination and
communication among the DIKMENUM, SETJEN and BALITBANG which were each
managing one of the PIUs. Other problems included: the almost annual
changing of project directors (four in Unit I, two in Unit II and five in
Unit III within five years) allowing little continuity or institution
building. The numerous changes of other key procurement and financial
officers also seriously affect i the record keeping and monitoring and
evaluation activities; the delays in obtaining budgetary allocations (rarely
before June although the budgetary year is April 1 to March 30 annually); the
lack of budget allocated for project evaluation and monitoring for a Project
being implemented in 27 provinces; delays in obtaining expenditure approvals
even if covered 100 percent by the Loan; the slow processing of consultant
contracts; and the multiple review of procurement contracts which resulted in
lengthy delays. All the latter issues were dealt with, some in less than the
desired time frame, but in due course all issues were generally resolved
satisfactorily due to the efforts of MOEC senior officials. These officials



- 15 -
established a good dialogue with Bank staff and made serious efforts to
implement the Project.
9.2       The main lessons learned were:
(a) The MOEC policy of rotating almost annually, project directors and
key staff should be changed to allow these officers sufficient time
in post to become thoroughly familiar with project objectives and
implementation. This will facilitate insti;ution building and
improve the pace of project implementation;
(b) The establishment of an advanced computerized procurement system can
only result in improvements and be sustained if the process is
understood by the senior managers and they in turn agree not to
repeat costly and time-consuming steps. Tender and bid analysis
reviews should be better coordinated to decrease the time required.
Also, approved ICB tender documents should be re-used, with minor
adjustments, rather than recreated for each procurement exercise (as
is now the case within MOEC). Procurement documentation quality
would be improved and much time and money saved. Also, the use of
the same experie-uced procurement staff for various procurement
activities should b'Acome a pattern rather than an exception, as it
is now;
(c) The quality control testing of samples undertaken during:
(a) tender analysis; (b) production; and (c) inspection upon
delivery is time-consuming, but if properly organized and mechanized
takes very little more time than the standard approach (which
usually involves only visual inspection with no actual testing) and
greatly improves the quality of the equipment received.
(d) Projects implemented in 27 provinces cannot be managed by central
staff who rarely travel to the implementation sites. Administrative
and budgetary procedures need to be streamlined to facilitate the
timely implementation of the decentralized activities. This will
speed up resource allocation and later replenishment from the Bank
Loan;
(e)  An important lesson lrarned under the PPR was that information on
equipment needed that is gathered at the school level is usually
more accurate than if needs are determined centrally, and if
compilation is properly organized, its collection is no more
difficult than using existing methods. More important is that the
schools and teachers are able to determine what is needed by their
schools and students. This participatory approach still retains a
final central decision process while reducing the complaints;
(f) Sustainability of activities will be limited as long as the MOEC
relies largely on the services of retired civil servants on annual
assignments for project implementation. More participation of line
staff needs to be ensured. Also, the MOEC should review annually



- 16 -
its establishmert to ensure more flexible recruitment of staff to
fit new needs. At present, adjustments to the establishment of this
sort, can take up to two years. The MOEC should have more
flexibility to recruit within its establishment, staff trained in
new disciplines to respond to needs such as computerizing data,
procuring science equipment and operating a warehouse, activities
not previously needed by the MOEC;
(g) Research departments of the MOEC such as for examinations, have a
difficult time dealing effectively with operational activities.
Also, to facilitate quality improvements, the MOEC needs to better
define the operational activities and links between the various
units sharing responsibilities for their implementation, such as
curriculum and textbooks;
(h) Training activities need to be carefully planned based on actual
teacher/trainee numbers rather than by province or geographical area
to prevent inequitable allocation of services such as occurred in
the PKG/SPKG training programs. Equity should be based on the
actual numbers involved;
(i) Similarly, the distribution of facilities, such as sanggars, should
not be based purely on geographical distribution but rather on a
needs and utilization analysis; and
(j) Projects need to be careful not to "recreate the wheel". The idea
of prototype equipment was a good concept but in reality resulted in
large expenditures with marginal benefits. Such experiments should
reduce rather than increase costs and should ensure that the country
keeps up with external developments in equipment and procurement
practices;
10. Consultant Services
10.1      The project support by a UNDP sub-project in Unit I greatly assisted
with the PKG/SPKG program, science equipment procurement and DPDOS activities.
The professional and training consultants assisting with the PRG/SPKG were of
good quality but would have benefitted from being more specialized and from
better time coordination. The national consultants for the PKG/SPKG and
examinations training performed well. The technical assistance for science
equipment quality and prototype development was of good qual'y but lacked
national participation. The examinations consultants all pe.formed their
tasks as required but due to unclear MOEC strategies, these inputs had less
impact than desired. The management consultants did less well, however, due
to their limited knowledge of the sector and limited exposure to other
education systems. Generally, Bank guidelines or satisfactory national
procedures were followed for the selection and hiring of consultants. In many
cases, however, the lack of suitable counterparts hampered the retention or
application of the new knowledge and reduced the sustainability of the inputs.
National consultants employed for implementation activities generally
performed well.



- 17 -
11.   Proiect Documentation and Data
11.1      The SAR and Loan Agreement were the main reference for the Bank and
Borrower during implementation. The SAR was found to be lacking in details,
resulting in numerous Loan amendments, while the Lo,(- Agreement was generally
found adequate. A two-volume set of working papers were also available.
Implementation would have been facilitated and evaluation and monitoring
activities made easier if tables listing che quantitative expectations/goals
of each component had been included as part of the SAR.
12. Prolect RelationshiR
12.1      The Bank and Borrower relationship during this project was good.
The working relationship was supportive with a high degree of professional
interaction from both sides.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
'(LOAN 2472-IND)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13. Prolect Orgar.ization and Structure
13.1      Background and Context.  The Secondary Education and Management
Training Project is the first project in general secondary education funded by
the World Bank, through Loan 2472-IND. The objectives of the project were to:
(a) assist the Government to improve the quality of general secondary
education, and (b) strengthen management and planning skills at senior levels
in the education sector. To achieve the objectives, the Project provided
funds for civil works, equipment and furniture, technical assistance, local
and overseas training, studies, and salaries and honoraria.
13.2      The project included three parts:  (a) the teacher improvement and
science equipment components and the pre-investment studies; (b) the
development of the institutional capacity to operate a national examination
system; and (c) the management training program. Since the three parts were
related to three different Echelon I 9/ within the MOEC, implementation was
conducted by three PIUs. Unit 1, dealing with the first part, was in
DIKMENUM; Unit II, dealing with the second, wa in the EDC (BALITBANG); and
Unit III, dealing with the third, was in the SETJEN.
13.3      The central PMCC consisted of relevant Echelon I and Echelon II
staff, while the coordination of the activities of the three Units was
conducted by a steering committee chaired by the Director of DIKMENUM.
14. Civil Works
14.1      Unit I.  To support the dissemination of the PKG program, it was
planned to build, equip, and furnish simple facilities for about 190 of the
240 sanggars in rural areas. Of the 240 sanggars, 64 would also have a small
science equipment repair facility. To create and develop prototypes of
science equipment for secondary schools, it was planned to build, equip, and
furnish a workshop and office. To improve the distribution of science
equipment to schools, it was planned to construct, equip, and furnish a
central warehouse for receiving, storing, controlling, and dispatching
centrally-procured science equipment.
14.2      To implement the programs, the project built 216 sanggars (see Table
4, Part III) complete with equipment and furniture. They are divided into
2/   Senior managers.



- 20 -
three types: Type A-S1; Type B-88; Type C-77. All 216 sanggars were built in
kabupatens (at the district level) in 27 provinces in a good condition.
Almost all of them have been used for teacher training centers to disseminate
PKG programs as planned. However, a few of them are not well-located as they
are far from the teachers' homes and this to some extent, caused
underutilization. Hence, for such teachers, PKG activities were conducted in
the schooils themselves using PKG equipment.  The process of establishing some
of the sanggars was delayed due to the international economic crisis at the
time which influenced the development budget funds available. This was a
crucial problem about which the Project could not do much.
14.3      The project also built, equipped, and furnished a workshop and a
central warehouse in Ciketing near Jakarta. In addition, three regional
workshops (in Jakarta, Bandung, and Yogyakarta) were built, equipped, and
furnished. The warehouse in Ciketing was designed and developed with GTZ
technical assistance. It has been used for improving the distribution of
science equipment to schools and conducting training concerning science
equipment as planned. As for the workshop, it has been used to assist the
project in developing the existing science equipment and the training of
science teachers and laboratory assistants and to foster the capabilities of
domestic producers of science equipment as planned.
14.4      Unit II.  When it was established, the EDC did not have a permanent
building of its own. The first two years of the Project, the EDC occupied two
rented houses as a temporary premise. In fact, to facilitate this office in
running its programs, a permanent building was absolutely needed. The
Project, therefore, constructed a building for EDC as planned. It consists of
eight stories and has a total floor of 5,400 m2. Construction started with
the signing of the contract on March 3, 1987, and was finished on schedule.
The building has been occupied as of January 1, 1989, and it will be the right
size for EDC when it becomes fully operational. Currently, EDC has 102 staff
members. The maintenance of the building is covered by the GOI's recurrent
budget. The facilities available have been fully utilized for the
implementation of EDC activities.
14.5      Lessons Learned.  In general, the main objectives of establishing
the sanggars, a workshop and warehouse, and the EDC building were achieved as
planned. This conclusion was based on the number of PKG and EDC buildings
established, their size and utilization, and their now-actual functions.
However, the Project experienced some problems in the process of constructing
the buildings, especially the sanggars, such as delayed construction and
improper location of a few of them. These bitter experiences should be taken
into account in designing future projects.
15. Equipment. Books and Furniture
15.1      Unit I.  To improve the quality of science teaching, it was planned
to provide science equipment to 8,200 schools (of which 80 percent were new or
private schools, and the remaining we-e schools equipped earlier to be
replenished). For this purpose, the project contracted for the purchase of
school science equipment (comprising chemistry, biology, and physics
equipment) through ICB 1, ICB 2, and international shopping, amounting to



- 21 -
1,762 items. For several reasons, only 1,088 items could be delivered by the
contractors while the rest, 674 items, are being processed through ICB 3 under
the Second Project. From the 1,088 items, only 1,051 items have actually been
delivered to and received by the respective schools. It is important to note
that the payment for the contracts was based on the actual deliveries and not
based on the value of the contracts.
15.2      The ICB 1 process and its implementation, for several reasons, took
a long time, about two years. First, a great number of items were rejected
due to poor quality or for not fulfilling the technical specifications
required by the Project. Second, the Project had to evaluate the prices twice
and the Ministerial Committee needed some more time to determine the
successful bidders. Considering that the ICB I process took such a long time,
and the warehouse could not accommodate the deliveries, the Project decided to
distribute incomplete sets of science equipment to 2,640 SMPs, 861 SMAs, and
216 sanggars (216 sets for SMP and 216 sets for SMA for a total of 3,342
sets). The distribution of eluipment purchased through ICB 1 was not based on
PPR data but rather on the substituted medium and small schools data, because
at the time of planning, the PPR data were not yet available. The
.stribution of the ICB 1 items had some constraints as the expediters did not
follow the Project's guidelines, especially in terms of school geographic
variables. All of these reasons caused about a one-year delay.
15.3      The delivery of the items pArchased in 1989 under ICB 2 to the
respective schools covered about 20 percent of the total items contracted,
except for chemicale which were fully delivered. Consideriag that the
warehouse needed clearance to accommodate other items, chemicals had to be
distributed immediately. When the procurement of science equipment and
chemicals was planned, the Project did not have the PPR data. Thus, the
distribution of ICB 2 items was to SMP and SMA schools which had not received
any science equipment or chemicals. The Project has dispatched sets of
science equipment purchased through ICB 2 to 738 SMPs (regular kits), 359 new
SMPs (modular kits) and 55 sangga-s (modular kits and 313 SMA sets).
15.4      Supply of Science EguiRment by School Response (PPR).  The objective
of the PPR is to provide science equipment based on the respective school's
needs. The DPDOS was used to organize the data collected and to do the
analysis through PPR instruments. The results were then submitted to the
Procurement Subunit for the planning of the procurement and distribution of
the items as requested by the respective SMPs and SMAs. Managing the data by
the DPDOS resulted in accurate and on time data, and this contributed
positively to the PPR. During the lifetime of the Project, the PPR has been
developed from PPR 1 to PPR 5. By the end of the Project, the PPR had been
standardized as part of an MMS/PPR system. However, the funds required to
replace the broken equipment and supply additional chemicals based on the PPR
data was significantly great, and some of the data seems unreliable. This
might be due to the short time for completing the PPR instrument so that the
schools generally submitted their assumed needs instead of their actual ones.
The distribution of science equipment items based on PPR 3 covered 66 SMPs and
28 SMAs in the Province of DKI Jakarta, while the distribution based on this
system to other provinces was conducted gradually from one province to
another.



- 22 -
15.5      PrototvRe Science Equipment.  The development of SMP prototype
science equipment was based on the following considerations: cost-
effectiveness, domestic production, standardization, quality control, and
curricular needs analysis. The objective was to produce science modular kits.
It started with the production of physics equipment by one of the more capable
local producers under the guidance and supervision of GTZ. At that time, the
Project's workshop was not equipped yet with the necessary instruments. The
result was one SMP physics science kit. After the science kit was evaluated,
the next step was to produce 50 kits for trying-out in 5 sanggars and 20 SMPs
in Jakarta and 4 other provinces outside Java. Following that, the
procurement of 3,096 sets of physics science modular kits was carried out
through ICB 2, and these modular kits were distributed to 56 sanggars and 356
schools in 10 provinces. The science modular kits were then evaluated by an
independent team, consisting of experts from the Asian Institute of
Technology, Bangkok, the UK, the University of Indonesia and the Institute of
Technology, Bandung. The team provided a recommendation to the Project to
revise and drop some of the prototype items for reasons of efficiency and
effectiveness.
15.6      UNDP INS/83/033.  In order to achieve project objewtives more
rapidly, the UNDP project assisted the Secondary Project in establishing
effective project implementation within DIKMENUM with improved coordinated
support from the provinces in project management and the development of the
processes of implementation and procedural skills in Unit I and in the
Provincial Offices. For this purpose, the UNDP project purchased 135 sets of
computers and printers and dispatched 54 of the sets to the 27 provinces (each
province received 2 sets of computers and 1 printer). Furthermore, the UNDP
project developed information system software for IDIS,10/ SAS, LAKEPRO,
and MMS/PPR). It is worth noting that the UNDP also conducted training in
these matters. The contribution of the UNDP was very great in the development
of the computerized system in DIKMENUM. This can be detected from the results
of an evaluation showing that the provincial computer operators were able to
operate the IDIS, SAS, LAKEPRO, and MMS/PPR software.  For example, to
evaluate the ICB tender documents using a manual system took three months
while using a computerized system took only one to one-and-a-half months.
These successful programs should be noted for future projects.
15.7      Unit II.  The project purchased office equipment such as a
facsimile, a sound system, a printing machine, 31 personal computers, and
other supporting tools for examination purposes. These items are used to
facilitate the Project as well as to help the EDC to run their program
activities.
15.8      Unit III.  To support the Unit in running its program, the Project
provided office equipment, such as facsimiles, typewriters, overhead
projectors, photocopy machines, filing cabinets, a sound system, personal
computers and printers.
jQ/ IDIS is a system integrating SOIS and PKGIS.



- 23 -
15.9      Lessons Learned.  In general, in terms of numbers, the main
objective of providing science equipment for the improvement of science
teaching was not achieved satisfactorily since from the carget of 8,200
schools/sanggars only about 45 percent were actually provided with this
equipment. However, the science equipment was utilized effectively and
efficiently by the respective schools and positively contributed to the
teaching/learning process. The provision of office equipment for the EDC
building and Unit III offices to facilitate the Project in running its
programs was achieved as planned and they are now fully utilized to facilitate
the Project as well as routine activities. However, the Project experienced
some crucial problems in providing science equipment, such as the very slow
processing of contracts which caused a terrible delay in its provision. For
the success of the future project, this crucial problem should be taken into
account.
16. Consultants and Professional Services. Overseas Training and Studies
16.1      Unit I.  Consultants and Professional Services.  To assist the
training of the national instructors and key teachers with particular emphasis
on English language training, it was planned to recruit 11 training
consultants and 24 English-speaking assistants, totalling 944 staff-months.
To assist with the distribution of science equipment and the development of
science equipment prototypes, it was planned to recruit 6 consultants,
totalling 43 staff-months.
16.2      During the life of the Project, the following consultants were
recruited (Table 6A, Part III): teacher improvement, 63 consultants, for
teacher training (98.5 staff-months) and evaluation of implementation of the
PKG/SPKG program (21 staff-months); science equipment prototvyes, one
consultant for school science equipment (contracted with GTZ--21.5 staff-
months), consultants for the development of the PPR and PPR materials
(2.5 staff-months), consultants for distribution and school science equipment
management (2.5 staff-months), consultants for the pre-investment study
(4 staff-months), consultants for a study of the potential of the science
equipment industry in Indonesia (4 staff-months); information systems,
computer specialists (3.5 staff-months), one consultant for the school
administration system (1 staff-month) and computer-assisted instructors
(9 staff-months); and project management, consultants for local training and
fellowships (3 staff-months), consultants for monitoring and evaluation
reporting (8 staff-months), and consultants for finance (7 staff-months). The
actual provision of technical assistance, to some extent differed from the
plan, both in terms of the number of consultants recruited and the scheduling.
In other words, the implementation of the technical assistance program was
modified to adjust to the existing conditions and to fulfill the actual needs
in the field. Almost all of the consultants and specialists have worked well
according to their assignments, and they contributed a lot to the process of
training and other project activities.
16.3      In addition, seven consultants, consisting of five international
consultants and two national, were recruited. They were funded by the UNDP
project and worked on project management, communication information systems,
school administration, supply specifications, and innovation.



- 24 -
16.4      Overseas Training.  For the improvement of teaching, supervising,
and evaluating, it was planned to conduct overseas training for 693
instructors, supervisors, key headmasters, and project leaders, totalling
1,599 staff-months. For the development of science equipment prototypes, it
was planned to send 4 people, totalling 48 staff-months, to follow overseas
training on science equipment development and mass production. The Project
actually sent 458 participants, for about 1,604 staff-months to follow
overseas training, either short- or long-term as follows:
(a)  Short-term-The project conducted short-term training for about 13
English language instructors (469 staff-months); 27 supervisors (81
staff-months); 74 key headmasters (148 staff-months); 150 project
leaders (360 staff-months); and 30 staff (90 staff-months) on
computer-assisted instruction; and
(b)  Long-term-The Project also conducted long-term training for 44
participants, totalling 456 staff-months for 3 English language
program fellows (30 staff-months) and 41 science and mathematics
education fellows (426 staff-months).
For the prototype development process, 4 local technical staff were trained in
Federal Republic of Germany (48 staff-months).
16.5      Assisted by the UNDP project, along with GOI counterpart funds,
computer training through national workshops was also conducted. To operate
the computers, the operators joined both the national workshop (6 cycles) and
short-term overseas training (4 cycles). The project trained more than 100
provincial computer operators as well as Directorate and Project operators.
After successfully completing this training, the provincial computer operators
were able to operate the IDIS, SAS, LAKEPRO, and MMS/PPR. One of the results
of the training was the rapid receipt of information concerning LAKEPRO from
the Provinces. In addition, the operators' skills were significantly
improved.
16.6      Studies.  A survey of science equipment manufacturers was conducted
which led to the conclusion that most of the required high standard science
equipment could be produced in Indonesia, provided quality controls are in
place.  A survey of English language teaching was also conducted and the
findings recommended that the PKG training approach is the best way to help
the English teachers to master English language teaching. Another suggestion
stated that PKG activities should be expanded so that all the English teachers
could attend.
16.7      Unit II.  Consultants and Professional Services.  To strengthen the
EDC, it was planned to recruit 41 international consultants for 42 staff-
months in various fields relating to examinations development. During the
lifetime of the Project, 14 consultants with various backgrounds were drafted
totalling 18.5 staff-months (Table 6A, Part III). Their expertise was in
noncognitive assessment and training in test development, establishment of a
computer system, test development, development of an integrated computerized
item banking system, and drawing-up a strategy to manage a nationwide item



- 25 -
bank network. The relatively low utilization of the planned technical
assistance, 18.5 out of 42 staff-months, was due to the following reasons:
(a) most experts identified by the EDC to assist the Project in the
implementation of its program were associated with external
universities and thus not always available when needed;
(b) the limited time made available by the experts was not conducive to
the progress of work at the EDC; and
(c)  there were only a limited number of EDC staff who we,re able to serve
satisfactorily as the experts' counterparts and budgetary requests
were not initiated during the first two implementation years due to
varying views in BALITBANG administration as to the types of experts
to be hired.
16.8      Overseas Training.  To increase the performance of teachers,
headmasters, supervisors, evaluators, and other educational administrators in
the field of examinations, especially in their development, it was planned to
conduct overseas training for 110 fellows, totalling 1,807 staff-months. This
overseas training consisted of long-term programs (Masters and Doctoral
programs), short-term programs, and study visits as follows:
(a)  Masters Program-of the 66 slots allocated for the Masters program,
only 33 were delivered. The reasons for the low delivery were that
many candidates did not meet the English proficiency requirements of
the concerned universities, and the lifetime of the Project was not
enough to allow the candidates to complete their studies. The two
extensions of one year each were not known early enough to issue the
Statement of Awards. The 33 fellows completed their studies
successfully (one with a Diploma of Education) and assumed work at
their respective working units;
(b) Doctoral Program-of the 12 slots allocated for the Doctoral program,
only 5 fellows studied at the Doctoral level. Almost all of them (4
fellows) completed their studies while one fellow returned home
before completing his studies for personal reasons; and
(c) Overseas Short-Term Training/Studv Visits-the Project also sent 3
people for study visits overseas and 34 people for short-term
training overseas.
16.9      Studies.  Some studies were conducted on the development of item
banks and the establishment of an examination network in the provinces. The
current state of the item bank at EDC is as follows:
(a) at the primary school level, more than 2,000 items have been drafted
and reviewed;
(b) at the SMP level, an average of 1,000 items for each subject
examined in the yearly examinations are already in the bank,



- 26 -
although they are not yet calibrated. About 3,000 other items are
now waiting to be reviewed and then pilot-tested; and
(c) at the SMA level, 2,000 items for each subject tested in the yearly
examinations have been drafted. Parallel with the item development,
customized computer software which is specifically developed for
ease and efficiency of item banking operations, has also been
developed.
16.10     The Project also conducted research on the predictive validity of
university entrance examinations, analyzed the results of the 1986/87 yearly
examinations and developed models for psychologicaJ, essay and diagnostic
tests.
16.11     Unit III.  Consultants and Professional Services.  To assist the
development of management training programs, it was planned to provide 11
specialists (186 staff-months). They would work for the improvement of the
organization and procedures of the MOEC. During the lifetime of the Project,
two kinds of consultants were recruited, namely personnel and planning
consultants. They were recruited from Indonesian firms and located in all 27
provinces. After finishing their contracts, they reported to the Project.
Regarding personnel consultants, their recommendations to some extent
contributed to decision-making concerning career systems in the MOEC and a
computerized system in the Personnel Bureau. As for the planning consultants,
their recommendations contributed to decision-making concerning planning
systems and policy within the MOEC.
16.12     Overseas Training.  To improve the management capacity of the MOEC,
it was planned to conduct training programs for 258 participants, totalling
2,892 staff-months. They consisted of long-term (Masters and Doctoral) and
short-term programs. The targets of the training were the officials of the
Doctorates General within MOEC, senior provincial education officers,
prospective teachers college lecturers, and staff of MOEC's training college.
During the life time of the project the following training was accomplished.
(a)  Masters Program-from the target of 49 fellows, the Project sent 75
fellows to pursue a masters degree in Educational Management. All
of them completed their studies and are now actively helping their
respective working units.  Some of them have been promoted to higher
positions.
(b) Doctoral Program-from the target of 11 fellows, the Project sent
only 4 fellows for the PhD program in Educational Management. It is
hoped that 3 fellows will complete their studies at the end of 1991
while another one will complete his in mid-1992.
(c) Short-Term Program-from the target of 198 participants, the Project
provided short-term overseas training in logistics, office
organization, international cooperation, educational planning,
financial and personnel management, and management information
systems for 96 administrators. After finishing the training, to



- 27 -
some extent they contributed the knowledge and skills obtained from
the overseas training for the improvement of management in their
specific areas. They are now more capable in running their tasks
than they were before.
16.13     Studies.  To improve management within the MOEC, it was planned to
conduct studies on management. The studies were to cover all aspects of
management, including planning, operations, personnel, financial, procurement,
auditing, control systems and reporting systems. For this purpose, the
Project conducted three kinds of studies, namely a Training Needs Assessment,
Management Studies, and an Integrated Management Study, resulting in 25
reports, as follows:
(a) Training Needs Assessment-this study obtained data on the skills
and/or knowledge required by each working unit in the MOEC and
resulted in 17 reports which gave recommendations on the personnel
training needed for Echelon II, III, and IV staff of the units.
These recommendations have been used by the MOEC training college as
inputs into planning and implementing personnel training within the
MOEC;
(b) Management Studt-this study covered seven areas, namely:
(1) assessment of planning capabilities, needs, and potential at the
provincial level; (2) a feasibility study for a new salary payment
plan; (3) local financing for public primary and secondary 8chools;
(4) selection, appointment, and placement of new school teachers;
(5) evaluation of the role, performance, and potential of public
primary school headmasters and supervisors; (6) the management
system for primary schools; and (7) micromanagement of primary and
secondary schools. The application of study (1) has been carried
out by the Planning Bureau and also used by the Bureau to determine
who to hire as planning consultants. The results of study (2) were
used by the MOEC for the improvement of its salary system by using
banking services. The results of studies (3, 4, 5, 6, and 7) were
used as important inputs for an MOEC organizational study ongoing
under the Second Project; and
(c)  Integrated Management Study-this study was intended to recommend
ways to increase the effectiveness of delivering resources to
schools and other education units. The results of this study were
issued and implemented by Ministerial Decrees Nos. 0668/U/1989 and
03/U/1990 on integrated management within the MOEC.
16.14     Lessons Learned.  Many factors caused modifications in the programs
of technical assistance and fellowships. The difficulty in obtaining good
English-speaking candidates for the Masters program, for example, meant tha,
the target could not be fulfilled. This problem in English also negatively
affected the fellows' study abroad, and some needed to prolong their studies
while others failed. Not all graduates of long-term overseas training were
fully utilized in their fields of study on their return to their respective
working units. Tnis unexpected result might be due to having no good post-
overseas follow-up strategy. As for the provision of consultants, some firms



- 28 -
did not supply consultants with the qualifications needed by the Project.
This is one of the negative consequences of a contract being signed with a
firm rather than with an individual consultant.
17. Local Training
17.1      Unit I.  To improve the quality of education, in-country training
was planned for 42,000 science, mathematics, and English teachers, 1,850 key
teachers, 1,400 headmasters, 150 instructors, 80 key headmasters, 80
provincial supervisors, and 3 program leaders. During the lifetime of the
Project, the following in-country training was conducted for 123,432
participants, consisting of teachers and educational administrators in the
following fields:
(a)  Science:          Instructors                        163
Key teachers                     1,904
PKG participants                14,604
SPKG participants              57,304
(b)  Mathematics:      Instructors                        105
Key teachers                       714
PKG participants                 7,893
SPKG participants              31,360
(c)  English:          Instructors                        113
Key teachers                       318
PKG participants                 4,148
SPKG participants               4,770
In implementing this training, the school calendar was taken into account to
avoid participants being absent from teaching.  Training on science equipment
for teachers and students had been conducted since 1979. Those who had joined
the Ciketing training were appointed as instructors for science teachers at
the regional level. The selection of key teachers was mainly based on the
academic performance of trainees as observed by the instructors during their
training and on their educational background. The PKG training was positive
as, among other things: (a) the key teachers were directly involved in the
teaching/learning process so that they obtained direct experiences from
instructors, (b) the instructors had opportunities to observe the key teachers
in their teaching activities and obtained direct feedback on the student and
teacher worksheets, and (c) all teachers had an opportunity to discuss their
teaching problems and share their ideas to solve the problems. However,
during the implementation of the Project, some problems arose as follows:
(i) when the PKG training was on, the schools complained of lacking the
teachers to teach; (ii) teachers who lived in remote areas did not have a
chance to follow any PKG training; and (iii) PKG participants felt neglected
as there was insufficient support from their principals and supervisors.
17.2      Unit II.  The Project arranged intensive English courses on four
occasions of three months each as a part of pre-departure training. The
Project also conducted national as well as provincial in-service training,
nine and three times, respectively, on educational examinations. The national



- 29 -
training involved 521 participants, 252 at the SMP level and 269 SMA at the
SMA level. In addition, in the context of establishing a national examination
network in the provinces, training was conducted for 120 participants, 12
provincial education office staff and 108 SMP teachers.
17.3      Unit III.  The Project conducted a three-month intensive English
course for 75 Masters and 4 Doctoral candidates as part of their pre-departure
training.
17.4      Lessons Learned.  On the positive side, the Project obtained
valuable experience relating to the implementation of local training. The
successful PKG and computer training, for example, were two valuable
experiences that should be disseminated to other projects. However, on the
negative side, it was difficult to implement PKG training for teachers liing
on small islands, such as in the Provinces of Riau and Maluku, and in remote
areas. Some key teachers who were appointed to organize PKG activities were
less qualified in terms of their level of education as well as their age than
their students, so that they were not well appreciated by the participants.
Intensive English language training as a part of pre-departure training was
not very successful. Some participants could not fulfill the minimt.- English
scores required by the concerned universities.
18. Prolect Management. Monitoring and Supervision
18.1      To coordinate the activities of Units I, II and III during the
lifetime of the Project, the PMCC was established and chaired by the Director
of DIKMENUM.  In practice, the activities of the PMCC tended to focus on the
financial allocation for each Unit leaving other issues less well coordinated.
Therefore, each Unit worked more or less independently. To know how far the
subproject units within the provinces had carried out their activities, the
Project staff monitored the implementation of the programs in the provinces,
and concurrently, also collected data for reimbursement purposes and to allow
them to give directives to the subproject units to improve their skills in
budget management.
18.2      Bank's Performance.  There were two ways by which the Project
communicated with the World Bank-through correspondence and through Bank
review missions to Indonesia to monitor project implementation.
18.3      Bank's Performance through CorresDondence.  To recruit international
or national consultants, a no-objection letter from the World Bank was
required. This regulation was also valid for the award of ICB contracts after
they had been approved by the GOI. There was no problem as long as the
Project followed the World Bank Guidelines in recruiting consultants or
awarding the ICB contracts.  No-objection letters would be received promotly.
Temporary delays were always accompanied by requests for further clarification
and/or documentation to support the arguments of the GOI proposal. After the
Project fulfilled these requirements, the Bank promptly issued the no-
objection letter. In short, the service of the Bank to the Project was
satisfactory.



- 30 -
18.4      Bank's Performance through Review Missions to Monitor Prolect
Implementation. Communication through monitoring/review is better than
through correspondence because the former provides an opportunity to
communicate directly face-to-face. Generally, Bank mission members were
highly qualified in their respective fields. Open discussions without any
preconceived notions led to useful directions to overcome problems and to
achieve the expected outputs. This monitoring improved project management in
its financial and technical operations, introduced analyses of activities, and
led to action plans for budget disbursement to sustain the activities as
scheduled. Hopefully, based on the experience in this Project, DIKMENUM will
be in a position to design an effective network system to manage the Second
Project.
18.5      GOI Role.  The PIUs carried out their programs successfully due to
the assistance provided by concerned ministries. MOF and BAPPENAS allocated
the counterpart funds needed to implement the Project. The MOEC provided the
PIUs with the facilities needed to execute the Project. The GOI also provided
legal bases for smoothing project activities, such as MOEC Decrees and the
like.
18.6      Maior Lessons Learned.  During the lifetime of the Project, some
major experiences were obtained. Some were good and valuable experiences
while others were bitter ones. Whether good or bad, much was learned from
both. In the paragraphs following are the major lessons learned that should
be taken into account in designing and implementing future projects.
18.7      Better and more timely project performance evaluation reports would
provide more information on the activities of the Project. The reports should
preferably be received by the Bank before a review mission leaves Washington.
Unfortunately, it very often occurred that the Units had not prepared their
reports when the review missions arrived in Jakarta. Consequently, the review
could not be run as effectively and efficiently as planned. This condition
apparently resulted from the lack of capable project staff and the frequent
changes in key project personnel (i.e., Project Director, Treasurer,
Secretary, etc.). Hence, it is recommended that for the success of the future
projects, these problems must be seriously addressed, especially the problem
of the frequent turnover of key project personnel. On the last point, it is
recommended that the appointment of key project personnel should be for at
least for a three-year period each.
18.8      It seems that the activities of each subunit within Unit I were
carried out independently or with very little linkage with other subunit
activities. Each subunit set up its own programs without taking into account
other subunits' programs. This condition also occurred for the links among
the Units. Consequently, coordination among Units I, II, and III as well as
among subunits within Unit I, were very limited in terms of both planning and
implementation. Hence, future projects should stress coordination.
Coordination can be established at the beginning of a project by analyzing and
sorting the activities of each subunit as well as each implementing unit. It
is also rccommended that a body to monitor and coordinate project activities
should always be established.



- 31 -
18.9      The schools, the SNP and SMA principals, and the teachers involved
in school administration benefitted greatly from the Project. Efficient
administration will lead to improved teaching/learning. If possible, the SAS
should be enlarged gradually in the Second Project and should involve the
education sub-districts or the sanggars to collect and enter the data.
18.10     The IDIS software is designed for processing data from the SMPs and
SMAs. The software also links the Provincial DIKMENUM office with the
national DIKMENUM. All provincial offices have been provided with this
software and each has a Provincial Computer Coordinator who was especially
trained at Curtin University, West Australia. Some of the more capable
Coordinators will also be able to serve as programmers at the provincial
level.
18.11     Obtaining good English-speaking candidates for long-term overseas
training was very difficult to do and the results of the intensive English
training were not fully satisfactory. It is recommended, therefore, that if
relevant programs are available in universities in Indonesia, fellowships,
should be undertaken there.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2472-IND)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS IN THE SECONDARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
Loan/credit                                                                 Year
number and title                            Purpose                         approved       Status
Credit 387-IND                To help improve primary and secoudary           1973      Completed in
First Textbook Project        education through provision of textbooks                  December 1981
and in-service teacher training.
Loan 1433-IND                 To expand physical infrastructure for           1977      Completed in
First Teacher Training        pre- and in-service teacher training and                  June 1984
Project                       to develop teacher training materials.
Loan 2101-IND                 To assist pre- and in-service teacher           1982      Completed in
Second Teacher Training       training for primary, secondary and                       June 1989
Project                       special education and to develop teacher
training materials.
Loan 2102-IND                 To establish and develop a permanent            1982      Completed In
Second Textbook Project       institution for textbook development,                     June 1988
production and nation-wide distribution,
strengthen the Curriculum Development
Center, and print textbooks for primary
and secondary schools.
Loan 2940-IN!)                To improve accounting practices in both         1988      On-going
Accountancy Development       the public and private sectors, and the
Project                       quality of accounting education and to
prepare for future demand for accountancy
manpower.
Loan 2944-IND                 To improve sectoral planning,                   1988      On-going
Higher Education              institutional management in higher
Development Project           education, and educational quality and
efficiency.
Loan 3158-IND                 To improve secondary education quality,         1990      Or-going
Second Secondary Education   equity and management through in-service
and Management Project        teacher and supervisor training,
upgrading the MOEC's efficiency in
education and research.
Loan 3311-IND                 To support GOI's higher education               1991      On-going
Second Higher Education       development program to improve quality
Development Project           and efficiency in education and research.
Loan 3448-IND                 To support basic education quality and          1992      On-going
Primary Education Quality    management.
Improvement Project



- 34 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                   Date            Date
Item                                  planned                revised          actual
Identification
(Executive Project Susmmary)         03/26/83                                03/26/83
Preparation                           04/20/83-05/08/83                       04/20/83-05/08/83
Appraisal mission                      12/01/83-12/20/83                      12/01/83-12/20/83
Loan negotiations                     07/84                                   09/84
Board approval                        10/16/84                                10/16/84
Loan signatvre                        11/05/84                                11/05/84
Loan effectiveness                    01/28/85                                01/28/85
Loan closing (two extensions)         09/30/88               09/30/89
09/30/90        09/30/90
Last disbursement                     03/31/89                                02/28/91
Comments:   The project timetable of three-and-a-half years, for a first project in the
subsector, was unrealistic.
Table 3s LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Appraisal estimate                     2.4    14.0    36.5    69.9    78.0
Actual                                 4.3     8.9    14.7    27.6    43.1    57.6    76.6La
Actual as 2 of estimate                179      64       40      40       55      74       98
Date of final disbursement                                                               2/28/91
/a As of March 15, 1991, GOI was advised that US$1,362,850.48 was undisbursed and cancelled.
Comments:  Loan disbursement suffered during the first two years of project implementation
because provincial/central administrative procedures had not been fully defined. The first
disbursements for PKG training took about two years to process. Implementation efforts,
clarification of roles and documentation, and the introduction of statements of expenditure, by
the final year of the project, resulted in reducing the processing period to three unoths. Other
disbursement activities were reasonablv straightforward except for the numerous single technical
assistance contracts which caused work that could have been avoided if annual or agency rather
than single consultant contracts, had been signed.



- 35 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION GOALS: PLANNED vs. ACTUAL
Actual
Appraisal       (or PCR
Indicators                                             estimate        estimate)       Completion X
Civil works (number of buildings):
Sanggars (teachers centers) j/                              190              216             114
Central warehouse                                             1                1             100
Examination Developmenr Center                                1                1             100
Local training (number of participants): Lb
PKG:
Teachers:                                          42,000          120,115             286
Of which Science                                    -           71,944               -
Mathematics                                -          39,253
English                                    -           8,918                -
Instructors                                            150             381             254
Key teachers (regions)                              1,850            2,936              159
Headmasters                                         1,400            1,500             107
Provincial supervisors                                 80              100             125
Examination development                                    /c              543               -
Supply of equipment (number of schools)                   8,200            8,600/d           105
Specialist services (staff-months): /e
Teacher improvement                                   944              850              90
Science equipment                                       43              94             219
Information system development                           -               4               -
Examination development                                 42              18              43
Education sector management                            186         not available          -
Project management support                             116             123             106
Fellowships (number of fellowships): Le
Teacher improvement                                   693              458              66
Science equipment                                        4               4             100
Examination development                                110              70              64
Education sector management                            258             175              68
Staff development program for
economic reform /f                                  42          not available         -
Project management support                              19         not available          -
/a For of ths 216 project centers, in Ciketing, Jakarta, Bandung and Yogyakarta, have been
provided with workshop facilities for training in equipment maintenance and repairs.
lb In addition, training In computer operation and project management totalling about 450 staff-
months was provided to provincial steff under the UNDP project.
/c No target quantity set at appraisal.
/d About 7,500 schools had received supplies of equipment by September 1990 (Loan closing date).
At the completion of delivery, approximately 8,600 schools were expected to receive
equipment.
/e For details, see Table 6A.
/f HOp.



- 36 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5A1: Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
(US$ Million)
Actual
Appraisal              at
Category                                        estimate           completion             2 Change
Civil works                                        18.7                9.4                 -502
Equipment, materials and furniture                45.6                33.6                  -262
Consultants' and professional services,           20.9                31.4                 +502
overseas training and studies
Local training                                    43.2                29.0                  -332
Project management, monitoring and                  1.3                2.4                 +85Z
supervision
Total project cost                          129.7              105.8                  -182
Front-end fee on Bank loan                         0.2                 0.2
Total                                       129.9              106.0



Table 5A2: Project Costs by Implementation Unit
(US$ Million)
Unit I                 Unit II                Unit III                   Total /a
Category                              GOI    1BRD    Total   GOI    IBRD    Total   OI    IBRD    Total    GOI    IBRD    Total
Civil works                            3.20   4.12   7.32    1.05   1.05   2.10    0.00   0.00   0.00   4.25          5.17      9.42
Equipment, materials and furniture   7.28  25.48  32.76    0.13   0.52   0.65    0.04   0.16   0.20   7.45    26.16            33.61
Consultants' and professional          5.70fL 8.45  14.15    0.00   3.54   3.54    0.00   6.03   6.03   5.70    25.711c   31.41
services, overseas training and
studies
Local trainlng                        10.72  17.71  28.43    0.17   0.18   0.35    0.10   0.10   0.20  10.99    17.99          28.98
Project management, monitoring and   0.95   1.42   2.37    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.95            1.42      2.37
supervision
Total project cost                 27.85  57.18  85.03    1.35   5.29   6.64    0.14   6.29   6.43  29.34    76.45    105.79
Front-end fee on Bank loan                                                                                  0.00     0.19       0.19            w
Total                                                                                                   29.34    76.64    105.98
/a Includes costs of Units I, II and III, and the Ministry of Finance component.
Lb Includes $2.26 million financed by UNDP.
/c Includes $7,692,850 disbursed under training for Part F of the Project (Ministry of Finance).



- 38 -
Table 5B: Project Financing
Planned                   Revised                Final
(Loan Agreement)            (1986 & 1989)           (in 1990)
Source                                     (US$'000)       2          (US$'000)       t       (US$0000)   2
IBRD expenditure categories
(1) Civil works                               4,300           25        7,000           50       5,173      55
(2) Equipment, materials and furniture    35,000  100/100/85          35,000  100/100/85        26,151      78
(3) (a) Consultants' and professional        15,400          100       12,000          100      18,022      82
services, overseas training
and studies
(b) Training under Part F of                  -            -       3,400          100        7,693       -
the project
(4) Local training                           18,500           50       18,500           50      17,986      62
(5) Project management, monitoring                -            -        1,000          100        1,417     59
and supervision
(6) Fee                                         195            -          195            -          195      -
(7) Unallocated                               4,605            -          905            _            0      -
Total IBRD                                   78.000           60       78.000           66       76.637      72
Covernment                                   51.450           40       39.700           34       27.090      26
UNDP                                            400            _          400            0        2,260       2
Total                                   129.850          100     118.100           100     105.987    100
Comments:  The above captioned project costs show that the total project cost was US$105.98 million
compared with the appraisal estimates of US$129.9 million, with the Bank financing 722
(US$76.64 million), COI financing 262 (US$27.09 million) and UNDP financing 202 (US$2.26
million). The cost underrun, in term of the US dollars, of about 18S is largely attributable
to the devaluation of the Rupiah currency which took place during the project period.



- 39 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
Table 6A: Technical Assistance (Specialist Services)
Actual
Appraisal              at                  Rate of
Component/field of service                             escimate           completion            completion
(Staff-months) -(-)
Teacher improvement: /a
English language                                         60               70.8
Short-term consultancies:                                20
Science and mathematics                                 -               19.8
Secondary school development                            _                5.3
Use of computers                                        -                2.0
Survey of English language teaching                     -                1 0
English-speaking assistantc                             864              751.51_b
Subtotal                                            944             850.4                    90
Science equipment:
Prototypes:  School science equipment                    36               56.OI
specialist
Short-term consultancies                    5               25.5
Distribution and training specialist                      2                2.5
Development of Supply by School                           -                2.5
Response (PPR)
Studies                                                   -                8.0
Subtotal                                             43               94.5                  220
Information system development                               -                4.5
Examination development:
Cognitive tests                                           4                  _
Noncognitive tests                                        8                9.0
Item bank                                                 4                5.0
System analysis/computer science/                         5                1.5
management informarion
Cost effectiveness                                        3                  -
National examination system                               7                3 0
Essay testing                                             4                  -
Diagnostic testing                                        7                  _
Subtotal                                             42               18.5                   44
Education sector management training program:
Training                                                 36              )
Personnel management                                     36              )
Planning systems                                         36              )
Short-term consultancies                                  6              )Not available
Field supervision                                        72              )
Subtotal                                            186              )
ject management support                                 116              122.8/d                106
Total                                             1.331             .090-7                   82
In addition, one English advisor for three years and one science and math advisor for four years vere
provided by ODA, totalling approximately 84 staff-months.
IKIP instructors and senior teachers who assisted with PKC Engllsh language Instruction. Exact figures are
not available. The actual number is estimated on the assumption of 9 lintructor. per province, each vith 21i
months per year for the last 2I years plus one advisor for one year.
One long-term consultant (for five years) under a contract with GTZ.
Of which 10 consultants (7 international and 3 national), totalling 99.8 Slm, were provided under the UNDP
project.



- 40 -
Table 6B: Fellowships
Aspraisal estimate           Actual at completion           2
uponent/field of study                        St-term  MA  PhD   Total    St-term  MA  PhD   Total  Completion
-(Number of Fellows) ---------------
cher improvement:
cience and math instructors (study grants)   10         -    -      10                33/a  -      33
nstructor training:
Extension studies                               84     -    -      84        109      -    -    109
Further study for 302                           30     -    -      30         24      -    -      24
nglish supervisors extension                     35     -    -      35         27      -    -      27
roject leaders                                    3     -    -       3          -      -    -      -
valuation                                       243     -    -    243         150      -    -    150
edia special training                            60     -    -      60          -      -    _      _
ntensive English                                 60     -    -      60          -    ll/b  -       11
ey headmasters                                   84     -    -      84         74      -    _      74
omputer assisted instruction                      -     -    -       -         30      -    -      30
Subtotal: (number of fellows)                 693     -    -    693         414    44    -    458.    66
(staff-months)                       -     -    -  1.599           -      -    -  1.535       96
Science equipment development:
(number of fellows)                  4      -    -      4                    -     48    100
(staff-months)                       -     -    -      48          -      -    -      48    100
mination development:
sychology (test and measurement)                  -     4    3       7          -      2    -       2
ducation psychology (learning)                    -      -    I       I          -     -    l       l
ocial psychology                                  -      -    1       1          -     -    -       -
linical psychology                                -     -    I       I          -      -    -       -
rganizationallindustrial psychology               -     -    1       1          -      -    -       -
ducation (curriculum)                                    1    1      2           -     -    -       -
ducation (research and evaluation)                -    30    1      31           -    16    1      17
ducation (planning)                               -      1    1      2           -     -    -       -
omputer science                                   -     2    1       3           -     -    -       -
tatistics                                         -     2    1       3           -     -    -       -
athematics teaching                               -     3    -       3           -     2/c  -       2
cience teaching                                   -      1    -       1          -     -    _       -
iology teaching                                   -      I    -       1-
hysies teaching                                   -      2    -       2          -     -    -       -
hemistry teaching                                 -      I    -       I          -     -    -       -
istory teaching                                   -     l    -        I         -      -    -       -
eography teaching                                 -      1    -                  -     -    -       -
conomics teaching                                 -      1    -       1          -     -    -       -
nglish teaching                                   -     2    -       2           -     _    _       _
ndonesian teaching                                -      1    -                  -     -    -       -
raphics                                           -     2    -       2          -      -    -       -
ibrary science                                    -      1    -       I         -      -    -       -
anagement information system                      -      2    -       2          -     _    _       _
ystem analysts                                    -      2    -       2          -     -    -       -
ducation (technology)                                    I -    -                -     4    -       4
nternational education                            -      -    -       -          -     -
ducation (administration)                         -      I    -       1          -     -    -       -
sychometry                                        -      2    -       2          -     -    1       1
sychology (general)                               -            -                -      -    -       -
eacher education                                  -      -    -       -          -     2    -       2
usiness education                                 -      -    -       -          -     I             I 1
inguistices/language education                    -      -    -       -          -     2    _       2
ttachment program                                20      -    -     20         34      -    -      34
tudy visits/tours                                12     -    -       12         3      -    -       3
Subtotal: (number of fellows)                  32    66   12    110          37    29    41d   70        64
(staff-months)                        -      -    -  1.807           -     -    -    789       44



- 41 -
Pellowshius cont'd
Aporaisal estIMate         Actual atcompletion              S
mponent/field of study                        St-term  MA  PhD   Total    St-term  MA  PhD   Total    Ctmpletion
lon sector m8mt. training programs
awship program by agency:
retariat General                           64    12    5      81        )      15    1      16
pectorate General                           6      1    -      7        )       3    -       3
ectorates General (Secretar4ats)           20     8    -      28        )       7    -       7
nter for Staff Tra_ning                     10      3    4     17        )       1    2       3
nwils                                       78    13    -      91        )je    39    -      39
IPs                                         20    12    2      34        )       4    -       4
atekkom                                      -      -    -      -        )       4    -       4
binbangsa                                                                       I _    _  _  )  1    -  I
binpustak                                   -      -    -      -                      I _    1  1
_ject Matter Center (Bahasa)                 -      -    -      -        )       I    -       I
;-term program by field of trai_ing:/e
gistics and office management                _      _    _                36     -    -      36
ganization mangement                         _      _    _                10     -    -      10
ternational cooperation                      -      -    -                 4     -    -       4
-ation planning                             -      -    -      -         15     -    -      15
=.:ial management                          _      _    _      _          9     -    -       9
onnel management                           -      -    -      -         14     -    -      14
gement information system                                                a _    _  _   8  -    -  8
Subtotal: (number of fellows)               198    49   11    258          96    75    4    175       68
(staff-months)                      -     -    -  2.892          -      -    -  1.956      68
aff Development Program for Economic
Reform (MOF) (number of fellows)                  -    34    8     42               (not available)
management support:
Subtotal: (number of fellows)                 19      -    -     19              (not available)
(staff-months)                       -     _    _
Total: (number of fellows)                946   149        1 126        551   148    8    707       63
(staff-months)                       -     -    - VI4 -    -    T                           68
ludes 21 postgraduate diplomas.
tgraduate diplomas.
postgraduate diploma.
additional fellowship was awarded but not completed.
breakdown of the short-term training participants by agency is available. Therefore they are
sented by field of training.
s component was added in 1988 by an amendment to the Loan Agreement.
a: On the whole, 707 fellows completed overseas training (551 short-term, 148 MA and 8 PhD)
epresent about 63Z of the planned 1,126 (946 short-term, 149 MA and 31 PhD) fellowships. In terms
f-months, it was 4,328, about 68% of the 6,383 planned at appraisal. (This needs to be revised
ssing information has been obtained.) Nearly all the candidates, except one from a PhD program,
fully completed their training. Apparently, the original fellowship program was too ambitious and
stic for a three-year project, particularly the degree programs whld !equire from two to five
to complete. Nevertheless, in spite of the time constraints, with two one-year extensions of the
j Date, the program was largely successfully completed.
Under the teacher improvement component, part of the provisions for short-term training were shifted
ee programs (postgraduate diplomas and MAs) to meet the changing needs in the subsector. Also,
education sector management training program component, WOEC decided during project
ntation, with Bank concurrence, to increase degree programs by redirecting some of the funds
ed for short-term training to fit the identified shortages as well as to take into account the
R expressed by BAPPENAS about the effectiveness of short-term training. As the result, 79 fellows
d degree programs compared with the 60 planned while only 96 fellows completed the short-term
_ compared with the 198 planned at appraisal for the component.



42
Table 7:  STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement                                                          Deadline
section            SubJect                                        for compliance    Status
3.05            Acquire all such land and rights in respect         03/31/85    In compliance
of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, satisfactory evidence that such
land and rights are available for purposes
related to the Project.
3.06            Appoint staff to the additional positions                        In compliance
being established in the Examinations Center
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.07            Carry out the study to assess the training           12/31/85    In compliance
needs of MOEC staff in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and
furnish the results to the Bank.
3.08            Carry out an MOEC management study in                12/31/86    In compliance
accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish the
results to the Bank.
Comments:
3.05 -   All land was acquired in a timely way although about five sanggars were located in
school sites where joint ueilization by the school and PKG was not possible.
3.06 -   It should be noted, however, that full staffing did not occur until the final year of
project implementation.
3.07 -   As indicated in para. 6.12, the one study planned vas undertaken as seven smaller
studies.
3.08 -   The Project was in compliance but the reporting and follow-up were weak.



- 43 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Table 8A: Staff Inputs
Stage of
project cycle            1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  Total
Through appraisal         1.4   39.6                                                                 4.0
Appraisal through                       57.7    4.6                                                 62.3
Board approval
Board approval through                          6.3                                                 6.3
effectiveness
Supervision                                     10.6   16.7   19.8   17.4   12.4    5.1    4.9   86.9
Total              1.4   39.6   57.7   21.5   16.7   19.8   17.4   12.4    5.1    4.9  196.5
Table 8B: Missions
Stage of                                  No. of    Days in  Specialization  Performance   Type of
project cycle              Month/year    persons    field   represented la   rating /b    problems le
Through appraisal          04/17/83        na           na            A,E
06/13/83       na           na          A,C,E
Appraisal through          --/12/83         4           na              E
Board approval           04/12/84         4            5       A,E,M,O
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision                --/03/85         2           41           A,E              1
10/27/85        2           49            A,E             1        M
03/24/86         1           5              E             1      M,F
11/11/86         1          26              E             2        M
02/09/87         1          13              E             3        M
06/08/87         1          12              E             2      M,F
11/02/87         1          12              E             2        M
03/07/88         1          17              E             2        M
10/20/88        1           19              E             2        U
11/13/89        1            6              E             2        1
03/11/90        3           19            A,E             2        M
06/19/90         1          10              E             2        M
/a   A-Architect, C-Economist, E=Educator, M=Management Training Specialist, O0Operations Assistant.
Lb 1-minor or no problems; 2-moderate problems; 3-major problems.
/c M=managerial; T-technical; F=financial.



- 45 -
ANfDEX
Proiect Components of the Second Secondary Education and Management Proiect
(Loan 3158-IND)
The main emphases of the project are:
Quality:
(a) the continuation of teacher upgrading in science, mathematics and
English while introducing upgrading programs in Bahasa Indonesia and
the social sciences--the teacher upgrading programs are being
regionalized and by the end of the project will be transferred to
the teacher associations to ensure continuity;
(b) nationalization of the piloted science equipment procurement and
distribution, responding to individual school needs, and
establishment of equipment maintenance program in the regions will
occur; and
(c) organization and training of regional or provincial
examination/evaluation teams with continued support to the national
Examination Development Center and organization of the first
national master's level assessment and evaluation program at a
national university are being supported.
Management:
(a) continuation of support for the collection of integrated management
and education data necessary for effective management, for
streamlining the duplication and for speeding the access to required
information;
(b) support for MOEC to review its Management Information System (MIS)
and to integrate it for more effective management;
(c) support for a skills analysis of all MOEC units to assess the skills
required by each unit and on that basis to develop "hands-on"
national and regional training programs to improve the management of
the MOEC; and
(d) undertaking a national and regional evaluation and monitoring
exercise for the preparation of annual provincial and national work
and budgetary programs while testing ways to improve the flow of
information and facilitate management decisions.



