Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16761
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 3182-IND)
June 23, 1997
Policy and Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1989     1990     1991      1992     193      1994      1995     1996
US$1.00= Rp.    1770       1850      1954     2034     2090     2165      2225     2305
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia
April I - March 31
PERUMTEL/PT TELKOM
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASEAN                    Association of South East Asian Nations
BAPPENAS                 National Development Planning Agency
DGPT                     Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications
FRG                      Federal Republic of Germany
ICB                      International competitive bidding
IDD                      International direct dialing
ITU                      International Telecommunication Union
JOS/KSO                  Joint Operation Scheme/Kerja Sama Operasi with foreign operators
MTPT                     Ministry of Tourism, Post and Telecommunications
OSP                      Outside plant
PERUM                    Public corporation
PERUMTEL                 Perusahaan Umum Telekomuinikasi (Telecommunications Public
Corporation)
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
PMC                      Program Management Consultant
PT INDOSAT               State international telecommunications company
PT TELKOM                PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (State Domestic Public
Telecommunications Company)
REPELITA                 National Five-Year Development Plan
SISKA                    Computerized Network Administration System
TC                       Telecommunications
UNDP                     United Nations Development Programme
Vice President                   .  J. M. Severino
Director                      .  Marianne Haug
Division Chief                      Peter R. Scherer
Staff Member/Task Manager                  A. Shanmugarajah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface...........................................................................................................................
Evaluation Summary  ................................................................                                   i
Part 1:   Project Implementation Assessment ..............................................................I
A.   Background and Project Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                            .4
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project                                      .9
D.  Project Sustainability .l 
E. Bank Performance .12
F.  Borrower Performance                                               .12
G.  Assessment of Outcome .                                                                                12
H. Future Operation .13
i.  Key Lessons Learned .13
Part II:  Statistical Table ..............................................................                            15
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .                                                                           16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3: Project Timetable .19
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs .........................................................                         25
Table 8B:  Project Financing ........................                .................................     26
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits (Input) ............................................              27
Economic Costs and Benefits (Output) .........................................             28
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................            29
Table I 1:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............                       ...........  31
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................    31
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................             32
Appendices:
A.   Mission's Aide Memoire ............................                 .............................     34
B.   Borrower Contribution to the ICR  .........................................................           53
C.   Map (IBRD  No.22076) ......................                  ...................................      58
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182 - IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
Telecommunications Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3182-IND in the amount of US$ 350
million was approved on March 27, 1990, and made effective on October 5, 1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996, two years later than the original closing
date. The extension of the project implementation period had been agreed upon to enable
completion of contracts which had been delayed due to difficulties in obtaining rights of way for
cable routes. At Borrower's request resulting from project cost savings and from adjustment of
some components to be implemented under separate subsequent development program, US$
37.5 million of the loan amount was canceled in 1995. The last disbursement took place on May
6, 1997, and the undisbursed balance of US$ 11.4 million was cancelled as of this date.
Disbursements under the loan totalled US$ 301.1 million equivalent. Cofinancing for the project
was provided by KfW and OECF, the bilateral development financing agencies of Germany and
Japan, respectively, for the foreign exchange costs and by Perumtel/PT. Telkom, the Beneficiary,
for local costs.
The ICR was prepared by A. Shanmugarajah, Y. Kawamura, and M. Scoffier
(consultant) of the Telecommunications and Informatics Division (IENTI). It was reviewed by
P. Scherer, Chief, Policy and Operations Division; and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Acting Operations
Adviser, Country Department EA3, whose comments were included in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission to Indonesia in March 1997. The Borrower and the Beneficiary contributed to
preparation of the ICR by providing documentary information and presenting views reflected in
the mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and providing a comprehensive report on the
project's execution and completion, including an Evaluation Summary which is attached as
Appendix B to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.       The  Third  Telecommunications  Project, the  first in  a  series  of large
telecommunications investment loans to the Government of Indonesia to support the
implementation of broad-ranging sector reforms which had been designed and initiated under the
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2757-IND approved in October 1986) and the Sector Study
(Report No. 7842-IND, 1990).
Project Development Objectives and Description
2.       Based on reviews, analyses and assessments during the TA Project and the sector
study, the primary development objectives of the project were defined as follows: (a) to assist the
GOI in improving overall management of the sector; (b) enhance PERUMTEL's institutional
capability; and (c) support cost-effective and efficient implementation of a large investment
program.
3.       Two main components of the project were: (a) an institution building component to
provide substantial technical assistance to MTPT and PERUMTEL. Technical Assistance to
MTPT was designed to establish a process for the annual development and approval of
PERUMTEL's corporate plan; to assist in the review of the telecommunications sector policies,
and to develop MTPT's telecommunications regulatory capabilities. Technical Assistance to
PERUMTEL was designed to strengthen its managerial and developmental capabilities through
training in financial and human resources management; to improve its capability in project design,
implementation and supervision, and to enhance its skills and business practices in the managerial,
financial, technical and operational fields through a "twinning" arrangement with a developed
telecommunications entity; and (b) a physical component in support of PERUMTEL's 1989-93
investment program for development, modernization and operational improvement of
telecommunications facilities. The physical component of the project provided for: (i) interface
equipment to fully utilize the large, idle capacity in domestic networks, and connect about 125,000
main telephone lines; (ii) modernization and expansion of the local telephone networks to
connect about 475,000 main lines, focusing primarily on the seven major cities where unmet
demand was most critical;  (iii)  computer systems to modernize and improve network
maintenance and operation procedures and overall management systems; and (iv) training
programs and equipment for upgrading facilities in Bandung and twelve regional training centers.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.       The project achieved all its institutional and organizational strengthening and its
physical targets. PT. TELKOM (the successor corporation to PERUMTEL) achieved many of the
original performance targets and in several cases exceeded these even before project completion.
This resulted in much needed rapid network expansion to meet demand, improvement in
PERUMTEL's operations, with significant productivity gains, and continued evolution toward
sector liberalization and its opening to competition. The achievements under this project are being
further advanced through two subsequent Bank operations, substantiating the need for long term
assistance for reform and development of the Indonesian telecommunications sector as outlined in
the 1989 Bank's Sector Study Report.
5.       The Third Telecommunications Project has to be assessed against the background of an
expectation by the Government that the Bank would support Government through a series of
operations to implement broad ranging reforms to address the constraints identified through the
earlier TA project. Therefore, the Third Project was envisaged as the first in a series of operation,
hence was designed to lay the foundation for subsequent major sector reforms including entry of
world class telecommunications service providers, competition in all segments of the sector,
reorganization of the established public telecommunications service provider and strengthening the
regulatory capability in the Government.  While the investment component of the project
constituted traditional time-slice financing of TELKOM's investment program, in particular
positioning Indonesia to take full advantage of advanced technologies and modem management
practices, its policy and institutional development component was aimed at reorganizing the sector
and providing opportunity for private investors and operators participation in subsequent Bank
lending operations. Specifically, a high level seminar, co-sponsored by the Bank and the
Government, brought together for the first time various stakeholders in a public forum. The
seminar was instrumental in establishing that the telecommunications law, if amplified by
appropriate Presidential decrees, would not exclude private sector participation in the provision of
basic services, which hitherto had been considered the exclusive domain of state-owned
companies. Specifics were ironed out subsequently in a workshop attended by senior Government
officials and Bank staff. This workshop paved the way for splitting TELKOM into regional
companies and the divestiture of all but two of TELKOM's regions though competitive bidding to
private investors/operators.  As a result, Indonesia's telecommunication sector has been
transformed from a monopoly of two state-owned companies for domestic (TELKOM) and
international (INDOSAT) services, respectively, to a multi-private/public operator environment
with competition in essentially all segments of the market.
6.       PERUMTEL and later TELKOM has achieved impressive performance improvements
in terms of network expansion, quality of service and productivity as evidenced by: (a) expanding
network facilities, the average number of main lines connected each year was about 300,000 lines
or an average yearly growth of about 28 percent compared to planned 17 percent; (b) improving
the operating performance - long distance cell completion improved from 23 percent in 1990 to 43
percent in 1994, and labor productivity increased from 39 employees per 1,000 connected lines
(DELs) in 1990 to 17 in 1994 (surpassing the original target of 20); and (c) reducing unit network
development costs - these have come down from US$ 3,000 in 1990 to US$ 1,200 in 1994,



iii
corresponding savings are about US$ 1.5 billion per annum. The introduction of new MIS enabled
drastic improvements in both speed and timeliness of audit reports, a pre-requisite for TELKOM's
financial autonomy (five years of unqualified independent audit reports are required by law before
a company can issue shares in the local capital market). Audits have been unqualified since 1989
and completed within four months of the close of the fiscal year.
7.       Several factors explain the highly successful achievement of all the objectives of the
project: (a) the Bank had from the beginning a clear, explicit strategy for assistance to the sector;
(b) major procurement and other pitfalls during implementation were avoided through building
adequate capacity in TELKOM, hands-on advice through supervision and providing TA under the
project; (c) the Government was committed to using the TA under the project to carry out in-
depth analyses and to propose options to restructure the sector; (d) the project design was based
on sound analytic work carried out under the earlier TA; and (e) TELKOM had a clear stake in a
successful implementation of the project as on it depended Bank investment loans and bilateral
support. Only detraction from this successful operation was a delay of 18 months in the
construction of outside plant maintenance centers and the implementation of outside plant due to
external factors, namely problems TELKOM faced in acquiring sites for equipment buildings and
rights-of-way for cable routes.
8.       PT TELKOM makes a large contribution to GOI's treasury. In fiscal year 1994, for the
first time it became the largest corporate taxpayer in Indonesia, with tax receipts amounting to
Rupiahs 272 billion (US$ 126 million equivalent).
Bank and Borrower Performance
9.    The performance of the Borrower, the Beneficiary and of the Bank were all highly
satisfactory. All covenants included in the Loan and Project Agreements were complied with.
The Government values the Bank as a unique source of cross country experience and as a
stabilizing factor in helping oversee major players and in mitigating policy reversals. Common
shared vision, mutual trust and long-term relationship developed between the Bank staff and the
Government made it possible to address constructively the most difficult and sensitive policy
issues relating to restructuring the sector and opening it to private sector participation. GOI and
TELKOM in evaluating their experience stressed the harmonious and fruitful working relationship
with the Bank.
Future Operation and Project Sustainability
10.      Two additional operations were approved in 1992 and 1995 to help the Government to
implement major institutional changes developed under this project. Key elements pursued under
these projects are private operator entry through competitive bidding, establishment of
performance targets for service quality throughout the country and tariff cum enforcement
mechanisms to ensure compliance at low cost. While Bank financing for telecommunications
investments has come to a close, the Bank will continue to assist the Government in developing a
stronger regulatory capability in the Government and in developing knowledge oriented initiatives.



iv
With Bank financial and technical assistance, TELKOM is now in a position to finance its
investments needs through retained earnings and commercial borrowing. TELKOM management
has a proven track record of continuous significant improvements in its performance over the last
five years. It is well equipped to compete with the private sector operators.
Assessment of Outcome
11.   The project outcome is judged highly satisfactory. All the institutional, organizational
objectives and adjusted physical targets of the project were accomplished, and exceeded in several
aspects. The project was successful in paving the way for an increased and broader Bank
assistance to the sector to address key sector issues: sector financing constraints, introducing
competition in all important market segments and building Government capability in regulatory
oversight.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
12.      Three important lessons were learned during the implementation of the project. First,
is active participation and commitment of all stakeholders not only during implementation but also
preparation are prerequisites for success in reforming of public utilities operating in monopoly
environment. From the very beginning, extensive and focused efforts made by the Bank staff to
involve senior government officials, senior staff of TELKOM and donors in an interactive process
of sector development, restructuring and commercialization based on Bank's 1989 Sector Report.
The result was broad consensus among all parties on the principal elements and the process of
sector reforms and the specifics of implementation.
Second lesson, continuity of competent and committed personnel, with proper skill mix, at the
Borrower, Project Entity, and the Bank, and above all, decisive leadership by the Borrower are
critical to the creation of mutual trust and understanding for resolving the many sensitive issues
involved in sector reform of large public utilities. In the same vein, it proved to be of critical
importance that key staff in the Ministry and TELKOM had been trained under the previous TA
project and that agreement on strategy had been reached through joint efforts in preparing the
Sector Study.
Third, inclusion of policy conditionalities in loan agreements is not a pre-requisite to effective
Bank intervention on major policy issues or assurance that agreed policy reforms are undertaken.
In Indonesia, the approach successfully adopted by the Bank was: (a) formulating through early
consensus among all parties a coherent strategic agenda for the sector and ensuring that local
officials assumed intellectual ownership; (b) an explicit commitment by the Bank to a long-term
strategy of assistance to the sector spanning several operations with combined objectives of
institutional development and investments for physical development.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182-IND)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background and Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
Background
I.       The Third Telecommunications Project in Indonesia, which was supported by the
US$ 350.0 million Bank Loan 3182-IND to the Government of Indonesia (GOI), was mainly
implemented by Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (PERUMTEL), the domestic telecom-
munications (TC) service provider, a state enterprise that dominates the telecommunications
sector in the country. An amount of US$ 2.0 million from the loan was for the Ministry of
Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT) which has the general responsibility and
effective control of the sector both by virtue of GOI's statutory authority over public
telecommunications (TC) services and radio licensing, which includes formulation of sector
policy, strategic planning, tariffs and regulatory oversight, and as owner of the major sector
entities, PERUMTEL for domestic and PT INDOSAT for international TC services.
2.       PERUMTEL was the beneficiary and the project implementation agency for US$
348.0 million of the loan under a subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOI and a Project Agreement
with the Bank. The project included provision of equipment and operational facilities for
substantial expansion and modernization of the networks under the program for public
telecommunications of REPELITA V, the Fifth National Five-Year Development Plan, for 1989-
93. It also included technical assistance to improve PERUMTEL's managerial, financial and
technical capabilities and to address the organizational, operational and developmental
constraints in the provision and expansion of basic TC services. US$ 2.0 million of the loan
proceeds was for technical assistance to MTPT for reviewing sector policy, analyzing statutory
and institutional issues, strengthening the regulatory and related analytical and organizational
capabilities of the Ministry's Directorate General for Posts and Telecommunications (DGPT),
and improving the GOI-PERUMTEL corporate development planning and approval process.
Previous Bank Involvement and Experience in the Sector
3.       Bank assistance to Indonesia's telecommunications sector started in 1971 with an
IDA credit of US$ 12.8 million equivalent (Cr.210-IND). The physical part of the project was
successfully completed and the credit fully disbursed in 1975, but only part of the project's
institutional objectives were met. A ten-year hiatus in the relationship between the Bank and the
TC sector in Indonesia followed the completion of the first project because of GOI-PERUMTEL



2
insistence on tied procurement through bilateral financing. Recognizing the need to rapidly
develop an efficient and adequate countrywide telecommnicaations network in early 1984, GOI
requested resumption of Bank assistance to the sector to support sector development,
organizational improvement and structural reform. The Bank responded with preparation and
approval of a second lending operation for the Technical Assistance (TA) Telecommunications
project. Loan 2757-IND of US$ 14.5 million was approved in October 1986 and became
effective in May 1987. The TA project was satisfactorily completed in December 1990, and
served as a stepping stone for a future, long-term relationship between the Bank and the sector in
Indonesia during the period when ambitious TC development objectives for the sector were
considered by GOI under the upcoming National Five-Year Plans, REPELITA V (1989-93) and
VI (1994-98), respectively.
4.       Given the importance of the structural and organizational issues stressed under the TA
project, and the magnitude of the planned TC development programs, (US$ 1.2 billion and US$
3.0 billion, respectively, under the proposed National Plans REPELITA V and VI), the Bank
undertook a comprehensive study of the Telecommunications Sector in 1989. at GOI's request.
The objectives of the study were to: (i) develop a strategy for institutional development of the
sector to enable to enable it to contribute effectively to Indonesia's economic development; (ii)
recommend necessary changes in policy, legislation and regulation; and (iii) develop a pipeline
of projects for further Bank operations in support of the long-term development of the TC sector.
5.       The reviews and discussions on the sector status and its requirements during the TA
project and the TC Sector Study, and GOI's willingness to consider further steps in the TC sector
reform to address its policy and development issues, resulted in the preparation and appraisal of a
third Bank operation. Loan 3182-IND of US$ 350 million for the Third Telecommunications
Project, which is the subject of this ICR, was approved in March 1990 and completed in
December 1996. The project was also supported by bilateral financing totalling about US$ 200
million equivalent from Germany (KfW) and Japan (OECF), and by about US$ 600 million
equivalent from PERUMTEL's own resources (Table 8B in Part II). Subsequently, based on the
Sector Study, the Bank approved two further operations, Loan 3482-IND of US$ 375 million
equivalent in 1992, and Loan No. 3904-IND of US$ 325.0 million equivalent in 1995 (Table 2,
in Part II). These two projects are still under implementation.
Statement and Evaluation of the Project Objectives
6.       GOI's Strategy for the Telecommunications Sector. Recognizing that pre-requisite
for achieving the country's economic goals was the availability of reliable and efficient systems
for the generation, transmission and processing of information which, in turn, requires an
efficient countrywide telecommunications network, the Government's strategy for the
telecommunications sector was to: (i) increase rapidly and cost-effectively the quantity and
quality of telecommunications services to meet the growing demand for these services; (ii)
increase the commercial orientation and efficiency of the public sector entities in the
telecommunications sector;  (iii)  promote a well-conceived organizational structure and
management functions, systems and practices to enable PERUMTEL to operate the expanded
services efficiently and effectively; and (iv) promote sound domestic construction, consulting



3
and, where economically feasible, manufacturing industries to support the telecommunications
sector.
7.       Project Development Objectives. In line with the above sector strategy, the principal
development objectives of the Third Project were: (a) assistance to the Government in
formulating appropriate sector policy and regulations and in developing mechanisms to manage
the sector efficiently; (b) improvement of PERUMTEL's institutional efficiency through a
program of human resource development for effective management; and introduction of modem
facilities for efficient operations and maintenance of the network. and (c) accelerated expansion
and modernization of the telecommunications facilities in the country as a whole, focusing
primarily on the seven major cities:
8.       Project Summary Description. The project was designed to meet the above objectives
through (a) an institution building component to provide substantial technical assistance to both
the MTPT and PERUMTEL, and (b) a physical component in support of PERUMTEL's 1989-
1993 investment program for development of telecommunications facilities.
9.       The Institution Building Component. This included: (a) Technical Assistance to
MTPT to (i) establish a process leading to the annual development, and subsequent approval by
the Government, of PERUMTEL's corporate plan; (ii) assist in a review of the TC sector
policies; and (iii) develop the telecommunications regulatory and analytical capability of DGPT;
and (b) Technical Assistance to PERUMTEL to strengthen its managerial capabilities through:
(i) a management and professional development program using a combined program of
academic training at foreign universities and working intemships in selected fields at a developed
telecommunications entity; (ii) a "twinning" arrangement with a developed telecommunications
entity to enhance PERUMTEL's managerial, financial and technical capabilities; and (iii)
consultancy to develop further PERUMTEL's capability in project design, engineering,
implementation, and supervision.
10.      The Physical Component. This component supported PERUMTEL's 1989-1993
investment program under the REPELITA V National Five-Year Plan through provision of: (a)
interface equipment to utilize fully the existing idle capacity in the network and to connect about
125,000 main lines; (b) switching equipment, associated cable distribution network and
subscriber terminal equipment, including 35,000 pay phones, to connect about 475,000 main
lines; (c) PCM cable and fiber-optic cable transmission facilities to provide inter-exchange
junction links within multi-exchange areas; (d) computer systems to establish computerized
network management systems; (e) equipment and facilities, such as testing equipment and tools,
to establish at least six outside plant maintenance centers, and (f) support, together with UNDP,
of a training program for upgrading facilities in the central training center in Bandung and
twelve regional training centers, through ITU experts, fellowships for training center staff and
provision of training equipment.
11.      The project design and its objectives were to both assist the country and the main
operating entity in modernizing and developing the TC networks to support economic growth
and, simultaneously, ensure the transition in feasible steps from Government -type operation of a
monopolistic utility to autonomous commercial operations of the services, with separate



4
authorities in charge of the regulatory and service provision functions.  PERUMTEL's
development objectives for 1989-93 were ambitious. About 400,000 additional lines in 1993,
compared to about 65,000 during 1988-89. Also about one million lines of obsolete switching
and transmission equipment were to be replaced with digital technology. Taken together,
installation of three million exchange lines and associated facilities were involved. The project
was coordinated with cofinanciers from Germany and Japan to ensure that future sector
development was properly integrated and cost-effective.
12.     In May 1991, GOI transformed PERUMTEL from  "state enterprise" into a state-
owned "limited liability corporation" - PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (PT. TELKOM).
TELKOM's capital was divided in shares which were initially owned by GOI, but the private
sector could participate in its ownership in the future. In late 1991, a separate GOI's decree
enabled MTPT to license qualified private operators to offer non-basic services independent of
TELKOM and INDOSAT. These were important steps toward the much-needed institutional
improvement and strengthening of the capabilities of the main TC operator, as well as towards
enabling private sector participation in the sector's activities and development.
13.      Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives and components of the Third TC Project
were fully consistent with and supportive of the Government strategy, and feasible in light of:
(a) the constrained past development and operation of the TC services which badly needed to be
improved and substantially expanded; (b) the much-needed evolution of the TC sector
institutional set-up; and (c) PERUMTEL's capabilities as assessed during the TA project and
the Sector Study. It is also of note that, at the time of Third Project preparation and inception in
1990, the worldwide trend toward liberalization and opening of the TC services to private sector
participation and competition, and establishing adequate regulations for operation of the TC
sector was only just beginning, and it was considered that, with Bank's assistance, Indonesia
could determine and introduce suitable changes and improvements in the development and
operation of its TC sector.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
14.     Institutional Improvements and Management Strengthening. Significant improve-
ments and changes in the institutional set-up of the TC sector in Indonesia and in the
management, organization, operation and capabilities of the main operating entity for domestic
services took place during the implementation of the Technical Assistance Project from 1987 to
1990; and the Third TC project from 1991 to 1996. These two operations included technical
assistance to enhance PERUMTEL's efficiency by improving its development planning and
implementation capabilities, restructuring its Development and Financial Directorates and staff
training. Consultants services were also included to identify the main sector issues and the needs
for reform in order to better cope with the very large development requirements and operational
responsibility in the longer terrn. The third project included management enhancement for
PERUMTEL/PT TELKOM and policy consultants for MTPT for introduction of limited
competition and private sector participation in the sector. Positive results materialized fully
under the subsequent Fourth and Fifth Bank operations. Through its policy, investment and
technical assistance components, the Fifth (TSM) project supported the implementation of a



S
comprehensive sector reform program with the objective of gradually enabling private sector
entry and participation, and opening to competition in virtually all segments of the TC sector.
15.      The major steps taken with Bank's advice and assistance in the reform and structural
improvements of the TC sector in Indonesia are detailed in Part II, Appendix A (Attachment 2 to
the Aide Memoire). Institutionally, the main achievements during the implementation period of
the Third Project were the following: (a) in 1989, GOI changed the Telecommunications Law
(Law No. 3/89) to permit the two main operators, PERUMTEL and INDOSAT, to establish
ventures with private sector participants in the provision of basic services, and to permit
competitive new entry in the provision of non-basic services; (b) in 1991, PERUMTEL was
transformed from a state-owned public corporation into a limited liability company and
implemented a program of commercialization and performance improvements; (c) in 1993, a
decree was issued specifying the different modes of cooperation, joint ventures or joint operation
arrangements that PT TELKOM and INDOSAT could make with the private sector for the
provision of basic services; d) in 1995, MTPT issued a Sector Policy Statement, elaborating
GOI's objectives and strategy for development and institutional improvements of the TC sector
in Indonesia, within the sixth Five-Year Plan (REPELITA VI); simultaneously, several related
decrees prescribed rules for tariffs for all basic services and for interconnection charges
(including Universal Service Obligation USO charges). The operational and ownership rules for
Joint Operating Schemes (JOS) between the public and private sector participation were also
established and resulted in several large-scale joint ventures for developing and operating the
basic networks and all types of TC services; and (e) in November 1995, PT TELKOM
completed an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of about 19 percent of its shares (owned by GOI)
which were floated in the U.S., European, Asian and Indonesian stock markets.
16.      All the above actions were based on the recommendations of the telecommunications
policy and management consultants engaged under the Third TC Project and were taken in
continued cooperation between GOI, PT TELKOM and the Bank. Simultaneously, PT
TELKOM improved its management, developmental and operational capabilities under a
twinning arrangement with an experienced operator and with the assistance of specialized
advisers. This enabled the public operator to take steps towards more commercial orientation
and to be prepared to compete with private sector operators whose participation in the sector was
gradually being introduced.  Thus, all the institutional development and management
improvement objectives of the Third Project were not only  achieved, but indeed, the
achievements went beyond the original targets with regard to the actual restructuring and reform
of the TC sector.
Network Expansion and Improvement of the Quality of Service
17       Construction Program. The project's physical development objectives were mostly
achieved and exceeded most of the original performance targets.  The status of the
implementation of major project components and of the Bank loan as originally allocated and
actually utilized are detailed in Part II, Appendix A (Attachments 3 and 4 to the Completion
Mission's Aide Memoire). Implementation of some items, such as the Outside Plant (OSP)
Systems for the construction of local networks for the telephone subscribers and inter-exchange
lines, and the related OSP Maintenance Centers (OPMC), experienced delays of about 15 and 30



6
months from implementation schedule at appraisal, respectively, due to difficulties in obtaining
right-of-way for cable routes and acquisition of sites for buildings. The OSP was a major
component of the project with planned funding of up to US$ 260 million. To remedy the
considerable difficulties in the OSP works which were previously realized through multiple
small contracts, PT TELKOM decided with Bank's initiative and support, to change its
approach, and reduce the number of separate contracts to four main packages of about 250,000
lines each. The Project Management Consultants (PMC) assisted in the preparation of the new
contracting schemes.  The selection of the contractors was in accordance with Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Implementation of this major item was satisfactory and the prices were
much lower than initially estimated. Some of the savings were used for additional inter-
exchange transmission replacement using new digital technology. Also, some items such as the
capacity utilization and the outside plant management systems were limited to field applications
and their implementation reduced or deferred to the Fourth Bank project or other separate
programs funded by TELKOM under its next program. This resulted in cancellation of about
US$ 49.0 million from the original loan amount. PT TELKOM was ably advised and assisted in
planning of its investment programs, and in implementation supervision of the Third Project by
the Project Management Consultant (PMC) and the twinning partner which were funded by the
loan.
18.      Key performance indicators for project implementation are given in Table 5 of Part II.
The objectives of expansion and modernization of the networks were fully met and even
exceeded in many aspects. As a whole, network expansion largely exceeded initial targets under
TELKOM's 1991-93 program which was assisted by the Third TC Project. In 1994, the number
of installed exchange lines and connected lines exceeded the planned capacities by about 15
percent. The average number of additional lines connected each year was almost 300,000 lines,
or an average yearly growth of about 28 percent compared to planned 17 percent. This pace of
development was maintained or increased from 1994 to 1996. At the end of 1996, exchange
capacities installed were about 6.3 million lines, or about 4.6 times the 1990 capacity, and
connected lines were about 4.2 million, or four times the 1990 lines. Simultaneously, obsolete
local and long distance systems were replaced with modern digital technology.  Further
description of the related project's physical components and their implementation and funding
from the third loan are given in Part II, Table 5 and Attachments 3 and 4 to Appendix A.
19.      Quality of Service and Staff Productivity. Before the project, the quality of TC
services was poor and inefficient due to equipment obsolescence and lack of facilities for both
efficient traffic routing and maintenance. Significant improvements in the quality of service
resulted from the expansion and modernization of the facilities under the program. Table 5 in
Part II gives data on the basic indicators of the quality of performance for the telephone network
and the improvements achieved during the project period. The 1990 average of 6.5 faults per
100 connected lines was improved to about 3 (45 percent) in 1993 and 1.6 (25 percent) in 1996.
The effective call completion rate for long distance dialed calls improved from 23 percent in
1990 to 43 percent in 1994 and 53 percent in 1996. This will further improve when the
Computerized Network Administration Systems (SISKA), provided in two cities under the Third
TC Project, is made operational in the seven main centers. Access to service was also
significantly increased in rural and large suburban areas through rural telecommunications
development. The service to non-subscribing general public was greatly improved through



7
provision of a large number of WARTELS (public call offices) throughout Indonesia, many
equipped with subscriber dialing of trunk calls and using card pay phones. With regard to staff
productivity, the number of employees per 1,000 connected lines (DELs) was 17 in 1994
(surpassing the original target of 20), and eight at the end of 1996 compared to 39 in 1990 at the
beginning of the project, and ranking TELKOM, internationally, as an efficient operator.
20.      Cost of the Project. As indicated in para. 17 and in the summary of project status in
Part II (Attachment 4 to Appendix A), the initial project composition was adjusted in 1994, on
completion of the detailed project planning, and some components were reduced in size or
deferred. The main items affected were for the following: (i) switching equipment, the
exchange line units (LU) capacity to be installed was reduced from initial 630,000 LU to 413,000
LU to obtain price reduction, following the introduction of new suppliers for switching
equipment; (ii) the outside plant (OSP) target of about 1.1 million pairs was reduced to about
0.93 million pairs in the four packages which were awarded; and (iii) cancellation of sub-
projects for capacity utilization equipment and for the UNDP funded training center, which were
transferred to the Fourth TC Project and to another TELKOM's project organization,
respectively. Also, some smaller items were increased; the number of OSP maintenance centers
were equipped at twelve locations compared to six planned. The competitive bidding procedure
for switching equipment, and the ICB procedure for Bank financed items resulted in costs less
than estimated at appraisal, for example, reductions by about 3 percent in the average per line
cost for switching equipment, and by about 20 percent in the average OPS cost per pair.
Reduction in the size of physical component and reduced unit costs resulted in savings which
were cancelled (para. 17).
21.      Table 8A in Part II details the costs of the main project components, as appraised and
as actually implemented under the adjusted program. The cost of the project was estimated to be
US$ 1,150.5 million at appraisal for a proposed installation of 630,000 lines units. The actual
cost of the 443,000 lines units and associated networks and facilities which were installed from
1991 to 1996 was US$ 744 million. Given the adjustments which have occurred, a detailed cost
comparison of each project component would not be significant. However, a comparison of the
average cost per one line installed as at appraisal and as implemented, which were US$ 1830 and
US$ 1680 per line, respectively, indicates that actual construction costs were only about 90
percent of those estimated in 1990. This is in line with the worldwide trend toward reduction in
price of telecommunications equipment, due to technological developments and economies of
scale in production at project time.
22.      Procurement. PT TELKOM's performance on procurement under the project was
satisfactory. The satisfactory implementation performance and the effective procurement process
from planning to purchase and completion of its physical components are largely attributable to
the setting up of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within PERUMTEL/ PT TELKOM. The
PIU, which functioned efficiently, was appropriately staffed and assisted by consultants for
Program Management and Construction Supervision and a twinning arrangement with an
experienced operator. Though slightly late planning at project inception and some sub-project
adjustments resulted in initial delay for certain items, no particular difficulties or delays were
encountered in the tendering/awarding process, or in disbursements against applications for
withdrawals or payments, or in calls on the special account of the loan. In total, 66 contracts



8
were signed by PT TELKOM with international/national contractors, suppliers, consultants and
training institutions. Contracts awarded through international or local competitive bidding
comprised 36 contracts for items partly funded from Bank loan, 12 contracts for projects partly
funded by OECF and two contracts for projects partly funded by KFW; and 16 contracts for
projects totally funded by GOI and PT TELKOM's internal funds. The total value of these
contracts was US$ 743.9 million equivalent, the total project cost (Table 8A, in Part II).
23.      Disbursements. The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements from the loan
proceeds during the 1991-96 project implementation period are detailed in Part II, Table 4.
Delays in disbursements during the early project implementation period were due to the
additional time required for planning of the large local networks packages and to protracted
procedures in obtaining right of way for cable route from local authorities. Project components
were subsequently revised (para. 17) and GOI and TELKOM actually utilized US$ 301.1 million
of the original loan amount of US$ 350 million.
24       Financial Performance. TELKOM'S financial performance from 1990 to 1996 was
very good and all financial covenants agreed with the Bank under the loan and project
agreements were met satisfactorily (Part II, Table 5, Financial). During the project period,
before tax, rate of return on net fixed assets increased from nine percent to 16 percent (77 percent)
leading to the conclusion that PT TELKOM had successfully improved the efficiency of its fixed
asset to generate revenues more effectively. Also, as a result of an increase in the growth of cash
generation relative to that of capital expenditure, net Internal Cash Generation as a percent of
average two-year investment dramatically increased by 4.5 times from 14 percent in 1990 to 63
percent in 1996. This demonstrated that PT TELKOM had successfully upgraded the quality of
service and human resources, both conducive to increased net internal cash generation. Although
PT TELKOM debt service increased resulting from an increase in its borrowing, debt service
coverage during the project period remained satisfactory and was close to the projection at
appraisal.
25.      Tariffs. The satisfactory financial performance was supported by appropriate tariffs
measures taken by GOI and PT TELKOM during the project period. Although the level of
PERUMTEL/TELKOM's tariffs were higher than average for developing countries at appraisal,
it was noted that the tariff structure was not related to economic costs. Adjustments were needed
to enable continued compliance with the loan financial covenants on cash generation and debt
service coverage. The earlier TA project included staff training on tariffs matters and in 1994,
under the Third Project, external consultants reviewed TELKOM's tariffs. At the end of 1994,
MTPT revised tariffs for all basic telecommunications services on the basis of the consultants
findings and recommendations. A year later, tariffs were further revised and moved towards
economic costs of the services under a Price Cap Tariff Decree establishing a tariff review
mechanism by reference to Indonesia's Consumer Price Index (CPI). This should enable
TELKOM to both maintain its good financial performance in the future and remain competitive
as the liberalization of the sector evolves.
26.      Under the Third Project, PT TELKOM took several internal actions to improve its
accounting policies and financial management by enhancing coordination between its
Headquarters divisions and regional offices in preparing budget, monitoring the process of its



9
implementation and analyzing the results. Fully-computerized accounting systems replacing the
cash-based manual accounting systems were introduced to significantly improve the timeliness
and accuracy of financial data. The project's technical assistance component assisted TELKOM
to upgrade the skills of the Finance Department, enhance management's capacity to use financial
data in the management of its operations, and develop a program for raising funds and managing
cash. As a result of these actions, financial management and organization necessary for carrying
out new policies and systems are being implemented with special emphasis on cost accounting
management and treasury functions.
27.      Audit. During appraisal of the Project, some auditing issues were raised. One was
related to irregularities in its procurement and price overruns in contracts and the other was
related to delays in preparing its corporate accounts and financial statement. During the Third
Project, PT TELKOM management reviewed the most outstanding procurement contracts
resulting in resolving almost all of the problems arising out of procurement irregularities and
overpricing of supply contracts. Also, PT TELKOM agreed that unaudited and audited corporate
accounts and financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within four months, and eight
months from end fiscal year, respectively. During TELKOM's preparation for IPO in 1995, its
1992, 1993 and 1994 corporate accounts and financial statements were reviewed by an
international public accounting firm. Since then, the accounts for 1995 and 1996 corporate
accounts and financial statement have been audited by the firm to be qualified under international
standards. Now, its audited corporate accounts are available within four months from the end of
the fiscal year.
28.      Return on Investment.. As indicated in Part II, Table 9. the overall real term financial
and economic rates of return of the Third Project were 18.42 percent (SAR: 12.6 percent) and
23.27 percent (SAR: 15.5 percent), thus far exceeding the projections at appraisal. Moreover, PT
TELKOM contributes substantially to GOI's treasury. The company is subject to corporate
taxation. In fiscal year 1994, for the first time, it became the largest corporate taxpayer in
Indonesia, with tax receipts amounting to Rupiahs 272 billion (US$ 126 million equivalent).
C.       Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
29.      Technological Progress. The project was implemented at a time when modern digital
technology for networks installations and operation were being rapidly developed and applied
internationally. Simultaneously, the costs of telecommunications equipment were falling,
particularly for large capacity installations and systems as those under the project. Proper
planning and procurement procedures enabled PT TELKOM to benefit from these important
external factors.  The project design, organization of procurement packages and the
implementation schedule were adequately adjusted, in particular through the redistribution of
some components between PT TELKOM's program under the Third and the Fourth TC projects
(para. 17) for more cost effective implementation, improving prospects for more efficient and
satisfactory future operation.



lo
30.      Capital Market Response to Public Offering of TELKOM's Shares. Though not
directly related to the project, it is noteworthy to mention that, in November 1995, TELKOM
placed an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of approximately 1.867 million shares comprising of
GOI's 933 million shares and the same number of newly-issued TELKOM shares. As a result,
GOI's ownership in TELKOM is now 80 percent. TELKOM received Rp 1.851 billion (US$
811 million equivalent) as IPO proceeds from the sale of the new shares. GOI agreed to use the
proceeds for TELKOM's investment expenditures and working capital requirements,
supplementing PT TELKOM's internal resources for its very large investment program. PT
TELKOM's IPO, however, encountered some difficulties, and had to be scaled back in volume
and price because the timing of TELKOM offering coincided with an unpredictable decline of
telecom stocks world-wide and a weakening in emerging markets associated with the problems
in Mexico. In response to the weak demand for TELKOM shares, the Government ordered local
pension funds to take up half of the domestic listing and to hold it for two years. It also reduced
the price offering and scaled back the international listing. These actions were very well
received and enhanced the credibility of the Government in the market and TELKOM shares
mounted an impressive rally, increasing by 70 percent.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
31.      The most significant aspect that needs emphasis is the steadfastness, perseverance
and consistency of GOI, during the 1990-1996 project period, in preparing and implementing a
phased approach toward both the strengthening of the organization and capabilities of the main
operator, PT TELKOM, and in parallel initiating and pursuing the restructuring and reform of
the whole TC sector in Indonesia. These phases were designed and undertaken in close
consultation and discussion with the Bank. to improve and strengthen the institutional, regu-
latory, and organizational framework of the sector, and gradually introduce a competitive
commercial environment for its operations and development, with increased private sector
participation, through joint ventures for basic services or independent corporations for new and
value added services. As a result, Indonesia telecommunications sector has been transformed
from a monopoly of two state-owned companies for domestic (TELKOM) and international
(INDOSAT) telephony, respectively, to a multi-private/public operator environment with
competition in essentially all segments of the market. Indonesia today has one of the most open
and competitive telecommunications market structures in Asia, (see Part II, Appendix A ) and
PT TELKOM has been split into seven regional operating companies, five of which are
managed by international operators with a majority private investor ownership.
Factors Generally Subject to TELKOM's Control
32.      PT TELKOM successfully managed the complex and intricate activities related to (i)
developing exceptionally large investment programs; (ii) Implementation of these programs by
connecting very large number of new subscribers and (iii) simultaneously establishing effective
operation and maintenance systems for the network, thus substantially improving the quality and
the efficiency of the services. All this is attributable to a large extent to the setting-up of a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which functioned efficiently and effectively in liaison with
the project planning and management department. Also, PT TELKOM employed consultants for
for implementation of each project component in liaison with the project planning and



11
management department. Also, PT TELKOM employed consultants, in particular for: (a) its
corporate planning process; (b) program/project management; (c) construction supervision; (d)
technical aspects of capacity utilization, and (e) computerized maintenance and operation of
local network systems (SISKA); and (e) twinning arrangements for all managerial, strategic,
operational, financial, commercial, human resources and training activities. All these tasks and
activities were satisfactorily performed and completed. GOI and TELKOM evaluated the
performance of consultants as satisfactory.
D.   Project Sustainability
33.      Project Benefits. All physical, operational and institutional objectives of the project
were achieved or exceeded. The project benefits are significant. These include: (a) a dramatic
increase in both coverage and quality of the telecommunications services and modernization of
the installations and their operation; (b) the introduction of a regulatory framework for the
sector; (c) preparation and imlementation of a comprehensive policy agenda in Indonesia's
telecommunications sector and restructuring of TELKOM. The policy dialogue and actions
instituted under the project have helped open the sector to private investors and the restructuring
of TELKOM has expanded the financial envelope for network expansion, lowered unit cost of
expansion and improved the quality of service. On balance, telecommunications tariffs have
declined by 35 percent in real terms since 1993, broad measures of efficiency indicate 50 percent
improvements over the past two years and public investment has declined from about US$ 1.5
billion in 1995 to nil by the end of 1996. The fast pace of telecommunications infrastructure
development and concomitant acquisition of expertise has put Indonesia into a position to initiate
construction of an information superhighway which eventually will connect the entire
archipelago. Taken together, these various elements of reform have led to the evolution of a
multi-operator environment with a substantially increased role for the private sector, and a more
competitive TELKOM.
34.      Project Sustainability.  The long-term sustainability of this project benefits are
assured through: (a) TELKOM's ability to effectively manage, operate and maintain its largely
expanded major network's expansion; and (b) the performance of the Joint Operation Schemes
(JOS) supported and established under the on-going TC projects. TELKOM's management has a
proven track record of continuous significant improvement in its performance over the last five
years. It is well equipped to handle future challenges, particularly now that TELKOM shares are
listed and traded on the New York and Jakarta stock exchanges, and it is subject to the stock
exchange disclosure requirements and the vigilance of institutional investors. This will enhance
the business orientation of TELKOM's management. In this regard, TELKOM has its own
vision - Vision T2001 - to launch itself into world class operator status by 2001. With respect to
the major JOS initiative, the sustainability of high performance is reinforced by the participation
of reputed international operators with requisite financing. Vesting responsibility for the
performance of the new and existing assets in five of the seven regions with these operators will
allow the streamnlining of business process and provide incentive for the new managers to
improve performance of existing as well as new assets. The comments in Section B and C
(paras. 14 to 32) above and Table 6 on Project future operation in Part II justify the project
sustainability.



12
E.    Bank Performance
35.      Overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory under the project. The closing of
this project marks the culmination of a ten-year cooperation with the Government of Indonesia in
developing telecommunications in Indonesia, by far the largest recipient of Bank lending in this
sector. As a result, many leading investment banks and consultant companies have offered their
services in telecommunications deregulation and privatization to the Government. Except for the
IPOs for TELKOM and INDOSAT, and the first awards of wireless licenses, the Government
requested Bank advice and assistance in all key aspects of reform, and accepted the strict rules
of governance that come with it.
36.      GOI and TELKOM, in the evaluation of their experience from the project, stressed
the extent of the harmonious and fruitful working relationship which the Bank maintained with
all concerned parties under the project. The resulting positive contributions to development
methodology and services management, and the catalystic effect and action with regard to
institutional changes and organizational strengthening of the sector were particularly recognized
and appreciated (Appendix B, in Part II).
F.    Borrower Performance
37.      The Borrower's and Beneficiary's performances were also highly satisfactory and
their relationship with the Bank were good and fruitful throughout the implementation of the
project. Drawing upon the best benefits from the technical assistance, consultancy and training
services financed under previous Bank operations and the third loan, GOI and TELKOM
managed efficiently the complex and challenging tasks of both initiating important institutional
restructuring of the sector and successfully planning/implementing its rapid development. PT
TELKOM also took advantage of the new evolving digital technology and new effective
constructional and operational practices. Also, the partial opening of PT TELKOM's ownership
to the international capital market provided additional resources for ongoing and future
development. An assessment of the project results prepared by the Borrower is included in Part
II (Appendix B) of this report.
38.      Compliance with Loan and Project Agreements.  GOI (the Borrower) is in
compliance with all loan covenants; and PT TELKOM, the main beneficiary, is in compliance
with all project agreement covenants. The status of compliance to legal covenants is detailed in
Table 10 of Part II.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
39.      The project outcome is highly satisfactory. The project achieved all its institutional,
organizational, and most of its physical/operational objectives and targets. Important steps were
taken toward sector reform and institutional improvements. PT TELKOM has met or exceeded
even before project completion, many of the original performance targets. At the end of 1996,



13
PT TELKOM's installed exchange I ines capacity had reached 6.4 million lines, of which about
4.2 million were in service, compared to 1.38 and 1.1 million, respectively, in 1990 at project
inception. Such very high growth rates (second only to China among comparable countries) and
rate of improvements in service quality will continue under the on-going Bank financed Fourth
and Sector Modernization Projects.  This resulted in rapid sector growth, improvement in
TELKOM's operation and continued evolution toward sector liberalization. Competition is
being further advanced under two follow-on Bank operations, based on the long term assistance
to the Indonesian TC sector reform and development, outlined in the Bank's 1989 Sector Study
and discussed during the Bank's Sector Study in 1990. A summary of the Project's assessments
is given in Table 1 of Part II.
H.   Future Operation
40.      The key operational and financial indicators for future operation during the period
1996 to 2001, are presented in Part I, Table 6. The 1996 data are actual at time of loan closing
based on 1996 audited report. Targets for 1997 to 1999 are from the SAR of the TSM project
which was appraised in late 1994 when the physical works from the third project were being
completed. These targets remain valid. The full utilization of the switching and outside plant
infrastructure from the Third Project was virtually achieved in 1995-96 when the annual growth
in connected lines reached levels exceeding 500,000 new lines. Table 6 shows that in order to
satisfy the still considerable pending demand throughout the country, higher annual growth rates,
ranging between 15 to 20 percent, will have to be maintained through the year 2000, and perhaps
beyond. The financial performance forecasts are also satisfactory. In the context of sustained
growth and utilization of PT TELKOM's networks, the satisfactory completion of the project's
institutional and physical components is a good basis for the sustained future operation. Future
participation of Bank in the telecommunications sector should focus on strengthening the
capabilities of the regulator to effectively manage an emerging multi-operator enviromnent. The
Government has requested Bank assistance in the above area and a regulatory oversight project is
planned for FY98.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
41.      Three important lessons were learned during the implementation of the project. First,
is active participation and commitment of all stakeholders not only during implementation but
also preparation are prerequisites for success in reforming of public utilities operating in
monopoly environment. From the very beginning, extensive and focused efforts made by the
Bank staff to involve senior government officials, senior staff of TELKOM and donors in an
interactive process of sector development, restructuring and commercialization based on Bank's
1989 Sector Report. The result was broad consensus among all parties on the principal elements
and the process of sector reforms and the specifics of implementation.
Second lesson, continuity of competent and committed personnel, with proper skill mix, at the
Borrower, Project Entity, and the Bank, and above all, decisive leadership by the Borrower are
critical to the creation of mutual trust and understanding for resolving the many sensitive issues



14
involved in sector reform of large public utilities. In the same vein, it proved to be of critical
importance that key staff in the Ministry and TELKOM had been trained under the previous TA
project and that agreement on strategy had been reached through joint efforts in preparing the
Sector Study.
Third, inclusion of policy conditionalities in loan agreements is not a pre-requisite to effective
Bank intervention on major policy issues or assurance that agreed policy reforms are undertaken.
In Indonesia, the approach successfully adopted by the Bank was: (a) formulating through early
consensus among all parties a coherent strategic agenda for the sector and ensuring that local
officials assumed intellectual ownership; (b) an explicit commitment by the Bank to a long-term
strategy of assistance to the sector spanning several operations with combined objectives of
institutional development and investments for physical development.



is
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:            Summary of Assessment
Table 2:            Related Bank Loan/Credits
Table 3:            Project Timetable
Table 4:            Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:            Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:            Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:            Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:           Project Costs
Table 8B:           Project financing
Table 9:            Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:           Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:           Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:           Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A:     Mission's Aide Memoire
B:     Borrower contribution to the ICR
C:     Map (IBRD No. 22076)



16
Table I: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives           Substantial    Partial    Negligible     Not applicabl
Macroeconomic policies                 0             0         0                  0
Sector policies                        0             0         0                  0
Financial objectives                   0             0 O0                         0
Institutional developments             0             0         0                  0
Physical objectives                    0             O         0                  0
Poverty reduction                      0             O         0                  0
Gender concerns                        0             0         0                  0
Other social objectives                0             0      00
Environment objectives                 0             0         0                  0
Public sector management               0             O         0                  0
Private sector development             0             0         0                  E
Other (specify)                        0             0         0                  E0
B. Project sustainability              Lilcey         Unlikely       Uncertain
(/)                                 (/)                          (/)
0      0               ~~~0
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactorv     Satisfactory    Deficient
(1')             (1)              (1)
Identification                     0l0                                0
Preparation assistance             0                O                 0
Appraisal                          El               0                 0
Supervision                        0l               O                 0
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory     Satisfactorv    Deficient
(/)             (/)            (/)
Preparation                           0A               0              E
Implementation                         0               0              0
Covenant compliance                    0               0              0
Operation (if applicable)              0               0              0
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactQry    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
0(1             (0)
0               0 O                               0 



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of    Loan Amount
Title                   Purpose              Approval       (US$m)                       Status
(A) Credit 210-IND      (I) Transfer telecommunications   1970          12.8       Satisfactorily completed in 1976,
First Telecom Project  operations from a government            (0.17 canceled)  but except for the part of the
department to a separate                                 institutional component.
operating entity, (II) assist                            (PPAR/PCR No. 1646 of 6/22177)
PERUMTEL in its organization
and operation and (Ill)
rehabilitate and expand
networks.
(B) Loan 2757-IND        (I) Improve PERUMTEL systems     1986          14.5       Satisfactorily completed in 1990.
Telecoms Technical   and procedures for planning,              (0.1 canceled at (PPAR/PCR No. 10247 of 12/27/91)
Assistance Project    procurement, project                       at closing)
(Telecom II)        implementation and supervision,
(II) restructure its Development
Directorate and (III) on-the-job
training of its staff.
(C) Telecom Sector Study  Identify key telecom policy and                          Made by Bank staff in 1989.
development issues                                        Final Report No. 7842-IND dated
June 25, 1990.
(D) Third Telecom Project Expand the networks and         1990          350        Completed. The subject of this ICR.
strengthen/improve sector
(Loan 3182-IND)     institution, management
and operations
(E) Loan 3482-IND       (i) Improve sector performance    1992          375        All development objectives and
Telecom IV Project    by promoting a regulatory regime                         performance targets are being
conducive to competition and (ii)                         met or surpassed. TA has
meet the growing demand for                               been used to prepare far-
telecommunication services in                             reaching sector reform and
Java, Bali, Nusa Tenggarra,                               private sector entry in a
Kalimantan and Sulawesi.                                  competitive multi-operator
environment.



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
Title                   Purpose               Year of Approval      Loan Amount                    Status
(US$M)
(F) Loan 3904-IND     The project supports the GOI's          1995                  325          TELKOM committed USS 173.0
Telecom Sector   telecommunications sector                                                   million and expects to disburse
Modernization    reform program which is based                                               USS 17.0 million by June 1997.
(TSM) Project.    on three key elements: entry of                                            KSO, IPO, cellular now completed
world-class operators, competition                                          or being continued. Actions are
in all segments of the sector and                                          underway to commit the remaining
reorganization of the established                                          USS 135.0 million.
public service provider.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned              Date/ActuaULatest Estimate
Identification                              FY 1988                           FY 1988
Preparation/Appraisal                    September 1989                       FY 1989
Executive Project Summary                    FY 1990                     November 17, 1989
Appraisal                                    FY1990                           FY 1990
Negotiations                              February 1990                    February 1990
Board Presentation/Approval              March 27, 1990                    March 27, 1990
Signing                                   April 30, 1990                   April 30, 1990
Effectiveness                            October 5, 1990                  October 5, 1990
Project Completion                       December 1996                     December 1996
Loan Closing                            December 31, 1996                December 31, 1996



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$M)
FY90          FY91          FY92          FY93          FY94          FY95           FY96             FY97
Appraisal Estimate          0.00          10.90       125.10        259.70        341.20        350.00           350.00          350.00
Revised (/a)                                                                                                     312.50          312.50
Actual                      0.00           6.10        63.80        139.80        232.10        260.60           289.88          301.10
Actual as % of                            56%           51%           54%           68%           74%              93%             96%
Appraisal
Estimate/Revised
Estimate
Date of Last                                                                                                                  May 1997
Disb.(/b)
(Notes)
(/a) US$ 27.50 million and US$ 10.00 million were canceled from the initial loan amount of US$ 350.00 million in April 1995
and in November 1995, respectively.
(/b) The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, but the final disbursement was made on May 6, 1997, when the US$ 11.4 million undisbursed balance of the loan
was cancelled. This was due, in part, to the implementation delay, or reduction in size, of the following project's items: (i) Telecom Il OSP; and (ii)
SISKA/IBRD (start-up of Phase I).



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1990           1991             1992           1993            1994                1995                  1996
SAR   Actual SAR    Actual  SAR   Actual SAR    Actual Target \a. Actual   Target \b. Actual \c.  Target \b. Actual \c.
Network
Exchange capacity ('000)        1,217   1,375   1,433    1,714    1,788  2,093   2,148   2,915   3,015   3,426     5,064      4,824         6,033   6,344
Line Service ('000)             994    1,036   1,144    1,276    1,314  1,549   1,529   1,845   2,259    2,526     3,505      3,290         4,012   4,186
Public Payphone                 3,000   13,518  7,000    30,251   10,000 46,002  15,000  58,001  75,000    68,734    125,000    90,700     135,000   106,613
Quality of Service
Faults /100 lines / year        6.5    6.2    6.5       5.1      5.5    5.0    5.0    2.7       5.8       1.9      2.0        1.6         1.5        1.6
Faults cleared in less than 2 days (%) 70%    70%    73%  73%    76%    79%    80%    79%    80%         78%       81%        80%        82%         81%
Call completion rate STD (percent)  30%    23%    32%   25%      35%    26%    38%    36%    35%         43%       39%        48%        50%         53%
Staffing
Total Staff ('000)              40.10  39.46  44.10    39.52    48.50  39.30   53.10   39.05   47.44     42.17     43.80      37.58      42.60       37.64
Staffper 1000 lines service     40      39     39       32       37     26      35     22      21         17       13         12          12         9
Financial
Before tax rate of return on    17%    9%       18%     21%      16%    11%    16%    22%    28%          17%      20%        14%        36%         16%
net fixed assets (percent)
Change in cash operating costs  -4%    36%    -5%       -2%     -6%    57%    -6%       19%    NA        27%       NA         46%        NA          -40%
per average main line (real percent)
Change in maintainance costs    1,%    -5%      1%      -2%      0%     190%   0%      29%    NA         28%       NA         26%        NA          -16%
per average main line (real percent)
Net Internal Cash Generation as  30%    14%    33%      35%      38%    35%    42%    54%    42%         66%       54%        61%        95%        63%
percent of average 2-yr. invest. (%)
Debt Service Coverage           1.7    2.4    2.1       2.4      2.4    2.5    3.0     33      33        3.4       4.7 3K7               3.4        4.3
\a   As per the SAR of the Telecommunications IV Project.
\b   As per the SAR of the Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project.
\c   Revised based on Audited Report.



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Fiscal year ending December 31         1996 /a.    1997 /b.    1998 /b.   1999 /b.  2000 /c.  2001 /c.
Exchange capacity ('000)
Total TELKOM Capacity                           3,587       4,214        4,714    5,214     5,800      6,180
Total capacity (JOS)                            2,757       3,122        4,020    4,020    4,400       4,120
Total exchange capacity                           6,344       7,336       8,734    9,234    10,200     10,300
Additional connected lines ('000)
TELKOM                                            810        625          700       700       700       700
JOS                                               531        250         1,000      650       700       700
Connected main lines (CML)
TELKOM                                          2,228       2,783        3,483    4,183     4,900      5,500
JOS                                             1,824       1,957        2,957    3,607    4,000       4,500
Other services ('000)
Payphone                                          107         155         186       219       300       375
Wartel                                             28          15          19        24        25        25
Total connected lines                             4,186       4,909       6,645     8,033     9,255    10,400
Quality of services
Number of faults per 100 subs per month            1.55        1.00         1.00     0.50      0.40      0.30
Successful call completion rate (average)
Local                                            58%         80%          90%      90%       90%        90%
National long distance                           53%         75%          80%      80%       80%        80%
Staff productivity
TELKOM: Employees per 1000 CML                      9          10            8        7         6        4.5
Revenues (TELKOM managed network) /d.
Telephone revenues/average main line current    1,344       1,636        1,450    1,299     1,200      1,200
Costs /d.
Cash operating cost/average main line current     743         684         638       618       610       600
Staff cost/average main line current              383        335          306       298      295        290
Financial indicators /d.
EBITDA/Revenue (TELKOM)                          70%         62%          61%      59%       60%        60%
EBIT/average net fixed asset in operations       17%         31%          36%      38%       40%        40%
Rate of return on equity                         19%         22%          24%      23%       23%        23%
Net ICG/average 2 year investments               63%         88%          95%      95%       95%        95%
Debt service coverage                            4.30        4.20         3.40     3.40      3.40       3.40
Current ratio                                    1.10        1.00         1.10      1.00     1.00       1.00
Debt/(debt + equity)                             33%         48%          42%      37%       37%        37%
(Notes) /a. Figures of 1996 are actual based on 1996 Audited Report.
/b. Figures from 1997 to 1999 are quoted from the SAR of the Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project.
/c Figures of projection beyond year 2000 are WB ICR estimates.
/d No inflation factors being assumed from 1997 on.



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
NO.                   STUDY                          STATUS                      IMPACT OF STUDY
A    W.B. Loan funded Studies, Technical
Assistance, and Training:
I   Review of Sector Policy (MTPT)             Completed           PERUMTEL was organized as P.T. TELKOM on
1991-92            September 24, 1991. Sector Policy was determined
in 1995 and important regulatory/sector reform
initiatives implemented from 1993 on.
2.   Telecommunication Regulatory and          Completed 1991-92
Analytical capabilities of DGPT.
Completed 1991-92
Corporate Planning Process
3.   English Course for MTPT's staff             Completed 1991    Capabilities Improvement of staff.
4.   Corporate Planning Process & Training       Completed 1991    Ditto
5.   International Telecommunications Seminar    Completed 1991    Knowledge improvement of MTPT, TELKOM and
other related institutional personnels.
6.   Workshop:                                     Completed       Input for MTPT, DGPT and TELKOM with foreign
and domestic participants.
- Restructuring Policy                           1992
- Telecommunication Sector
- Corporate Planning and Business Strategy
7.   Telecommunication Courses                  Completed 1992/93   Capabilities Improvement of MTPT's staff (140 staff
trained)
8.   Comparative Study Telecommunication         Completed 1992                        - ditto -
Service in Australia
9.   Student Services in Master Program at       Completed 1993                         -ditto-
University and College in Australia
10.  Telecommunication Management Group         Completed 1993/95                      - ditto -
Training
11.  Comparative Study of Cellular               Completed 1995                Input for Tariff Regulation
Telecommunications in Japan, Sweden, U.K.
and U.S.A.



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Study                              Status                      Impact of Study
(Purpose as defined at Appraisal )
12  Capacity utilization program                Completed 1993              Procurement of balancing equipment
for the network which improve SCR
and utilization of current capacity.
13  Improvement of TELKOM's implementation      Completed 1994              Performance indicators exceeded
operation and financial performance.                                    positively between 1990 and 1995.
TELKOM received "Unqualified
___________________________  opinion" statement from the Auditor.
14  Project Management Consultant.              Completed 1990 - 1995/6     Support the accelerating of
administration and financial
management process and project
reporting.
15  MBA, MSC and other Training Program for     Completed 1991-1995         Positive changing of percentage
TELKOM staffs both in domestic and in abroad                            composition of TELKOM personnel.
University and College.                                                 133 staffs were trained.
16  ICB Bidding procedure and Contract          Completed 1991-1996         Efficiency of Investment cost and
implementation system.                                                  continuously put into practice the
procurement implementation.
17  Computerized Network Management System.     On-going up to end of 97    Implementation of SISKA
(Computerized Networks
Administration System) focused in two
cities Jakarta and Surabaya.
B   Covenanted Studies and Tech. Assistance
Otherwise Funded:
I   ICB Bidding procedure and Contract          Completed 1995-1996/7       -ditto- No.16 above.
implementation system.
2   Project Management Consultant.              Completed 1996               -ditto- No. 14 above.
3   Improvement of Operation and Maintenance    Completed 1995               Implementation of OPMC (Outside
system and facilities modernization.                                    Plant Maintenance Center) in seven big
cities and OMC (Operation Main-
tenance Center) in the Switching
system operation.



25
Table 8A: Project Costs /a.
(US$ Million) /b
Project Description                   Local           Foreign              Total
SWITCHING
Appraisal Estimates                            153.10           170.40               323.50
Actual Contracted                              83.39            119.20               202.59
OSP
Appraisal Estimates                           353.50            258.00               611.50
Actual Contracted                              152.08           252.65               404.73
TEL III (include. SISKA                59.05           252.65               311.70
Phase I)
Tahap-3                                93.03             0.00                93.00
SISKA Phase 11
Appraisal Estimates                             4.10             34.20                38.30
Actual                                          3.31             35.24                38.55
OPMC & KANDATEL BUILDING
Appraisal Estimates                             10.70            30.00                40.70
Actual                                           5.02            42.63                47.65
Capacity Utilization
Appraisal Estimates                             12.30            11.90                24.20
Actual                                          0.11              1.17                  1.28
Technical Assistance & Training
Appraisal Estimates                             19.10            39.10                58.20
Actual                                          15.48            27.79                43.27
Training Equipment
Appraisal Estimates                             9.80              7.10                16.90
Actual                                           0.30             5.74                 6.04
Sub Total (Appraisal Estimate)                         562.80            550.70              1,113.50
Sub Total (Actual)                                     259.42            484.42               743.84
Interest during Construction
Appraisal Estimates                              0.00            37.20                37.20
Actual
VAT and Other Taxes (Actual)
Grand Total
Appraisal Estimates                           562.80            587.70              1,150.50
Actual                                        259.42            484.42               743.84
Balance (Appraisal Estimate - Actual)         303.38            103.28               406.66
Balance/Appraisal Estimates (%) /c.            (53.9)            (17.6)               (35.3)
/a. Includes contingencies, at appraisal. TELKOM is exempted from duties and taxes on imported items.
Local costs and other taxes which were estimated to have been about US$ 68.8 million equivalent (at
appraisal), and US$ 60 million actual at project completion.
/b. Exchange rates used were US$ l=Rp. 1,770 at appraisal, and Rp. 2,200 at project completion.
/c. Percent increase (or decrease) of actuals over appraisal estimates.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Total Project Cost                                 Funding Sources (US$ Million)
Rp. Billion   US$ Million   IBRD        KFW         OECF         UNDP                TELKOM Internal
Investment    Interest      Total
Local     Appraisal        996.20      562.80                                                        562.80                     562.80
Actual           544.79      259.42                                                        259.42                     259.42
Foreign    Appraisal      1,043.30     587.70       350.00      169.60        28.90        2.00      548.50        37.20         37.20
Actual         1,017.29      484.42      299.90       119.20       42.63         0.00      484.42       132.04        616.46
Total     Appraisal      2,039.50     1,150.50      350.00      169.60        28.90        0.00     1,111.30       37.20        600.00
Actual         1,562.08      748.60      301.10       119.20       42.63         0.00      743.85       130.84        874.69
(Notes)
(1)  IBRD: USS 350 million, Loan No. 3182-IND, April 30, 1990. USS 37.5 million of the loan were cancelled in 1995.
Further USS 11.4 million were cancelled at final disbursement on May 6, 1997.
(2)  KFW: DM 211.5 million (KFW LA: DM 186.97 million, GOI SLA: DM 24.53 million), Loans F-1789 and F-1812, Sept. 24, 1990.
(3)  OECF: Yen 6,537 million, Loan No. IP-357, December 14, 1990.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp. Billion)
Input Table
________           TELKOM Total                _
Year    LIS        Op.      Op. Expenses      Op.            Op.         LIS       Op.     Op. Expenses Depreciatio        Investment
Revenues        I        Revenues/LIS   Expenses/LIS           Revenues        *)          n
(a)       (b)          (c)        (d)=(b)/(a)    (e)=(c)/(a)    (f)   (g)=-(d)x(f)   (h)=(e)x(f)   (i)       (i)           (k)
1990  1,033,170      1,408          737         0.0014        0.00071
1991  1,271,274      1,892          904         0.0015        0.00071                                                (436.74)        (436.74)
1992  1,542,595      2,426        1,154         0.0016        0.00075  226,466    356.1578    (169.4172)     29.12   (198.77)         (47.67)
1993  1,856,605      3,072        1,376         0.0017        0.00074  270,579    447.7088    (200.5362)    42.37   (188.55)            14.13
1994  2,452,095      4,044        1,748         0.0016        0.00071  326,625    538.6710    (232.8380)     61.49   (493.04)        (235.91)
1995  3,298,854      5,105        2,544         0.0015        0.00077  332,250    514.1592    (256.2235)    101.26     (1.27)          250.16
1996  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  354,400    429.9713    (128.5935)    101.46        0            281.99
1997  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  363,260    429.9713    (128.5935)    101.46        0            281.99
1998  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  376,550    429.9713    (128.5935)    101.46        0            281.99
1999  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  389,840    429.9713    (128.5935)     88.53        0            272.94
2000  4,186.320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  403,130    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.18         0           265.69
2001  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2002  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2003  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2004  4,186,320      5,079         1.519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2005  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2006  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     78.01         0           265.57
2007  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     48.89         0           245.19
2008  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     35.64        0            235.91
2009  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)     35.64        0            235.91
2010  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)      6.22        0            215.32
2011  4,186,320      5,079         1,519        0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)      6.19        0            215.30
2012  4,186,320      5,079        1,519         0.0012        0.00036  420,850    429.9713    (128.5935)      6.19        0            215.30
*) Depreciation is excluded.
(Assumptions for Calculation)
1. LIS (Lines in Service), Op. Revenues and Op. Expenses of TELKOM Total quoted from Audited Annual Report 1990-1996. (VAT is excluded.)
2. LIS in Protel III calculated by the ratio of actual line utilization.
3. Depreciation in Protel III based on actual.
4. Investment in Protel III based on actual.
5. Net Benefit (Nominal) in Protel III calculated as follows: (g)x(1-30%)+(h)x(1-30%)+(i)x(1-30%)+() [30%: Corproate Tax Rate]



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp. Billion)
Output Table
Protel III
Financial Return                                   Economic Return
Year   Net Benefit  Inflator  Net Benefit (Real)    VAT       VAT (w/       Net Benefit    Net Benefit (Real)
(Nominal)                                            Inflator)     (Nominal)
-____       (k)         (I)  (m)=(k)x(l) compound    (n)          o          (p)=(k)+(n)       (q)=(m)+(o)
1990
1991       (436.74)                  (631.4716)                                  (436.74)          (631.47)
1992        (47.67)   4.94%           (65.6780)      35.62       49.07            (12.05)           (16.61)
1993          14.13   9.77%             17.7357      44.77        56.20             58.90             73.93
1994       (235.91)   9.20%           (271.1647)     53.87       61.92           (182.04)          (209.25)
1995         250.16    8.00%           266.2471      51.42        54.72            301.58            320.97
1996         281.99   6.43%            281.9860      43.00       43.00             324.98            324.98
1997         281.99                    281.9860      43.00       43.00             324.98            324.98
1998         281.99                    281.9860      43.00       43.00             324.98            324.98
1999         272.94                    272.9356      43.00       43.00             315.93            315.93
2000         265.69                    265.6932      43.00        43.00            308.69            308.69
2001         265.57                    265.5722      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2002         265.57                    265.5722      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2003         265.57                    265.5722      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2004         265.57                    265.5704      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2005         265.57                    265.5704      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2006         265.57                    265.5704      43.00        43.00            308.57            308.57
2007         245.19                    245.1894      43.00        43.00            288.19            288.19
2008         235.91                    235.9136      43.00        43.00            278.91            278.91
2009         235.91                    235.9136      43.00        43.00            278.91            278.91
2010         215.32                    215.3193      43.00        43.00            258.32            258.32
2011         215.30                    215.3002      43.00        43.00            258.30            258.30
2012         215.30                    215.3002      43.00        43.00            258.30            258.30
(FRR)         23.49%                      18.42%               (ERR)                29.09%            23.27%
(SAR: 12.6%)                                               (SAR: 15.5%)
(Notes)
1. Real net benefit calculated as of 1996 by inflating the figures of previous years.
2 ERR calculated by adjusting VAT to FRR as did in the SAR.



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement              Covenant  IBRD    Original  Revised            Description of Covenant
Text Reference:        Class(s)   Status    Fulfill    Fulfill
Loan No. 31820                               Data       Data                                            Comments
2.01 P (A)                05         C                           Enter into twinning partner agreement  In compliance.
by October 31, 1990.
2.01P (A)                 05         C                           Take actions on (1) accounting and  In complaince.
financial management; (2) operations;
(3) idle capacity utilization; (4) human
resource development; (5) training to
improve performance of Perumtel.
2.01 P (A)*               10         C                           Maintain Project Implementation Unit.  In compliance.
2.01P (A)*                13         C                           Furnish to the Bank consultants' report  In compliance.
by Dec. 31, 1993.
2.01P (A)**               02         C                           Take action to improve overall      In compliance.
receivable collection.
2.01P (A)**               10         C                           Prepare financial and physical      In compliance.
performance targets for the agreed
indicators for FY1990-91, for FY92
by November 15, 1990. For FY93 by
November 15, 1991.
Loan No. IBRD 31820
3.01                      05         C                           1. Prepare and furnish the Bank     In compliance
timetiables for (1) establishing a legal
framework for private sector
participation and (2) the strengthening
of telecommunications regulatory
capacity of MTPT.
11. Review and if necessary, adjust
PERUMTEL's tariff annually.
4.01 (A)(1)               10         C                           Obtain OECF or other cofinancing for  In compliance.
OPMC by January 31, 1991.
4.01 (A)(l)               10         C                           Enter into UNDP grant agreement for   In compliance.
technical assistance by Jan. 31, 1991
4.01(A)(11)               01         C                           Submit (A) audited financial reports    In compliance.
within nine months after the end of
fiscal year; (B) unaudited report
within four months after the end of
fiscal year.
4.02P                     02         C                           Ensure that projected net revenue be at
least 1.5 times the projected debt
service requirement for each fiscal yr.



30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Covenant  Status  Original  Revised           Description of Covenant
Class(s)            Fulfill    Fulfill
Data      Data                                           Comments
Text Reference:
4.03P (A)                   02        C                          Ensure that PERUMTEL internally
generate more than 30% of the
average capital expenditure for that
year and next year.
4.03P (B)                   02        C                          Furnish to the Bank a copy of the  In compliance.
review on financial covenants
compliance by Nov. 15 each year.
6.01 (A)                    10        C                          Enter subsidiary loan agreement    In compliance.
between GOI and Perumtel.
6.01 (b)                    10        C                          Enter into cofinancing agreement   In compliance.
with KFW.
Agreement: PROJEC
Ref.: Ln.31820-IND
2.01 P (A)                  05        C                          Furnish to the Bank, Perumtel's (I)    In compliance.
institutional development plans; and
(11) investment plans for following
fiscal year by Nov. 15 every year.
2.01P (A)                   05        C                          Furnish to the Bank Perumtel's (I)
Management Training plan; (11)
technical assistance and counterpart
training program for following fiscal
year by October 31.
Status: C - Complied with; CD - Compliance after delay; NC - Not complied with
SOON - Compliance expected in reasonably short time.
NYD    -    Not yet due.
Covenant Class:    I    Accounts/audit
2    Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3    Flow and utilization of project funds.
4    Counterpart funding
5    Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6    Environmental covenants
7    Involuntary resettlement
8    Indigenous people
9    Monitoring, review and reporting
10    Implementation
11    Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12    Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary/institutional action
13    Other



3]
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or
OP/BP) was observed under the project. Provisional unsatisfactory practices, in particular in the procurement
process, were adequately adjusted or corrected during supervision.
Statement Number and Title                     Describe and comment on the lack of compliance
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Planned                        Actual /b
Stage of Project Cycle   Staff Weeks a/    USS /I.      Staff Weeks        US$ /c.
Through Appraisal                     60         142,200             62          177,940
Appraisal-Board                      20          165,900             70          200,900
Board-effectiveness                  20           47,400             20           57,400
Supervision /d.                      130         308,100            138          396,060
Completion                            30          71,100             30           85,100
TOTAL                               310          734,700            320          918,400
/a. Estimated at FY90 (appraisal time) average staff-week cost of US$ 2,370.
/b. Actual at project completion/loan closing, end of December 1996, on the basis of available
project supervision Form 590.
/c. At FY 96 (project completion time) average staff-week cost of US$ 2,870.
/d. Supervision for the Telecom 111 project was part of missions, which included
supervision, preparation or appraisal of other telecommunications projects
in Indonesia (Telecom II, IV, and TSM, see Tables 2 and 13).



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project Cycle          Month/        No. of      Days               Specialized               Performance   Rating /b                 Types of Problems
Year       Persons         in               Staff Skills               Implement-  Develop-
Field           Represented /a                     tation/  ment
Overall  impact
Status
Through appraisal
- Sector review/identification /c   Sept. 88     4           15     Eng.2; Fin A; Eco., Pol.
- Preparation I /c             Dec. 88           5          25      Eng.2; Fin A2
- Preparation 2 /c             April 89          6           16     Eng.2, Fin A2, Eco., Mmgt.
- Appraisal                    Sept. 89          4          24      Eng.2, Fin A, Eco.
Appraisal through Board
Approval
Jan. 90           4          16      Eng 2, Fin A, Mmgt
- Final Appraisal /c           Feb. 90           6           -      Eng., Fin A, Eco, Leg.,Mmgt
- Negotiations                                                      Proc.
Mar. 90           -_
- Board approval               Apr. 90           --
- Loan Signing                 Aug. 90-                                                                                                Same day in finalizing the co-financing
- Review of effectiveness status   Oct. 90                                                                                             agreement with KFW.
- Loan effectiveness
Supervision/Completion
- Supervision I /d             May 90            5          17      Eng.2, Pol., Leg., Cons.                                           Stan-up of procurement under the third
- Supervision 2 /d             Oct. 90           2          22      Eng. 2                                                             project progress in tendering for outsi plant
- Supervision 3 /e             Feb. 91           2          26      Eng. 2                                                             (OSP) contracts.
- Supervision 4 /e             May 91            4          26      Eng.2, Fin A, Eco.
- Supervision 5 /f             Oct. 91           5          22      Eng.2, Fin A, Eco., Mmgt. Cons
- Supervision 6 /f             Dec. 91           3          17      Eng., Fin A, Eco.
- Supervision 7 /g             Jun/July 92       4          30      Eng, Eco., Fin A.2                                                 Redesigning local network components
to be grouped with items under Tel. IV.
- Supervision 8 /g             Nov/Dec92         4          22      Eng., Eco., Fin A.2
- Supervision 9 /g             Apr/May93         4          24      Eng., Eco., Fin A.2
- Supervision 10 /g            Oct/Nov93         3          19      Eng., Fin A., Eco.                                        S



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of Project Cycle         Month/    No. of    Days                Specialized            Performance  Rating /b               Types of Problems
Year      Persons       in            Staff Skills             Implemen-  Develop-
Field        Represented /a                  tation/  ment
Overall Status  impact
- Supervision 11 /h           Apr. 94         4          18    Eng., Eco., Fin A.2                HS              S
- Supervision 12 /i           Nov/Dec.94      4          24     Eng., Eco., Fin A.2               HS              S
- Supervision 13 /j           Jul/Aug.95      2          17    Eng., Fin A.                       HS              S
- Supervision 14 /j           Feb. 95         4          17    Eng., Fin A., Edco., Po).           HS             S
- Supervision 15 /j           Oct. 96         4          18    Eng., Fin A., Eco., Mmgt.           HS             S
- Supervision 16/Completion /k  March 97      5          18    Eng. 2, Fin A.2, Pol. Spec.         HS             S
/a  Abbreviations: Eng., Engineer; FinA, Financial Analyst; Econ, Economist; Mmgt./Proct/Pol., Management/Procurement/Policy Specialist;
Leg., Lawyer; Cons., Consultant
/b  Keys to: overall performance rating (before FY94)  I problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems - implementation/development impact
status (from FY94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory; U = unsatisfactory; HU = highly unsatisfactory.
/c  Combined mission with progress review under the Telecommunications Sector Study supervision of the Technical Assistance Project (Tel. 11)
(Loan 2757-IND) and identification/preparation of the Third Project (Tel. Ill).
/d  Combined mission with finalization of sector study and completion of the TA Project (Tel. Il).
/e  Combined mission with identification/preparation of the proposed Fourth Telecommunications Project (Tel. IV).
/f Combined mission with final preparation/appraisal of Tel IV.
/g  Combined mission with start-up/supervision of the Fourth Telecom Project (Tel. IV, Ln. 3482-IND).
/h  Combined mission with supervision of Tel. IV and preparation of the proposed Telecom Sector Modernization Project (TSM).
/i  Combined mission with supervision of Tel. IV and appraisal of the TSM project.
/j  Combined mission with full supervision of Tel. IV and TSM projects (Ln. 3482-IND and Ln. 3904-IND).
/k Final Supervision/Completion mission for Tel. III (Ln. 3182-IND) combined with full supervision of Tel. IV and TSM projects.



34
INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182 - IND)
APPENDIX A
FINAL SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
(18 PAGES)
The Aide Memoire of the March 17 to April 10, 1997 World Bank mission to
Indonesia combined the Final Supervision/Completion Review of the Third Telecommunications
Project (Loan 31 82-IND) and the Supervision activities for the ongoing Fourth
Telecommunications Project (Loan 3582-IND) and Telecommunications Sector Modernization
(TSM) Project (Loan 3904-IND).
The Sections and Attachments of the Aide Memoire that were not relevant to the
Third Telecommunications project have been omitted.



35
INDONESIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
March 17 - April 10, 1997
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       A  World Bank Mission comprising Messrs. A. Shanmugarajah, Peter Smith,
Yoshihiko Kawamura, and Marcel Scoffier visited Indonesia from about March 17 to April 10,
1997 to (i) determine the final status of the Third Telecommunications Project - TELECOM III
(Loan 31 82-IND) and collect/discuss relevant data for preparing the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR); and (ii) supervise the Fourth Telecommunications Project (Loan 3482-IND), and
the Telecommunications Sector Modernization (TSM) Project (Loan 3904-IND).
2.       The mission wishes to thank the Secretary General of Tourism, Posts and
Telecommunications and his staff; Deputy for Economic Affairs (BAPPENAS) and his staff;
Director General (BUMN); Director General Posts and Telecommunications and his staff; and
President Director (TELKOM) and his staff; for all the courtesies and cooperation extended
during the mission.
3.       At the end of the mission, the team discussed its findings with officials of the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications, BAPPENAS and
TELKOM (see Note 1/).
Note 1/: The subsequent Sections II and III (paragraphs Nos. 4 to 43) have been omitted.



36
IV. BANK PROJECTS
Telecom III Project (Loan 3182-IND)
44.      Loan 3182-IND was closed on December 31, 1996. Of the US$ 350.0 million under
the loan, TELKOM canceled US$ 37.5 million, and committed US$ 301.1 million which will
be fully disbursed by April 30, 1997. Bank would disburse against withdrawal applications
received on or before April 30, 1997, for all works completed prior to December 31, 1996.
Remaining funds (US$ 10.5 million) as of April 30, 1997 will be canceled. Status of usage of
funds by category and estimate of disbursements are in Attachment 3. Project Status Summary,
performance indicators for project implementation (1991-1996) and a summary of the major
steps in the reform of the Indonesia Telecommunications sector and World Bank cooperation
during the project period are in Attachment 4. TELKOM provided the mission with a draft
project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) which was examined and discussed. Some
updating and additional information will be incorporated. As a whole, the project was
successfully implemented and met its physical and institutional development objectives. Project
implementation took place during a difficult transition period where sector growth increased
about eight fold and GOI was undertaking an in-depth sector reform towards its liberalization
and opening to private sector participation. The mission suggested that an Executive Summary
Evaluation be prepared by the Borrower and included as a Head Section to TELKOM's ICR
providing final opinion and appreciation of the Government and the beneficiaries on project
implementation, its outcome and expected benefits. This section would be attached to the final
ICR.
45.      Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be sent to the two implementing
agencies, MTPT and TELKOM, by May 15, 1997, for their comments and corrections, as well as
to provide GOI's evaluation summary. MTPT and TELKOM agreed to have their comments
and the evaluation summary furnished to the Bank by May 31, 1997, to enable the Bank to
finalize the ICR by June 15, 1997 (see Note 2/)
Note 2/: The subsequent paragraphs nos. 46 to 51 have been omitted.



37
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 3 - Status of IBRD Loan No. 31 82-IND (6 pages)
Attachment 4 - Summary of Project Status - December 1996 (9 pages)
Note: Attachments 1, 2, 5 and 6 have been omitted.



'o
Fl
EJ
I N DON ESIA
-i r.                                                                    THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
STATUS OF IBRD LOAN NO. 3182. IND
in Million USD
Lhtht      vBAI ANCE                DISBURSED
CoE*det/di  Proaing  Alocatd  UnalloUted   U%libon   Planned up
Cotnmited   & PlanninAg                     Up to Feb 97 to Aprl '97
Under PartA
2       USD 242.45 I
I leecommunicabon#T4U04
Loan3lB2 -IND                T ELKOM                 equipment& malerials                    -             048         0.00      0.00 -                  04         0.48
USD 350 Million             IJSD 310.6 MiII           ectluding switching
USD 0.48 Mill
f   Concerltbton    |_____
IUjSD 37.50 Milion                                       Computer systemn
including service
affangenents         -   -   -   -   -   -  -    33 95        0.00      0.30        0.00       28.91      31.50
USD p34 25 Milt
|fnl't                            - - - - - _  5.7P  0.00  0O09    0.00        5.79       5.79
USD ,aMi.
PMC  .V    _  -_          17.59       0.00      0.00       000        17.59      17.59
TVINNING    _  -  P         3.58       0.00       0.00        0.00       3.58        3.58
PARTER        3I4                                                                     3.1
Under Par S. C  and  |   TRAINIG   1. -_             3.84       0.00       0.00        0.00       33 -        3.84
D ol tte Pro iect     TECHNICAL   _ .              1.01       0.00       0.00        0.00       1 D.0
USD 274 , Mitt.                                                                                            26.02
TOTAL                    26.02       0.00       14.2        0.00      26.02       26.02
306.06       O.tm      4.44        0.00      29338       29984
BASED ON MONTHLY DISBURSEMENT FROM W/B MAR. 1907



r                                                                                                                                 N       F S I A
.C  r'l                                                                                                   l'lilI I) IT:LrC:oMIIN ICATIO%S I'R( LCT
et117   t                                 l)DISMISItlISENIEMEM   S0IFtII.JF &  REAI.Z7.ATION  OF liltD I312N Ne.. 31H2.INI)
M 0 cSn II I'r ll  N11.11-d  e                                                                                         ts,m v Diloselsl eCIIIrII Ni tt cll 1997
-l~ ~~~~~~~~~A ALI -w: .iFK                                                                                                                                               I ..01"                       1.n. Iho  frp   1
I'.            IJf (111 n   R                       tsA NIUMII                       * A  I*AM1.               Wl.W.ab-..p.I.              J..l. I)"                     Ifb               lt.-'                .I@    Ar.  *
_  __   __ I.______       _              7____ _                   _ C- .; l'.eI.. _ _Jn J.a ;Etl.Urj                          3994 1,9 I1                           |         997-1                  n   ;      -~
-~~~~  -          -                                                                                                                                I            .2i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7S,              'p~P,fw-
Ahm  AMrrn1 4                       40 bIn.Ih
WI'M1 '"')   4110) 1It,1;-J14p     rC Ic,11 I %Vt.)             I,I S               141.771.3   12 n4.6*1t.64 I '                              (1W t4.610.1(4 I:
rDAII  MAY  5. I*101
(nVtIIt~1I4I2.1qW IIRI1 1117 1141) I C (r. r -I C-h)            IP.             li(144    171 II IpI. 1  %3 41                                U19 I(XI                                15lj1   4'
1)D11 M.IAY 2Pm. 1w#Io
'4ll9a(I;?4qttIqN4IIIPp    1117 1141, IC G'*- (Wcd.)           Rr                                                         ?O1I  p.ll,                                                17 1791r,9.711 210
P'Alt MAI 'o, 1001
I 1    A}7^L          =            _________                       41i alI 321 1'                  (4'__________                         d1410.3n 1'
Ltc 31*                     Rp              11.07NW.I4.44"111x               9.164.01160                    V (1(4                                 9.164.11A01 A
cn                                                             07W (1    I'A 1 .11 h               n9 t   .96
AMI. An, I                          41 7Nt M.t'Ih
r(Xlls0ItE9I711I 'lp)31  ll;DiJ    IC (G-k ".k w"L)             FFR                 14 499.461 44              I1.l04.'4(I31             32174914 I34t;:OtthA
I)AIF MAY Ill. 1091
c"MAtIffl Dt,tIIRI, 3 MANI) t       .C (t,  r   c.    )         fItp            c1A1tJ1(.'7  (XI                  921O74 14' n1 (x                                                    13926.74' 2t
'AIVr MAM 2l. MIeI
nAIOMI IM,II( IRI1112 171J11)     1(1 60% (AVeM)              Rp               74,1'3.1',14.9                  11.444.,I9T 13           I59.191; l4                                  1 1hD3.199 2'
JPAiL  MAI  6no. 11                                                                                                                         .     4
(II' Al.                                                        11F_ 4t tl6 *:           41h,S9t, 74                                  !      fi r 9F  6   F;(.
l( 15h                      Rr                             [X.1    , (4.     4. II*    90            147.4(141 4, 6                                      ,6'41 1A
lnecrn lc.IIc.u
' 9^qIa0 pZ v4 wt7U N1 0 P 



t4t (7
I)                                                                                                                               I N DONES IA
U                                                        ''I'lJIth 1U'I :1LE.i'O II                                                             CANI Tl'A IONS  P'IMl.lECI
*': n.                                                                             IflSIIIRSEM NIFN1 S(IIFDIIII1 & PEA1.17A1TION O R1111111 LOAN N., 31P2 INI)
IIx% rd ..n N1 t.,odII   Di  sit"ploria hI.. c   Is 997
Pollirn    f thru-l l t
i 0A6 iA.       i i sAl llilt .. 1.1141                                                            _            _ _, i  ...... ....n .11- I...  = -    il 9qi                                   1 'r "*
N.               t  NUMIJl.t A                         NAtIlI            [         r      (NthI l.).I.                ,lIth    n      Ip. l.   .a Ih<                       tn                                                        All 1  tld. ,..  - A 'l
.    -          n/tt r              - .,    ..I*. .   __.       _ ._.           _ fv         !ri. 4  _        _J           i(tmt}             _ f                            IY~             _____In7                          (LA   _____I
_   __  _I ,   t   _  4   <                          ^                          7                        I                            4                     It
,sr rAJ1F1T  II9 S tb .95
Afta An.d 6                            47 tt4 'l1nih
rnl'9IC'l51SI1IllI  7172.1131)     IC (lmnnik*W ...Ilit)          rrit                I 140446.fl(X SO               22!11.7111  s              426.77r16                                         _121701U04
1}ATI: MAY 07. 1001
selloi^q|l2liN^llRI1112-II  l/v1l IC(a"A- Ir 64-0.           l2:              4r..'51169 l                      21.1111(a, (4                       N.                                      1g,11**.14  2.!41
AlrF  tIAI 2n1. 191
1m171 n041N6/1I1)N4jIt4 111Ii 7l72 I (- 6I C(*.* (Wmkr)             Rr                174.1 1F..4.lSS4, l1,744.15 OS                               4AS6. S6 EI4                                     16)31 I47
l,Alf MA) IV. lOl1
11)1 A 1                                                               *9731.605 21               9140"  tfi.                                            :. 1S10: I 
IC t-  . *I: Rr                                1. W, 44 .211 (Xi                 R411.04414A                I07.449 '7                                       t       192 ! %
1.'o.... Wi tti
Ah. Ann.1 6
4.II'1''l r llI4 717'111t 13 l   f     2 JII  I C (t-l.b N   Vtik)  I I R                11l.t41.911 21                  O. 19, j7jX t1            46.1.115 1f                                      20,140.04:3 n
IIAII  MAY (11.1091
WIlv 1n744l64'IIIIII) ll7 11211       IC (It I    7. (in.I,)        RlI               U f712 1'1l, l. (                 1.4?1,041 1t                111.101 W                                       7   l   1ol1
I)AIIA   h4AY 20.1901
Ig1aWII'~JI1fil6 llttl( 31. 2.1IlJ,   IC 1 .". (%VnL.)              Rl-       W.  10IiO760.44 ,is                       1.l766.63117               I  .4S.      i1                                  I      46
IsAll  PA    I6.I1'1                                                                                                                               120211   14                                        0   'i':
,__      Al.      ..___                         _ _ ._                  _-.2                  __                           __-(A_
IC 3-3 .                      Rr               2I.D107.069.374 Ki                9171.4117 Iisul                                                             9.17741s 1
I,Ii,n. 1,l6qs.
.   I f1AItl. (?3sr*       W(iI(I.I 1 lIAN:                                                                702t1 01  t6                121.176 20                                      204,.11. 19 16                . Wif". (
1 11.1J (Aphi-Ill           llJ.:(llf 33.5 1S79 II                                                                                        SS,Io, 14                                       ). 94 44 91



r'b
I)
,r   s                                                                                  1 .7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1) {)     F S I A
'1I iiiius g ILLECOMIINICATIONS 1OJIM(A
t'I'                                                                     I)5lSlltIIStf1'IIN1  S(IIlFliIPIII hI ICEAI.Z?ATION  OF Illl    I AlAN    wIl 3312AlN
11^^rol tim Ililtnflik  Dkim"Itrmewrn   Nitlri 1997
j lt^i A|l (XWAlIllis                  7tipmii.1          __              t,i.. nX .l   ,           Ih.b..,.n.p, l         _          .Is,lio,,nr  I 1.(96'99 tiMOss          7 ll* t,.                sI,r,-.,
t      IJ( Nmll7nl:n A                                                               IiSI  t  .0.4^ >1   1E1*ut                     "s-J                   /s..Fb[tr-                                     h     AP, 
_ _    __1)411.                          _    __ _   __    _,_ __ ____!_ '   _r                      ___.-__         __ _'   _   __ __               r           ________   __ t           7_          __       s__ __
I-  |____,_                    ___          ___,             ___   .4*        _         ' ________         '___ _    ____   _____                           ____________    ________                                ____
US AREA   A               |        |-lrc  on
I 1,trl u^n ....   l-      l n4   1  1 l9n I     11n6.1                      4O 1      01 5 O1f n             li                                   4 91 %.4n OS
Aft,, A.n.nl 4             lip              14114.441.23 (II               -P_1.0   1 1t                   tit_tl_ _ 71n1fi0 Ii 11
_ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~~__________ ..                                       __________                       11.942.111 46                   (III'                                  11,04: III 46I_________
IS ARL~.A. 1II1D  911
42 )I,n-llI
In.s 1 472.119In                                1 423.01137                   11(no                                    1 421.011132
V Ml E            s s$l.401191 ttl              4.17960,    '.4                0 (I                                    4,796f.66 *54
Rp              2I.09S.399.021 D(I               9,513.59710                    n On                                    9.133S9130
1  |11  Al   (r.  'I;l    II:I   FUDI- IN  l W( V(IItl) nAN l:                                                 21.    43(1    l               N XI 21,                                     1.    i
1,l^1  l @,f,-1., rlvl    vvWONA1 nAtJl:                                                             2al,.9 ,f71 4.,1I  17(M 7t.0l 42  I.-7a
I I hAl   f~ (l'9'  f '.I'        %V(WIf IiMAUlI,                                                          211.1.14.611is             I .12.1 Il U.                                (2j51 4.71 ItO
LN (f11DMill                       11f1i  I IA 1A DM                                                                    21 ni.116614                                                 1.71Q444' 91
'CR I hr"l.wlnl                    I(t l     9z
I C                                P2'.WlJ.  -Lr v  LI In      1)1:):                ;41216 7 16                  196.237 70                   n rn                                      19W, 27 10
I r -2" 7'1I1.1                    I1,,.e Il.1,nelll           9~l                      ( 11991 (WI3 71110 %I                                  "Ut1 15 (3( '
(I. S         1         1474% ON?                      1461.                   (*II                                       1410. 141I
lItp                 (.231,  151                      514 19                   t(1t                                          51419                            J
______,____________                      432(431                     0(91                                     ^41Q.1.493          *



t: *'-
q}1 ri
II e4                                                                                                                       IIN I  (ON 1;SI A
'I'i W)ii: '11        NI .,'( 1NI('Al IO!'vS PBRo.IECF 
D)ilIJlItSE 1i'M NT S(iliEI)ILE  &  RlEAI,Z7.ATION  OF IlIRI? ILOAN  N'o. 3182-iN!)
Ilawd (in Mo,illsh!   I)i2.wtii  einewI,  ?itarcIi 19973
__                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rosli"n   rrg'u,n' Is-
I.lAP  AnIfl(ATIO                           .....                                     ...........Ilip.. .l.  I   2 1                                                              1   ,.I   . I..           .ii..F.h
.-            lic K111,1I1UR A(iAIIh .Ir.9(I  SJ                                                                                        -  rd  ___7                                              t_. J.  7               n___ s_-    As,___7
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK 2 .(__  1_      _ _           ,                      1_ T_      '          _81                                                      18tv    11
I I R              II. 4141.10sx                 1412; III                 24S.401 41'            4.217Y   431           17          6159:61
l% S                  I.7n.5130011                21.11,7300n                3.1334                        o (xi          :.106.463 Yd
Rp              24.9'.464.22?2(W                  6416._t313             1.5,12.31Y 79               64.553 12            1x63.1767' 
_ ___________________________                                             .____________________                  22.071,137 1            1h1624    71      ~       .051.91r S'            r 92l1 453: 41            ?c,r1.
TRAINING EQItnArpw- 19IArv V1
12 M-Ith,
(f 7lFlVlEa?11'1I 1)12IN1)         I .grkv,  IIM                                      3.750.79! 45               .:A6.f7  6                      n0x1                  ::46.6116
WlIvon X262441IRD) 'I.' INl)                                                        225. Ir.o041.064 on            2,n', ss ic                    o:                                                  in'.      to
MiAr  W AJI(A.Ir 1991                                            Rp                 14   7 749. It                    1(1944 m                    (Ittl                                       1IO044 6
C14                                                                                         IO C                                                 jjt416.41                      t7nl                                1 2    4Mti               .
______   .__________      _ _              _     .____ _ _____:.s)7  7S____________           _____________          _____________4_7                  4.484.13 731 1_
(WlIzgV2l'7iI0R 1) lii7 fill)         r,7   Ill                  'M 134.,76 911                                                                        I,29,orl                              1.v 1    10
DIAl Iy AlkitI- 127 111ll, I '                                                                   15                 2z.71t (4                  til                                         1:. 32F (4
I.C                                                  1F,999  16                  0291 (XI                                     WM  16
. I.Wl5  10 7       e  oo      (  _                                     I.3&6.,%6 79
WV(ORLD .IANI:                                                                 57 7O(94 54                    ( I)                                     5.71q,92  9 4
IrI.Kl:(I.                                                                        M 1.4141 .4                 nI (WI                                       4 411 (
I11R  EPPARKn'StAI.
I |olr?nll )s- .w, 1 I' .ty ',(n  I l~ 3           ThW  lrl (Il              :(4i~  1 1                      (11              (IrI.     (.4           2.041.167
4' i t1hh
.l .l).l                    VPN               1.539.194,6917 on              23.0I.611 53                    0o(m                                      3.015.61 S3
Rp               9 f".29g,607 (I                  4.499.,160                       mW (in_                                4.49".06' 90
r(lA2 ..                                                                     11T5j..471 4!                   nn                                      17.S.47241 4nt9



*1*
Is
" j  fi}                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TII IRI) Tl .I.?. IOMlIINcA  I IONS l'ROJIF.C.
-1:tt                                                                    IllSItI~IIRlE il:N1  S(IlFIIII)1I.h& llFJ1.I7\1 10N  01' 1111(1) L.OAt; N11. 31111-NI)
II mal mI .  t.n 5te,n(I,  IJiI.sl- trnriIIt am i"l  1997
' 1  (^j         1   1lA            _     _i          _ __                 fs"    on                 e    , )         [         t  he-z ____             _____                         J'nIlIII,IIf ._  _ ;,bu   _.
ts.           i A  ?;IIMISt Il A                  NA,.,r            (....        C..o .i h               14..l R   J I- . I1 .. J.h. .F.b ,X J(.  I).i.-                            pn,..,            .I. i   Ap, '9
hATE                                    (:.nm..d ~~~~~~~~~~~~i. .4  J~, 9C~ilms          ----Iq                                             191-
DII, WPlN;IItt Is                                  .                        @IF 6.
Rrp               *F,9tlI4$(Wi                  ,91.7,9N6                  DIII                                    391,7f _7
SCtR Cmtultus                     I)t(k  w
I M.wiuIh
IlI,(I I'UI,,I'flI        IIS S                 9(.:1.19 (Vin              *14I   92I                                                         924.1& 9'
Rp                24t7(4.10t1tX                   1.315                    DIXU)                   _                 1.3235 
Itddj                                                                    1.t10l44 77                  OM1(1                                 I t.I 144 1I
I l.lJI V5"7llIlt 15S                           {.t  7 d                 3,4NO1.1  O                  DIn.             42. 1,10D1n          ,,4F Z1(60                42(IIIlItfn
WORIIJ  IIANIK POll I <ION                                                                lS1.05lN17 1J          3.IajSl 91              S,404.0,031 n1YS.111A4 Si                    I I o.6(I.1O tm
T l.iOM   OIPORTIONi                                                                    3,7311".tIl             I 5J  14                      3.99                     Jl               .t,6S7 Y * n1o
_(lRAN) l'   Al.                                                                     M , 754.1W             4.1)* 519.9            5.4104.OXl.          119J91.n*1319            I .l0t6n,n co



-J
INDONESIA - THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - LN 3182-IND
rNi                     ~SIMMAMRY OF PROJECT STATUS - DECEMBER 1996
Key Project                                                                                                  Comtilentsl
Objective                  Compolenilt                 Irplenlentatioll Meanis                         Progress                        Action & Date          Status
1. Divelopmiintr ni Goverm-  a. Training A ConsultanI   1. Policy advice [or Colpolalion Plannig  - O Conlracts package of training were imple-                    Compleled
ment Ability lo lomiltate                               (MTF'l)                                niented
appropriale policies and                             2. ce.ulaltoy and analytir l capablilly  - 6 Conparalive sludy anml seiniiar were
regulatiolns to improve Itc                             (DGP I)                                conducted
orpratiig environmcnl anrd                           3. Expeil lo( Plcview of Seclor Policies
perlorinallce ol the comnpa-                           (MTPT)
nies in tlhc sector                                             SARS2M,          ACTL S 2 M
Wn Funding $ 2M, ACTL $ 1.9 M
2. Expansion A Modeiniza-    a. Capacily Ulilizalion    l. Capacily Ulilizalion Consullanl and l'rocu-   The program of capacity ulilization was    Remaining loan around  Compleled
lion on lhc Contlry's                                  romenl of Balancing Equipment for lhe   done on lhe miniimiuin  Scale in lerm of loan  US$ I OM was reallocaled lo
lelecomnmnunicalimnl Net-                               network; Suipply ard iislanl Interlace  absofplion, bit thc significant resill lhad    TELECOM-tV Projecl for
work with a locus on seven                              Equipment itily ulilizing clirCntl idle capa-   been successiliNy achieved     lurther procurement of Capa-
major cilies (Jakartla, Medan,                          cily of 125,000 mnail lines in 7 big cities                                   city Ulilization Equipment
Liandung, Semarang.                                           SAR S 24.2 M,    ACIL S 10.5 M
Sufralmbya Denpasar,                                          Wn rumrnlinug $12M, ACTl $ 0.5 M
Ujunql! l'anrllani1)
b. Expand Local Swildcing,   l. Supply anl install 475.000 main lines,  Local swiltcing project work completed.    The Balance of 187.000 LU    Compieted
Oulside Plant anrl         consisted ol:                           The plannedi laiget ol 630.000 LU was  is lhe resull of TELKOM's
Transmission               a. 630.000 LU of local Swilching installed   reduiced lo 4443.000 LU, and OMC project  chiange in projecl manage-
in ab)oul0 250 localion             (26 localions) was eslablished as an addi-  imnenl policy.
SAl? $ 280.4 M. ACTl. $ 202.5 M   tional swilchiing projecl           Additional Swilching pro-
jecl used fund(s froni lhe
unlused Conlilgencics
b. 1.050,000 pairs of primary cable    The target of 1,050,000 pairs of primary    The balance of 117.000 pairs  Completed
(OSP) in about 140 locations, inchulinig  cable was reduced lo 933.600 pairs and    was covered by a diffefent
Iransunissioll (115 ItCM system,    47,490 Cli oni 25 RIl of transmission were  project under Pelila V
26 OF Cable System, 2 Digilal MIW   added as an addilional Telecom IlIl OSP    program.
Radio Links, Imifra Struclure)      projec to meel a pressing demand in Jakar- The Additional TELECOM IlIl
SAR $ 611.5 M,      ACTL $ 404.2 M   la and Surabaya, where a new SDH lech-  OSP Project was financed by
WB Fundinrg $260.2M, ACTL $ 242.5 M   nology was firsily inlroduced to TELKOM.  remaining budget of WB loan
for OSP project allocation fund
Loan Amounl: C:urient  S310.5M (Telkon) and $2.OM (Parpostel), Cancelled  5 S37.5M, Orig.  $350M (Icl. Parpostel). Disbursed Dec. 196 = $287.87M, Orig. Closing Dale = Dec. 1996
1                                                                                                          rile O-work.dir%0lbr%SUMMAR-l XIS



 ',
INDONESIA - THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - LN 3182-IND
Ii qltl                                          SUMMAIRY OF PROJECT STATUS - DECEMBER 1996
*c .
Objecti.e                  Key Project                     e                                                                            Comments/
Objective                  Component                    ni_plen_enta_ion Means                         Progress                        Action & Date          Status
c. Compuler nelwork admi-   1. Develop OSP management syslem          SISKA, Phase 11 scope ol works was     The project is expec-       Ongoing
nisIralion syslem and      (SISKA) (or 7 cities                    cilanged (roni 7 cilies to 2 cilies    ted to be comtpleted
Outlside Planl Mainlenance      SANR $ 38.3 M.     ACTL $ 38.5 M   (Jakarta. Surabaya)                    in Jtly 1997
Center                          WB Funding $33.9M. ACTL $ 23.8 M                                          Extending Conlract for US $
10,4 M willi SOFRECOM will
be fimanced under loan
3482-IND by Nov 1996
2. Install Oulside Planl Mainienlance Ceniter   OPMC, original G locations were increased   Additional budget for OPMC   Compleler
(or G locations (OPMc)                 to 12 loralions and werc completedl by  project was around
SAR $ 36.7 M, ACIL $ 65.9 M   end of 1996                           $ 16,34 M. Ihe remaining
payment after loan termina-
lion in Dec. 95 was covered
by TELKOM's inlernal lund
3. mipmovemeuii on I El-KOM  a. Procuremenl oh Trainiing    I. Procnrement of Training equipment  Compleled                                                          Corpleled
Im1plemenlation operalion   Equipienl and Training             SAR$l  1 1.9 M,    ACTL $ 5.7 M
and fimancial peglorriance  program                           WU Frudling $7.2M. ACTL $ 5.7 M
Ily 111(lradlng Irchnlical anl(l
managerial capatbililies of                          2. Traininii proriam                      The UNDI' Grant to mnance fpar b ol the                            Completed
1elkon stall                                               Overseas Fellowship                 traininig program was cancelled. The work
SAR $ 7.2 M   was conlinued using itilernal fund
WI) r,,,,(lin,q $ 4.f M
b. Twininiig Consullant, SCR   1. (mild maniagerial. financial and cclIedical    Al were comnpieled                                     Cornpleled
Consulltait, and Devetop   capabililies lor efficienlt mamnagement and
MIS                        operalioll
Twinning:
SAR S 3.6 M.     ACTL $ 3.6 M
WU Fuididj $3.6M. ACTL $ 3.5 M
Loan Ainounl Current=$310.iM (I elkonm) and $2.OM (Parp)osll), Cancelled  $31.5M, Onig. $350M (hid. Parpostel), DisburfsedIDec. 199   $287.87M.O On. Closing Dale=Dec. 1996
raime: D-work dii4flibASUMMAl- I XLS



0'
Ju 'INDONESIA - THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - LN 3182-IND
SUMMARY OF PROJECT STATUS - DECEMBER 1996
Key Projecl                                                                                                  Commenisl
Ohjcctive                  Comilolllponnn Mcans                                                          Progress                        Aclion 6 Date          Slalus
c. PMC-V Constollantl,        CoIIlSIIcy seivikcs to hep TELKOM       Al were compeled                                                    Comfpleed
Consituclion Squervision    devekop in hone capabiltes
Consullant and OPMC            PMC V Consullalil:
Consul.ant                     SAR $ 36.4 M.        ACTL $ 17.5 M
WI) Fuidinig $17.59M. ACTLS I 7.5 M
Loan Amflounlt CGilniwl $-.110.5M (Telkom) and S2.1)M (Parplosle), Cancellcd  $37.5M, Oiug.  $.150M (Ind. Parposlel), Disbuised )cc. 199   $287.87M. Orig. Closing Dale = Dec. 1996
rile: O-work.dir%DlbrSUMMA1R-l.XLS



!                                                                                                                                                                  A,
LI e.l                                                                      TlTble 5: Key Iiidicators for 1'roject Iml)lefllelitaIioIl
1990                  199lI                1!192                  19913                1994                   19                    1996
SAlt      Ar.I,g1 l     I       M ArlIsi    SAiI      Achtial     SAlt      Arcti   I argel hi   Acluaii   Targel lU   Achtnd \c  1Iargcllf)  Actual \c
3l.,Iwoqk
I:xc.nqne. caocily ('000)                         1.217      1,375     1t431       1.714      1.700      2.093      2.148      2.915      3.015      3.426      5.064      4.824       6.033    6.344
I.we Sre-t- 1(001                                  '194      l.OJfi     I.44       1.276      1.314      1.549      1.579 2     .945      2.259      2.52G      3.505      3.790        4.012    4.186
PldI,r P.yIYn-r                                  J. o0     135 1A      7.000    .10,751      10,000   4-,0002       500oo    sn (0II    15000 oo    I6734    125.000    90,700    135.000   106.613
Qtuality of Service
II'lsIl0i0I Imes  I Year                           65         G2         65         S I        55         50         50         2 7        58         1 9        20          1 6       1 5        16
I .- 1   - clI,.., I r, 1-    4I.1 c (Ieovof.)     i n       113%'       1.3%       I I,% ".    1         /01/     1n1(/%       I'll/.    n1%         718!/.     1 I%      no,/.      82%        817%
Cnall cronplevlon faln S7T (IwrcrntO               30%       23%        32%         25%       35%        26%         38%        36%        35%        43%        39%        48%        507.      53%
0lolal SInIll 1(000)                              40 Ir      39 4G     44 10       39 52     48 50       39,30      .i .;      39OS       47 44      42.17      43 80      37 58      4260       3764
,Iallf 1'e 11)110 I.oq-% seIvwn                    40         39         19         32         37         26         35         22         21         17         13         12         12         9
IIlnolo,ln, Flm'1 of roliurn (V                   11%        9%.        1(18%      21^A       116%       11%        I7 li.     22%        2317.      17%        20^!       14%        36^/.      I 6%
r81 iwl a-.rl . il icenil)
3'  , fi ol-'linq cnc15                    -4%        36%        - S^b2%                6%,^,     57%         6%         191/.     NA        27%        IA         4AG^       NA        .40%
err iv..nmr nm.o Iin' 1 p...1 f.ror3)
(A:.1n.mr  .,,.m.1ipa.u:e mns                      I%         -5%        1%        -2%16       01'       190%        0%         29%        NA         28%        NA         26%        NA        -16%
pPl avemfa(3 1iiaiuie hp (le l eIxo-Ir')
NO-3 Iolr3em.m Castl . C-'l, Igomuu3 ae peltir-u.3 of  30.m^,  14%      .'          1'.^      311^%      35%        42%        54%        42%        66%        54^.:      GI%        95%        G3%
.lvI'ra(3r 2 yreil I1nvroMmeol.' (prorernuu
I)cbl SrvCrov0".ar                                 I1         2 4        2 1        2 4        2 4        2 5        3.0        3 3        33         3 4        47         37         34         4 3
h0 As per Ilue SAR of Ihe  ctcon.rnnu icalions IV P'roject
lb As pwr flue SAI 1 of lhe Temfcommimicalions Sctoer Modefrizalion fI"ojcc
lr lff-mm Iu.Ijsedf tin Ah .ini Rerlwn
I



48                                    A__icnr,e
4?a. 3 c
SUM:\ARY OF
MAJOR STEPS IN THE REFORM\ OF THE INDONESIA
TELECO.MNIMU'NICATIONS SECTOR A-ND WORLD BANK COOPERATION
Y'EAR             EVENT             1                          RE.\LARKS
1945   Establishment of Jawatan     PTT under Dutch Colonial Administration was transferred to
PTT'                        Government of Indonesia which the name was chanced to Jawvatan
Pos, Telepon and Telegraf (PTT).
1961   Establishment of a state     Jawatan status was transferred to a nexly-established state-owned
enterprise -PN. POSTER'      company to provide postal and telecommunications services.
1965   As a state enterprise namelv    The Government separated postal and telecommunications services
TN. TELEKOMUNTIKASI'  into two state-owned company. PN. POS and GIRO and PN.
TELEKO.fLNIITKASI.
1971   The First Loan of Worid      To assist Government in transferrins telecommunications operations
Bank (210-IND.               from a government corporation to a separate operator,
US S 12,3 millions)          PERU.ITEL.
1974   As a state enterprise nameiv   PN. TELEKONfUNIKASI was urther divided into two state
'PERUNITEL' (P.P No.         owned-companies, Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi
36/1974)                     (PERLTITEL) and the other one is PT. INMT providing telecoms
services for Telecommunication equipment manufacturing.
respectivelY.
1980   International telecom-       PERMITEL is "organizing body" for providing domestic
munications businesses were  telecommunications services, and PT. INDOSAT a government
transferred to PT. rNDOSAT   owned company is "organizing body" for International Telecoms
(P.P. No. ---'1980)          services.
1986   The Second Loan of World    Bank financed Technical Assistance Project to develop
Bank (2757-lND, US S 14,5   PERUMTEL's capabilities to ensure efficient operation of the
million)                     services and timely implementation of future investments.
Consultants were appointed to assist PERTTIMTEL's institutional
strengthenine.
1989   Government changed           Monopolv in the provision of telecommunications was modified,
telecommunications           permittins. PERUNITEL and INrDOSAT to undertake ne%%* ventures
legislation (Law No. 3/S9)   with private sector participants in the provision of non-basic
services in the sector.
1991   *  PERUNITEL is              The government transformed PERLUMITEL as a state owned
transformed into         company with public service as its principal corporate purpose. into
PT.TELEKOMIJN7IKASI  a state-owvned limited liabilitv corporation with a commercial
INDONESIA (TELKOM)  corporate purpose by other entities. The primarv business is to
(P.P. No. 25/1991)       provide local and long distance telephone services.
*  NITPT Decree 116/91       Enables private operators to offer 'no-basic' services without
having to cooperate with TELEKONI or 1NDOSAT. Licenses to be
issued by MfTPT depending upon abilities of operator.



49                                      Acche
Pa;e 6 o
SU.\I1MLARY OF
NIA.JOR STEPS I N THE REFORM\ OF THE INDONESIA
TELECO.MrIMUNICATIONS SECTOR A.ND WVORLD BANK COOPERATION
(Continued)
.YEAR       G     EVENT                                      R _  RE.l_RKS
1993      GOI Decree 8/93,          Estabiishes the Telecoms regulatorv framewnork pursuant the 1989
separated Policy         Telecoms Law - A 'Regulatory Body' to be the arbitrator in
rezulations from         regulatory matters . Defines functions of MITPT's Telecoms
operations               Directorate General and enables licensing of a privately owned
second International and domestic satellite and cellular
communications operator.
*  NITPT Decree 39/93       Allowvs private sector operators to participate in 'basic' services,
onlv in cooperation with TELKOM or iNDOSAT via (i) joint
ventures, (ii) joint operating schemes (no licenses required as
assets remain under ownership of the Orzanizing Body", or (iii)
management contracts
1994   *  MTPT Decree 59/94         Establishing operationai and ownership rules for Joint Operating
Schemes (JOS).
*  NfTPT Decree 108/94     i9ITPT sets tariffs for all basic telecoms services. The decree
establishes interconnection charges reaulations and related tariffs
applicable from January 1995 for most Telecoms operators that
interconnect with TELKONI's nenvork, inciuding "'Universal
Services Obligation" (USO) charzes.
*  PT. SATELIrNDO           A joint-venture with TELKOM and INDOSAT (see decree 3 9/93)
commenced for provision of Domestic and International satellite
and cellular services.
*  KOMSELIN`DO and          New privately owned companies are established to provide cellular
TELKOMINDO               services.
1995   *  NITPT Decree 60/95        TELKONI granted monopolies over fixed wirelines and wireless
networks throughout Indonesia (including Joint Operations
Schemes) for 15 years, and over domestic long distance services
for 10 vears.
* vITPT Decree 61/95        TELKO1M designed on organizing body" for the life of the
company,
*  Ni\TPT's Sector Policy   Persuant to the "Outlines of State Policy" promulgated for the
letter to World Bank     formulation of the 6th Five Year Plan (Repelita VI), determines
(April 13, 1995)         GOI objectives and strategy and outlines key sector reform
initiatives for the development and institutional improvement of
the telecoms sector in Indonesia through year 1999. Most of these
initiatives materialized as per the steps summarized in this table.
* The 5th World Bank Loan   For the Telecommunications sector modernization project (TSMIP),
No. 3904 - END for       to support the implementation of a comprehensive reform program
Telecommunications (US S  for the Telecommunications sector, with policy, investment and
325 million equivalent)    technical assistance components.



50                                   Page   :7
SU\B.ILARY OF
-   LAJOR STEPS LN THE REFORWI OF THE INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR AND WN ORLD BANK COOPERATION
(Contintied)
-Y'EAR            EVENT                              -        RE.MLARKS
*RATELINDO              Licensed in 1993 (see decree 39,93), PT. SATELINDO, a majority
privately owned joint-venture with TELKONI and WNDOSAT,
commences in mid 1995 the provision of basic local services in
Jakarza and Bandunz using wireless technology.
*  JOS (Joint Operation    In October 1995, five joint-venture agreements with TELKON\,
Schemes) or KSO        under which the KSO investors are responsible for the development
(Keria Sama Operasi!    and operation of the local nenvork in five large KSO Division for a
minimum of 15 years and providing 2 million additional lines in
total by 1999, in an initial 3 vears period.
  IPO Program            In November 1995, PT TELEKOM compietes an Initial Public
Offerins of about 19%,o of its shares (own ed bv GOI), floated in the
US . European, Asian and Indonesian stock markets. The proceeds
of about US S S00 million equivalent were to be used to fund parts
of TELKOM's capital expenditure and working capital requirements.
*  Price Cap Tariff Decree  Establishing a transparent tariff review mechnanism by reference to
(MITPT October 23      Indonesia's CPI (Consumer Price Index), to be effective from
1995)                  Januarv 1997
*  TELKOMSEL and           Two joint-venture companies in which TELKOM has ownership to
KOMSELINDO              operate GSMi and ANMS mobile cellular network.
S
1996   *  MOBISEL                  A joint-venture companv to provide the NMIT-450 cellular services
formerly provided by TELKONI and PT. RAJASA.
*  Development Division    Establishment of those new Divisions is intended to develop the
and Mfultimedia        telecommunication facilities on turnkey project basis and to provide
Division of TELKON-    multimedia services.
The attached Table indicates the Current Telecoms Market Structure in Indonesia.



Attac.me
51                                      Page S c
INDONESLA. TELECOMMU.N;\ICATION. MALRKET STRUCTURE (')
Service Characrer (1)      Service Comneritive Structure (2)
Services                              Basic   Non-basic        Mlonopoiv   DuoDolV   Competition
Public Netvorks
Domestic
Telephone ilocal &: lonz distance)  x                          x
International Teiephone. Telex and
Telegram                            x                                     x (3)
Packet Switched Data Netnvork           x                                                   x
Special Networks:
Mobile Ceilular                       x                                                   x
Trunk Radio                           x                                                   x
Fixed Cellular                        x                                                   x
Pasing                                x                                                  x
Very Small Aperture
Satelite Terminal                   x                                                   x
Leased Lines Video Conferencing       x                                                   x
Telecast                              x                                                  x
Specialized
Services: (4)
Private
Networks (5)                          x          x                                       x
E-Mlail                                          x
Store and Forvard Facsimile                      x                                       x
Electronic Data
Interchange                                      x                                       x



52                                       A , ;,1-,
I.NDON ESL  TELECOMMUNICATION \LARKEY STRUCTURE
(Continued)
(I) Basic services involve the delivern' of information betveen s-nder and receiver without processin2 or
modification and include telephone. teiex. t-lezram. pack-et switched data networks and leased circuits.
Non-basic services are defined zenerallv as services resuluir. from the ability of computers and
Telecommunications (TC) facilities to process and modify t-.e form of data contained therein.
(2) Private parties mav participate in the provision of non-basic international TC services with a license form
the MITPT and in basic TC senrices in cooperation wvith an orzanizinz entity and basic provider of TC
service (as defined in the Telecommunications Law) throug' manasement agreements, joint operation
schemes or joint-venture corporations.
(3) Duopolv with SATELINDO. a joint-venrure corporation of a private Indonesian company,
TELKOM and 1\DOSAT   SATELrN\DO is not expected to provide telex or telezram services
(4) Capacity for specialized services is leased from INDOSAT c. TELKOM.
(5) Resale of capacity is not permitted
(M) Source: Nvorzan Stanlev Research.



53
INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182 - IND)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(4 pages)
The Borrower sent its contribution to the Bank in April 1997, comprised of a
comprehensive report on the projects' execution which is available in the projects' files (36
pages, with detailed attachments) and an Evaluation Summary of the project implementation and
completion which is attached hereto (4 pages).



54
IN t) () N IS1 IA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
IBRD LOAN 3l82-IND
Period: 1990(-1996
EVALUATION SUM;NIARY
GENERAL
The Government's strateev for economic de'% elIopment emphasized:
*  Maximizing exporn earnings bv promotinu the development of key support service to
exporters.
*  Expandine the opportunities for and capacitv of thc private sector to participate in -
Indonesia's development.
* Increasine the esficiencv of the public sector.
* Promotinm balanced national development by reducing the development imbalancc
between urban and rural areas. and between .fava and the rcst of the country.
-  Increase skill and knowledue Telecommullcation Sector of Human Resources
Development NTPT and PT. TELKONI stalfhv education and training programmes.
Therefore. the Government's strateev for the telecommunications sector was to:
*  Increase rapidly the quantity and quality ot' telecommunications services to mect the
growing demand.
* Increase the commercial orientation and ct'ticiencv ot' the entities in the
telecommunications sector.
-  Promote a well-conceived organization structure. and management functions. svstem
and practices that enable PT. TELKO1M to operate services efficiently and effectivelv.
*  Promote sound domestic construction. consuiltinm and. where economically feasible.
manufacturine industries to support the telecommunications sector.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In line with sector objective, the objective of the third telecommunications project
(Telecom - IlI) was to assist the Govemment to improve overall management ot'the
sector. strengthen PT. TELKOM's institutional capability and accelerate cost-effective
implementation ot a large network investment project by:
* Assisting the Government to formulate sector policy and regulations and to develop
appropriate mechanisms for its management ot' public telecommunications
enterprises.
I-



55
*  Improving PT 'I'ELKONM's institutional cfficiencv throuLd a program ol h1umain
resourccs dcvclopmen.
* Accelerating expantion and modernization of the telecommunications facilitics in the
countrv as a whole and focusing primarily on the seven major cities: Medan. Jakarta.
Bandunu. Semarang. Surabava. Denpasar and Ujune Pandang.
*  Strengthening MTPT staff through domestic and intemational education and training
programmes.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Considerine that the project was much lareer than any wvork previously undertakenl by
PT. TELKOM. the Government considered Bank assistance in-tinancing the project in
spite of some portion usine PT. TELKOM's internal fund.
Bank assistance portion in financing consisting of:
%VB Loan .iS' - IND   = US S 350        million
KFW (Germanv) Loan  = US S 134.57   miilion (equi'.alefl
*  OLCP (Japan) Loan    = US S  45.08   million (equv.alent)
The Project was expected to be completed by March 3 1. 1994. There werc 66 (sixty six)
contracts siuned by PT. TELKOM with Intemational / National Contractors. Consultants.
Suppliers and Training Institutions. The total amount of contracts wvas US S 744 million
equivalent. consistine of US S 485 million (65%) Bank Loan and US S 259 million (35%)
TELKOMIi .i lund.
To achicve thc objectives. the project components were implemented
*  Traininiei Prouram and Equipment
* Capacity Utilization
*  Outside Plant facilities. Switchina. SISKA and OPMC
*  Consultant Manacement / SuperVision
Following the actual implementation schedule. the loan 31 82-IND was extended twice
until 31 December 1996. Within those period of loanL all projects were accomplished
completely except SISKA project still on progress of finalization due to additional scope
of workl being implemented.
RESU LTS
The project achieved. though w ith some delav. the physical target and objectives of
meeting partlv the demand:-



56
* New ieleDhone connections
* Imiproving of access to service in rural areas
*  Improvine qualitv both local and long distance services
*  Improving the institutional capabilitv ol' [IT. FELKO\I anLi Governrment
Ilhe technical. trainins- and institutional objectives ot the action plan %%ere implemented
wvithin the loans penrod.
Treccon - III proJect components of Outside Plant (OSPi -nd `'\itching progrcssed
remarkably and gave a strong impetus to the Final proram acnie ement of Pelita-V
( 1990 - 1994). Dunng that period. PT. TELKOM estahlis heL 4. miilion ncw lines.
're project resulted qualified human resourccs developrr.-n:. Lsp-c:a!lv in the
tciecommunication sector. and can be face new challenLes in science and technoioev.
Indicated that development was certainly accelerated. In aXerag.e. over 400.000 lines per
year were instailed. \hilde oniv 49 957 lines in average  irs  nszzlled in thc previous
5 year pcriod. With those dcvelopment program  at t-. dn  or' IPelita - V (1994)
p-I'. IELKON  acnieved 2.5 niIlion connected lines f line in se-ice   To achieve the
zar.et of'the bollouInu ileflita - VI. PT. TELKWO  continue- -he m eveiopment program
%vith hankls nnancc wxhich. one %%as Loan 3482 - IND)    W 'B  amountinum  US S 375
million.
LESSO.NS LEARNED
Apar Ifronm its financial contribution throuch the Third Loan I S' i2 - IND ). the World
Bank (V1B) made other very positive contributions to the de% elopment of domestic
telephone thcilitics and services in Indonesia. Acting as a catalyst for institutional chance
ol the sector. the \VlB always encouraged and supported:
*  Government ot' Indonesia ( GOI )to build up regulatory frameworks to promote
eltectively the provision ol adequate quantities ol telecommunications services 'ith
high level perlbormance to customers in all major market seements.
*  PT. TELKOM. to improve the operating perfornance "ith customer orientation and
expedite its privatization to come up to competitive and multi-operator environments.
In the technical aspect. the W1B was involved in the preparation of OSP project from
its initial stace and the WB sometime took an initiative t;r the consensus buildina
within l'T.TEILKONM tor succesfull implementation of the prolect from its impanial
standpoints.
The WKB maintained an harmonius xvorking relationship x%uth PT.TELKOMI
manacement and statfs. as also with the covernment acencies involved. throughout
the project implementation period.



57
rhosc W orid B3ank-s contributions were attributed tO:
* The WB-s crosscountrv experience in the teiecommunications sector in developing
countries.
* The WB's wkell-balanced assistance between physical and institutional development
of sector.
* The \V3Bs principal philosophy of promoting competitive procuremcnt equipment.
In procurelmienc -ie%% ot the contribution. the WB had made to both the development and
modernization of the sector and the improving its oreanization. Therek ore. it wvas
concluded that the further lending to the sector for Telecom - IV Project and
Telccomrnunications Sector Modernization Project (TSMP) may result in a significant
contribution to efticiency and development.






58
INDONESIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3182 - IND)
APPENDIX C
IBRD MAP NO. 22076






IBRD 22071
T>>FHALAND                                       r4o                                   ,-                16         _                   , 2                      10                           INDONESIA
K~ f   '\               Ssoulh China Sea                                                                  PHILIPPINES                                            PACKAGING OF OSP PROJECT
Package II
Package IV
M,./J.   _   \ !   ie-   -,  /   /   .-   A1ALAYSIA  )   N   /           -    /           n                                  S    Region Offices
SINGAPORE                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~              ~          ~~~~PACKAGE II  TT                         Region N.mbers
,   i   L   \   SINGAPORE  /        /                                    9>           /        PACI<AGE II           /          /                                            Reg,on Boundaries
-       Internat.onal Boundaries
p                    u                           t                                            Samar;ia V    /             rblFxlN,           /                    E              ,/- 9                     c aOX           PACIFIC OCEAN'
Sbe,f,. l/_j~Cf4' 0                                                                                                                                   t PACKAGE 11H1  '
IRK
PACKGCE I ,                                                                                                                                                                   hands                         / d
D
PACKAGE IV\
-  -   -~~~    S>i400401A                                (>9                                                   Aryttooa ~~~cSooS
OCEAA'                                    *                    >  CT                                      _     C                     e                              MOO'S O      100     000000S0 0
PACKAGE  III   PACKAGE  IV                 LObo6o                                                                             050A-
PACKAGE II          /                                                                                                     Tt~   .   supans f   rl,,0R TORS o             00       .on        600
000      e R 2 0fts.,o doOft 56.0fb0_ n. CO,Ok*O0S .00d O)
C_/               7-' -wfit-  2o *-0nW AUSTRALIA    - 
0000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  *  00                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      0~AN_R  990









IMAGING
Report No.:          16761
Type:      ICR



