Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16146
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3622-JM)
NOVEMBER 25, 1996
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department HI
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Jamaica adopted a market determined exchange rate in September 1991.
At the end of September 1995, US$1.00 = J$37. 11
At the end of October 1996, US$1.00 = J$35.05
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOJ                  Bank of Jamaica
BOP                  Balance of Payments
CARICOM              Caribbean Community
CET                  Common External Tariff
EFF                  Extended Fund Facility
EIEA                 Export Industry Encouragement Act
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization
FTC                  Fair Trading Commission
FCA                  Fair Competition Act
FTZ                  Free Trade Zones
GATT                 General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GOJ                  Government of Jamaica
JEA                  Jamaica Exporters Association
JPSCo                Jamaica Public Services Co.
JRC                  Jamaica Railway Corporation
JSE                  Jamaica Stock Exchange
JCPS                 Jamaica Cane Product Sales Limited
JCTC                 Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
MTPF                 Medium Term Policy Framework
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NCB                  National Commercial Bank
NHT                  National Housing Trust
NIBJ                 National Investment Bank of Jamaica
PSDAL                Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
PSIP                 Public Sector Investment Program
PSMP                 Public Sector Modernization Project
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SIA                  Sugar Industry Authority
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                   Paul Isenman
Division Chief              Krishna Challa
Staff:                      Errol Graham



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE .......   .....O. .._.,...............................               ........... ;
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                       ...   ... ....i.
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................1
A. BACKGROUND                                        ..
B. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                  .2
C. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES                                     ..3
Macroeconomic Performance.                                                                  5
Trade Reform                                       .7
Customs Reform.                                                                             7
Deregulation                                       .9
Privatization                                      .9
Improving the Business Environment: Legal, Regulatory, Institutional Reforms .O
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT    .                          .14
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .15
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .16
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                     ..17
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                     ..18
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS .18
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                                                                      19
PART       II:    STATISTICAL ANNEXES   .   .2............................... 21
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .........  ........... ................ 31
C. INTRODUCTION.                                                                             3 1
B. BACKGROUND AND LOAN COINTEXT.                                                             3 1
C. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .32
Challenges.32
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .32
Achievements .33
Difficulties.                                                                              33
The GOJ's Performance .34
The Bank's Performance .35
Specific Concerns .36
E. CONCLUSION .36
APPENDIX B: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ......................................... 37
APPENDIX C: POLICY MATRIX......................................................--...................................... 54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3622-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector
Development Adjustment Loan in Jamaica, for which Loan 3622-JM in the amount of
US$75 million equivalent was approved on June 15, 1993 and made effective on June 25,
1993.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, as compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1994. The first tranche of US$40 million equivalent was released
upon effectiveness in June 1993; the second tranche of US$35 million equivalent was
released in September 1995, and the loan was fully disbursed by September 27, 1995.
This completion report was prepared by the Jamaica Resident mission staff, with
assistance from headquarters' staff, and is based, inter alia, on information from the
minutes of the Board Meeting; the Report of the President of the Bank; internal Bank
memoranda; staff Supervision Reports and extensive discussions with Bank staff. Since
this project was supervised by the resident mission staff, there was no formal aide memoire
left with the Government during the final supervision stage. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by preparing an evaluation of the project's implementation
which is included as Appendix A of the ICR.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
JAMAICA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3622-JM)
Introduction
1.   Jamaica exhibited significant volatility in its macroeconomic performance over the
past two decades as a result of external shocks (primarily oil price increases) and
inconsistencies in domestic policies. Expansionary policies were followed by stabilization
programs that sharply cut output growth. The end result was low efficiency of resource
use and investment, as reflected by weak economic performance despite high investment
rates of over 20% of GDP. Moreover, the public sector expanded thereby crowding out
the private sector and increasing the external debt.
2.    In 1986, GOJ began to address seriously the pressing economic issues. With the
decline in oil prices and a recovery in mineral exports, the economy began to expand. The
external current account deficit was reduced significantly from an average of 11% of GDP
in 1980-86 to an average of 7% of GDP in 1987-89. The overall public sector deficit was
also reduced sharply to 5.5% of GDP in 1986-87. It widened again in 1988 to 13.5% of
GDP because of post-hurricane and election related increases in expenditures. As external
flows began to taper off, the country's foreign exchange reserves were gradually depleted.
3.    The Manley Government, elected in 1989, began to accelerate the pace of reforms,
including reductions in the size of the public sector and removing the distortions in the
incentive system. In September 1990, GOJ adopted a market-determined exchange rate
regime based on inter-bank transactions and eliminated all exchange controls in September
1991.
4.    Jamaica's first Structural Adjustment Loan (2105-JM) was approved in 1982. The
loan was aimed at fostering export-led growth and the development of the private sector
through deregulation and increased public sector savings and investments. Since then,
there has been six other related Structural Adjustment Loans and two supporting
Technical Assistance Loans, focused on, inter alia; improvement of public administration,
trade liberalization, deregulation, privatization and the strengthening of the capital market.
While these adjustment loans provided strong external financing support, the
implementation of the reforms necessary for the development of the private sector have
lagged and consequently the anticipated strong export-led growth was not achieved.
Project Objectives
5.    The primary objective of the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
(PSDAL) was to consolidate the structural adjustment efforts to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to restore the economy's capacity to generate sustained growth. The



iii
program was also aimed at creating a business-friendly environment in which an efficient,
internationally and domestically competitive private sector could become the engine of
export-led growth. The successful implementation of the program would allow the
redirection of government resources from the commercially-oriented sectors towards the
social sectors and infrastructure. The adjustment program was focused on (i)
strengthening fiscal adjustment; (ii) trade policy and customs reform; (iii) deregulation of
key domestic productive activities including sugar and petroleum; (iv) continued
privatization to support the fiscal adjustment program and encourage greater private
sector participation in utilities and other infrastructure; (v) reform of the legal, regulatory
and institutional framework for business. The project had clearly defined objectives that
were consistent with the strategy outlined in the GOJ's Medium-Term Framework paper
as well as the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (see para. 7 & 8 of main report)
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    In general, the loan was successful in achieving its major sector objectives. The
structural adjustment efforts were consolidated with substantial progress made in
achieving macroeconomic stability although towards the end of the program there was
some deterioration in the macroeconomic environment--highlighted by the problems in the
financial sector, exchange rate depreciation and an upsurge in inflation. Fiscal
management was strengthened considerably through privatization as well as improvements
in revenue collection. The overall consolidated public sector balances moved to a surplus
of nearly 5% of GDP by the end of FY 1994/95. However, growth has lagged due inter
alia to industrial disputes, adverse weather conditions and the high cost of working
capital.
7.    There were significant improvements in the trade regime and customs
administration. Documentary clearance for imports now takes half an hour--a dramatic
improvement over the previous seventy two hours. In December 1993, a "green line"
system was instituted to facilitate speedy clearance of air passengers with nothing to
declare. The Evidence Act was amended to accept computer-generated material as a
declaration of liability or as material evidence. Export transactions are being facilitated by
the simplification of the export form, the introduction of a special "Raw Materials
Window", a "One-Stop Shop" at the ports and the publication of a comprehensive Export
Procedures Manual governing the rights and responsibilities of Customs and Exporters. A
duty-suspension scheme was introduced in May 1995 and subsequently expanded.
8.    The PSDAL objectives to deregulate the sugar and petroleum sectors were also
achieved. The importation and marketing of refined sugar has been liberalized. Domestic
prices of raw and refined sugar are now market-determined. The Sugar Industry
Authority (SIA) has been restructured to focus on regulatory, monitoring and inspection
functions. The deregulation of the petroleum sector and the dismantling of the Petrojam's
monopoly has also been successfully completed. As a result of the deregulation, the
pricing of petroleum products by Petrojam is fully transparent and published in the daily
newspapers.



iv
9.    Substantial progress has been made in meeting the privatization objectives. All
four Government-owned sugar mills have been sold and some of the new owners have
already made significant capital investments, rationalized production capacity and
improved the efficiency of operations. The privatization of the associated cane lands
through lease has been much slower, but has now been completed. Of the other 4 entities
which were identified for immediate privatization -- Air Jamaica and National Commercial
Bank have been privatized. Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC) and Petrojam have been
brought to the point of sale. In addition, 40 small- and medium-sized public enterprises
were brought to point-of-sale.
10.   There has been substantial reform of the legal, regulatory and institutional
framework for business. The Fair Competition Act was passed in March 1993 and GOJ
established the Fair Trading Commission (FTC) in September 1993. The Cabinet has
approved proposals to amend the Companies Act. In December 1993, the Securities Act
was enacted and the Securities Commission came into being. Important omissions in the
Act were also corrected by amendments and key regulations were promulgated. Positive
results have already been seen from the over 700 cases investigated by the FTC and the
amicable resolution of 600 of these cases. It is yet too early to assess the impact of the
amendment of the Companies Act and the Securities Act.
11.   The Government also undertook reforms aimed at attracting new investments and
facilitating exports. Concessions to investors based on a case-by-case screening ceased in
June 1994. In August 1994, the Cabinet approved an investment Negative List. GOJ also
moved to developed uniform tax treatments such as the accelerated depreciation scheme
and to allow the operation of single-factory free zones. All implicit export taxes have been
removed. A single-point clearance system was implemented in April 1993 allowing the
processing of export documentation at the point of exportation. Export documentation
has also been reduced substantially by the introduction of a single export clearance form --
Form C82. In May 1993, the Bureau of Standards ceased mandatory certification of
furniture manufactured in Jamaica replacing it with voluntary certification.
12.   Government's ownership of the reforms, the positive fiscal impact of the
privatization program, the significant legislative and institutional changes in some areas as
well as the significant improvement in Customs services to exporters and importers are
strong positive factors impacting on the sustainability of the reforms. The impact that
the Fair Trading Commission and the Securities Commission have made in addressing the
complaints from the public have built enough social capital to ensure their sustainability.
Perhaps the only area of reform where there is some risk of reversal of the reform is in the
trade area, primarily due to the lowering of tariffs. There are already strong calls for the
protection of Jamaican farmers by increasing tariffs. Mitigating against such actions,
however are Jamaica's commitments under GATT.
13.   The Bank's performance during preparation and implementation of the project was
satisfactory. The Bank played a major catalytic role in helping to define the reform



v
objectives through the establishment of close Bank-GOJ dialogue on a comprehensive
medium-term reform program. In the implementation of the reform, the Bank provided
technical assistance in some critical areas including; (i) the formulation and drafting of
amendments and regulation to the Securities Act; (ii) the conduct of an Investment
Incentives Diagnostic Study; (iii) the drafting of amendments to the Companies Act. The
Bank also contributed significantly to the analysis of the impact of the privatization of
monopoly enterprises. Through timely and well-planned supervision missions, the Bank
made major contributions to keeping the reform program on track. The establishment of
the Bank's Resident Mission in Jamaica in March 1994 assisted the efficient monitoring
and supervision of the reform program.
14.   The Government demonstrated a high level of commitment to the implementation
of the Project. The commendable implementation performance reflected the overall strong
ownership of the reforms and the commitment to create an economic environment
conducive to private sector-led growth and development. In the end, only two waivers
were required for second tranche release despite the wide ranging nature of the reform
agenda. In areas where implementation was slower than projected this did not reflect a
lack of comrnitment of GOJ's part, but rather the lack of proper coordination, lack of
focus, the slow pace of legislative actions or ir. some cases, the lack of skilled personnel,
as was the case in the computerization of customs.
15.   The satisfactory outcome of the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
played a critical role in Jamaica's policy adjustment program. The PSDAL program
resulted in the consolidation of Jamaica's structural adjustment efforts in several areas
including; privatization, deregulation, trade and Custom reform, legal/institutional
framework for business, legal framework for competition and simplification of the
investment and export procedure. Accelerated privatization efforts have resulted in
significantly less pressure on the budget to finance loss-making public enterprises.
Consequently, the budget realized a surplus of 4.7% of GDP in 1994/95 and the surplus
for 1995/96 was 2.3% of GDP. The reforms in Customs administration have already
resulted in a significant improvement in the processing of imports and exports. The
reduction of tariffs and increased transparency in the operations have resulted in increased
compliance and an improvement in revenues. In 1994, exports increased by 13% and by
17% in 1995.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned.
16.   In the process of implementing the project the weak relationship between
Government and the private sector was highlighted. This meant that much more time had
to be spent on fostering ownership of the reforms in the private sector. It was also found
that there was very weak implementation capacity within government due largely to poor
coordination and shortage of skilled personnel in key areas. In addition, the slow
legislative process in Jamaica was a major factor affecting the speed of the reform process.



vi
17.   One of the main lessons learned from the operation is that a key element for the
success of any major adjustment program is strong ownership on the part of the
government. In this regard, the program of reform should build strongly on the Policy
Framework agreed with the government. Strong ownership ensures strong commitment
to reform and minimizes the risk of reversal--particularly in the face of politically
unpopular reforms.
18.   A high level of transparency and public education (through NGOs for example)
can help to build social and political capital that will not only assist in the speedy
implementation of the project, but will also ensure greater sustainability. This social
capital could prove to be of immense and lasting benefit in the general development
process. This was the key lesson learned both in the privatization of the sugar factories as
well as in the establishment of the Fair Trading Commission where there was considerable
participation from the stakeholders from the beginning of the process.
19.   The detailed Action Plans prepared in the case of customs and investment reforms
were very helpful "road maps" to monitor achievements of practical results on the
ground. The lesson here is that detailed action plans can help to enhance the speed and
effectiveness of implementation through the identification of complementary or conflicting
tasks or the optimal sequencing of tasks. They also provide a very tangible basis for
measuring achievements. However, in this latter regard there is need for flexibility on the
part of Bank staff and management in the judgment of the "achievements" to ensure that
these useful "road maps" do not become "legal millstones". For example, assigning equal
legal weight to each specific action in a plan minimizes the incentive to be detailed in the
planning of the reform program and eliminates necessary flexibility. Such flexibility will
also enable the Bank to modify the assessments of achievements without compromising
the primary objectives of the reform. Perhaps one approach is for the Bank and the
Borrower to agree, a priori, on a list of critical items which would be the minimum
acceptable conditions to be expressed as such in the Loan Agreement.
20.   Another key lesson learned from the implementation delays in several areas of the
reform program that were due primarily to lack of coordination and shortage of human
resources is that the Bank should appraise not only a Government's commitment to a
reform program, but also its institutional capacity to implement it. This will assist the
Bank and borrowers to identify weaknesses early on and facilitate either the prerequisite
or companion technical assistance to build implementation capacity. In particular, the
Bank should assess very carefully the scope of actions to be carried out under a project to
establish a realistic time-frame for completion.
21.   On public sector and institutional reform, the successful execution of the Custom
reform and the establishment of the Fair Trading Commission in Jamaica provides a useful
case study. They demonstrate that a clear focus on objectives, clarity regarding
targets/performance indicators, strong government commitment and willingness to give
the agencies the necessary autonomy can together provide the combination of ingredients
necessary for successful institutional reform even in historically challenging areas.



vii
22.   A positive lesson for the Bank arising from the successful privatization of the sugar
mills is that proper sequencing of reformr---namely creating an appropriate regulatory
framework before privatization--can play a major role in determining the success and
sustainability of the reform.
23.   After discussions with the GOJ, and at their request, the Bank has agreed that no
more adjustment operations will be planned for the foreseeable future. The :IMF accord
also ceased on September 1995. However, activities aiming at the modernization and
restructuring of the public sector and the promotion of private sector activities are
ongoing. The Private Investment and Export Development Project (approved in 1994)
aims to accelerate internationally competitive investments and exports of Jamaican private
enterprises through improvements in export support systems and financial sector support
for investment and trade finance. The Board recently approved an investment loan to help
restructure and modernize several ministries and privatize state-owned enterprises.
Finally, the current lending program includes preparing a project to help strengthen the
capacity of Jamaica's new regulatory agency and promote the private provision of
infrastructure through a special finance facility.



JAMAICA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Jamaica exhibited significant volatility in its macroeconomic performance over the
past two decades as a result of external shocks (primarily oil price increases) and
inconsistencies in domestic policies. The overall fiscal accounts were continuously
disrupted generating unsustainable domestic and external imbalances. On the external
side, the economy was affected adversely by sharp changes in its terms of trade, rapid
increases in the US dollar value of its debt due to the depreciation of the US dollar and a
fall off in net foreign financing. On the domestic side, successive governments acted to
expand effective demand as a means of maintaining economic growth in spite of the
external shocks. These expansionary policies then had to be followed by stabilization
programs that sharply cut output growth. Delayed policy response implied that significant
distortions including high tariffs, interest rate subsidies, discretionary duty exemptions,
price and exchange rate controls and public monopolies were not addressed. The end
result was low efficiency of resource use and investment as reflected by weak economic
performance despite rather high investment rates of over 20% of GDP. Moreover, the
public sector expanded, thereby crowding out the private sector and increasing the
external debt, which doubled between 1980 and 1985, reaching US$4 billion. Poor
performance led in 1986 to the cancellation of an IMF standby arrangement, the
suspension of Bank lending, and a halt to debt-rescheduling discussions.
2.    An OED performance audit concluded that the Bank's three Structural Adjustment
Loans (SALs) to the country should have established a better balance between domestic
adjustment and foreign borrowing. Slower disbursement of those adjustment loans, in line
with the pace of reform and the country's absorptive capacity, might have been more
appropriate. In effect, OED judged that the high levels of support allowed Jamaica to
delay economic adjustment. OED also argued that better analytical work by the Bank and
a more decisive use of loan conditionality could have improved performance. One of the
key recommendations from OED was that "Conditionality should be limited to a few basic
policy elements that are vital for the success of the adjustment program." Loans should
not be cluttered with micro conditions which can divert the attentions of Bank staff and
government officials from the essential issues.
3.    In 1986, GOJ began to address seriously the pressing economic issues. With the
decline in oil prices and a recovery in mineral exports, the economy began to expand with



2
GDP growth of over 4% per annum during 1987-89. The external current account deficit
was reduced significantly from an average of 11% of GDP in 1980-86 to an average of
7% of GDP in 1987-89. The overall public sector deficit was also sharply reduced to
5.5% of GDP in 1986-87. It widened again in 1988 to 13.5% of GDP because of post-
hurricane and election related increases in expenditures that were financed mainly from
external sources. As external flows began to taper off, the country's foreign exchange
reserves were gradually depleted.
4.    The Manley Government, elected in 1989, began to accelerate the pace of reforms,
including reductions in the size of the public sector and removing the distortions in the
incentive system. Interest subsidies were eliminated and there was some strengthening of
the financial sector regulatory framework and instruments for monetary policy. Most
prices and marketing and distribution channels were deregulated, general food subsidies
were removed, most quantitative restrictions and trade monopolies were eliminated and
tariffs were reduced to the Caribbean Community's (CARICOM) Common External Tariff
(CET) maximum of 45%. In September 1990, GOJ adopted market-determined
exchange rate regime based on inter-bank transactions. Because of loose monetary and
fiscal policy, the exchange rate began to depreciate rapidly and inflation increased. In
September 1991, GOJ eliminated all exchange controls and the rate depreciated sharply.
By April 1992, the rate had reached J$28 per US dollar, from J$5.5 per US dollar in late
1989, but thereafter it quickly recovered to the range of J$22-23 per US dollar.
5.    Jamaica's first Structural Adjustment Loan (2105-JM) was approved in 1982. The
loan was aimed at fostering export-led growth and the development of the private sector
through deregulation and increased public sector savings and investments. Since then,
there has been six other related Structural Adjustment Loans and two supporting
Technical Assistance Loans, focused on, inter alia; improvement of public administration,
trade liberalization, deregulation, privatization and the strengthening of the capital market.
While these adjustment loans provided strong external financing support, the
implementation of the reforms necessary for the development of the private sector have
lagged and consequently the anticipated strong export-led growth was not achieved.
B. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan (PSDAL) was designed to
support the Government's policy adjustment program. The primary objective of the
program was to consolidate the structural adjustment efforts to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to restore the economy's capacity to generate sustained growth. The
program was also aimed at creating a business-friendly environment in which an efficient,
competitive private sector could become the engine of export-led growth. The successful
implementation of the program would allow GOJ to redirect resources from the
commercially-oriented sectors toward social investments and infrastructure.



3
7.   The adjustment program was focused on reforms in key areas including:
(i)   strengthening fiscal adjustment through revenue efficiency measures (including the
broadening of the tax base) as well as improvement in public expenditure policies
including the concentration of public investment on social sectors and economic
infrastructure;
(ii)  trade reform to reduce substantially tariffs in stages in accordance with the
CARICOM Common External Tariff and customs reform to facilitate freer trade
through a complete overhaul of the customs administration;
(iii) deregulation of key domestic productive sectors including sugar and petroleum;
(iv)   continued privatization of public enterprises to support the fiscal adjustment
program and to encourage greater private sector participation in utilities and other
infrastructure; and
(v)   reform of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for business through
reforms covering competition, domestic distribution, operations of the capital
market, corporate law and administrative red tape.
8.    The project had clearly defined objectives that were consistent with the strategy
outlined in the GOJ's Medium-Term Framework paper as well as the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. These identified macroeconomic stability, improvement of private
sector confidence and the development of social and economic infrastructure as priorities.
In addition, the project was also consistent with the IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in
effect from December 1992 to December 1995. The project facilitated the continuation of
the GOJ's adjustment program. and therefore contributed to eliminating the risks of
costly policy lapse or reversal.
9.    The specific objectives of the loan were also well understood and supported by the
Government. What was perhaps not very clear to the Government and the Bank at the
onset was the level of technical effort and administrative coordination that was required to
achieve the objectives. Both the GOJ and the Bank were overly optimistic in estimating
the time necessary to accomplish the wide ranging reform program. The absence of an
implementation unit to play the critical coordinating role also hampered the pace of
implementation.
C. PROGRAM OBJECIIVES
10.   The achievement of the loan's objectives is perhaps best measured in the context
of the progress in the major reform areas to which its conditions were related. The
conditions were:



4
(a)    Macroeconomic Program  First tranche: (i) maintenance of sound macro policy
frame work monitored through selected BOP and fiscal indicators; (ii) maintenance
of a minimum percentage allocation of Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP)
to social sectors as specified in the Letter of Development Policy; (iii) maintenance
of liberalized foreign exchange and interest rate regimes; (iv) compliance with the
policy objectives and programs described in the Letter of Development Policy.
Second tranche: same as for first tranche with no retrogression.
(b)   Trade Reform: First Tranche: (i) announce a three-stage tariff reform and
timetable; (ii) implement a 5%-30% tariff rate with four tariff levels with the
exception of agricultural products at 40% and basic necessities and agricultural
inputs at 0%; (iii) eliminate agricultural stamp duties for at least 30% of listed
products. Second Tranche: eliminate remaining agricultural stamp duties, except
for a few agreed sensitive items
(c)    Customs Reform: First tranche: implement of the first part of the Customs
Reform Action Plan. Second tranche: completion of the Customs Reform Action
Plan, reaching target processing time for cargo and passenger clearances, the
implementation of a duty-suspension regime to facilitate both direct and indirect
exports.
(d)    Sugar Sector Deregulation: First tranche: (i) Cabinet to approve the Sugar
Sector Deregulation Program and initiate implementation. Second tranche:
complete implementation of the sugar deregulation program.
(e)    Petroleum Sector Deregulation: First tranche: eliminate the de facto import
monopoly of Petrojam by: (i) subjecting the refinery to the same import duties as
other importers, and the elimination of all privileges; (ii) adopting a uniform import
tariff of 5% for crude oil and 15% for petroleum products (except for lubricants);
(iii) eliminating (import) stamp duties for petroleum products; (iv) deregulating
petroleum product prices to distributors ; and (v) taking additional measures to
facilitate competition among distributors.
(f)    Privatization: First tranche: (i) bring to the point of sale at least 20 small and
medium size entities, two sugar entities, Air Jamaica and National Commercial
Bank; (ii) agree on criteria for liquidation of public entities. Second tranche:
(i) submit to the Bank a list of privatization candidate for 1994-1996 comprising
the majority of remaining Government owned assets in commercial productive
sectors (excluding bauxite) and public services; (ii) bring to the point of sale,
consistent with agreed principles, remaining sugar entities, Petrojam; and achieve
satisfactory progress in privatization/restructuring of Jamaica Railway
Corporation; (iii) bring to point of sale 20 other medium-size entities; and
(iv) based on agreed criteria (i.e., market test and financial performance) identify a
group of public entities for liquidation as required and appoint of liquidators.



5
(g)   Capital Market First tranche: Pass Securities Act. Second tranche: (i) adopt
regulations for the Securities Act; (ii) put in place the regulatory frame-work to
improve the structure of stock exchanges, to facilitate entry and exit and bring
transparency; and (iii) present to the Bank a review and an Action Plan to
streamline tax incentives for financial instruments to be introduced in the 1995/96
fiscal year.
(h)   Competition Policy: First tranche: (i) pass the Fair Competition Act; (ii) adopt
and implement new procedures for Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
(JCTC) to select its distributors and introduce an open transparent system. Second
tranche: (i) promulgate regulations for the Fair Competition Act, and (ii) establish
the Fair Trading Commission.
(i)    Simplification of Administrative Procedures: First tranche: complete the
Action Plans for simplification of administrative procedures for investment
approvals and export transactions. Second tranche: complete Action Plans for
simplification of administrative procedures for investment approvals and export
transactions.
()    Companies Act: Second tranche: Submit to Parliament for approval the new
Companies Act, including provisions for liquidation and reorganization of
companies.
11.  In general, the Government was successful in achieving the major objectives of the
project. The structural adjustment efforts were consolidated with substantial progress
made in achieving macroeconomic stability although towards the end of the program there
was some deterioration in the macroeconomic environment. This was highlighted by
problems in the financial sector, exchange rate depreciation and an upsurge in inflation.
Fiscal management was strengthened considerably through privatization as well as
improvements in revenue collection. There have been significant improvements in
Customs administration. The domestic market is much more deregulated and there has
been substantial reform of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for business.
The section below details the achievements in the major reform areas.
Macroeconomic Performance
12.   Since 1992, Jamaica has made considerable economic progress. Fiscal and
monetary policies were tightened substantially in mid- 1993 in order to neutralize the
inflationary impact of the large public sector wage increases granted earlier that year. In
general, the economy performed well above the targets that were set. As Table 1 shows,
the overall consolidated public sector balances moved to a surplus of nearly 5% of GDP
by the end of FY 1994/95. This improvement in fiscal performance reflected: (i)
improvements in Central Government operations, including improvements in tax collection
and the management of interest payments; and (ii) the reduction of Bank of Jamaica



6
(BOJ) losses from over 5% of GDP in early-1993 to about 2% of GDP in March 1995.
Losses were eliminated by October 1995 and the BOJ showed a profit at the end of
FY1996-96. At the same time, Government has been successful in meeting its
conmmitment to allocate at least 18% of the total public sector investment in education,
health and nutrition.
Table 1: Medium-term Poliev Framework  arets and Actual Performance
Overall public sector surplus   1993/94            1994/95
PSDAI, Target            2.5                3.0
Actual Performance       4.2                4.7
External current account/GDP
PSDAL Target             -1.7               -1.1
Actual Performance       -1.7               2.0
Memorandum Items
Real GDP Growth Rate          0.8                0.5
Inflation Rate                21.2               30.8
13.   The Jamaican dollar remained relatively stable at J$33 per US dollar from
December 1993 until April 1995. The exchange rate is market-determined, but the BOJ
purchased foreign currency from authorized dealers and cambios to meet the public debt
service obligations and build reserves, with the latter proceeding considerably faster than
originally targeted. Private capital inflows were very strong during 1994 and early 1995 --
in response to the higher domestic interest rates and, with some fluctuations, continue
strong on average. In response to the higher inlflows, the foreign exchange surrender
requirements of commercial banks to the BOJ were reduced from 25% in 1993 to 5% in
January 1995. The surrender requirements for cambios were also reduced from 85% in
1993 to a maximum of 30% and a minimum of 5% in November 1995.
14.   The external current account improved from a deficit of about 5% of GDP in 1992
to a surplus of about 2% of GDP by March 1995. However, strong growth of imports
(27% in 1995) outstripped commendable growth in exports (17% in 1995) leading to a
deterioration in the current account so that by December 1995 the current account was
showing a deficit of US$255 million or 6% of GDP. Private transfers and capital flows
remain strong, offsetting the current account and resulting in a net accumulation of
reserves. Net international reserves grew from mninus US$42 million at the end of March
1993 to nearly US$500 million at the end of March 1996.
15.   Although there have been several areas of progress as have been indicated above,
weaknesses remain. The financial sector remains fragile and inefficient with interest
spreads at almost 40%. Ineffective regulations and less-than-adequate supervisory
capacity at the BOJ have resulted in a proliferation of financial institutions, some with



7
inadequate capital base and lax fiduciary controls. The failure of three financial
institutions in December 1994 and the publicly-acknowledged problems of other financial
institutions exposed the weakness of the financial sector. The control of money supply
remains a problem and as a result, inflation increased in the latter half of 1995 to peak at
4.3% in December. In addition, the high interest rates used to stabilize the nominal
exchange rate have stymied productive investments resulting in low real economic growth
estimated at 0.5% for FY 1995/96. Unemployment (which increased from 15.4% in 1994
to 16.4% in 1995) and poverty remain major issues. Another major concern is the more
than doubling of the domestic debt from J$23 billion in December 1993 to almost J$50
billion in December 1995, rising from 23% to 31 % as a share of GDP.
Trade Reform
16.   The trade policy reform under PSDAL was aimed at reducing substantially tariffs
in stages and in accordance with the Caribbean Community's' Common External Tariff.
Substantial progress was made in this area as Jamaica took the lead in CARICOM for the
reduction of the CET. Under the program, Jamaica reduced import tariffs from a 0-70%
range in 1991 to a 5-25% range, except for a few sensitive agricultural products which
carry a 40% duty.
17.   The PSDAL trade reform program was also aimed at eliminating agricultural
stamp duties (except for a few agreed upon sensitive items). This followed on the process
begun under Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment Loan I (TFSAL I), Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL) and Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment Loan II
(TFSAL II). Although the GOJ eliminated stamp duties for 30% of products covered, the
process slowed during second tranche which followed a successful conclusion of the
GATT. GOJ then argued that the Uruguay Round of GATT allowed developed countries
a longer period to phase out agricultural subsidies than was envisaged for Jamaica at the
time the PSDAL conditions were designed, hence a longer time was needed for the
phasing out of certain protective duties. Prior to taking this position, the GOJ
commissioned a study to determine the impact of removing stamp duties on agricultural
commodities. The study indicated that the removal of stamp duties on some items could
be accelerated on some items beyond what was agreed for second tranche, including corn
gluten meal, corn meal, peanut meal, soya meal, linseed meal and cotton seed meal.
However, in the case of beef, pork, fruits and vegetables and some poultry items, the
Government decided to retain the duties. The Bank agreed that these remaining duties
could be phased out over the next ten years in keeping with GOJ's commitment under the
GATT. A subsequent study by the FAO assessing the impact of structural adjustment on
the agricultural sector recommended that any removal of stamp duties should be done in
the context of a strategy for developing domestic agriculture and that there should be
mechanisms to prevent dumping from other countries.
Customs Reform
18.   The objective of the reform of Customs was to achieve measurable and substantial
improvement in the quality and speed of customs clearance to facilitate imports and



8
exports as well as revenue collection. This was to be achieved by: (a) minimizing
Custom's involvement in export transactions; and (b) by establishing an effective,
modernized and speedy system for the clearance of imports.
19.   Substantial progress was made in the implementation of the agreed detailed Action
Plans for the Customs reform. There have been significant improvements in Customs
administration. Importers working through 34 brokers (up from 16) are achieving
documentary clearance within half an hour, a dramatic improvement over the previous
seventy-two hours. Effective penalties have been established to encourage error-free
documents and payments within 24 hours. A Customs Inspectorate Division with
responsibility for post-auditing was established in September 1993. The division is
currently staffed with 38 revenue agents and performs audit functions island-wide. In
December 1993, a "Green Line" system was instituted to facilitate speedy clearance of air
passengers with nothing to declare. The Evidence Act was amended to accept computer-
generated material as a declaration of liability or as material evidence.
20.   The implementation of the Customs Reform program has also helped exports.
Export transactions are being facilitated by the simplification of the export form, the
introduction of a special "Raw Materials Window", a "One-Stop Shop" at the ports and
the publication of a comprehensive Export Procedures Manual governing the rights and
responsibilities of Customs and Exporters. Examination of shipments has been reduced
significantly and randomized with the exception of cases of duty drawback or where
Government has intelligence on drug-related activities. The removal of duties on over
1,400 items in April 1994 reduced substantially the number of drawback shipments.
Although there was initially weak ownership by GOJ of the Duty Suspension System due
largely to the perceived adverse revenue implications, it was finally introduced in May
1995. Revenues did not diminish and it has subsequently been expanded and is supported
by the computerization of the duty calculation and payment endorsement function.
Although the implementation of the computerization of customs procedures has begun,
the progress has been slow.
21.   The preparation of a new Import Clearance manual was delayed in order to give
priority to the preparation of a new Export Procedures Manual. The priority accorded to
the new Export Procedures Manual was appropriate given the urgent need to encourage
exports and demands from exporters to simplify the procedures and make them more
transparent. The new Import Procedures Manual was submitted to the Commissioner of
Customs in October 1996. In respect of the establishment of the Management Information
System, elements have been implemented including the Revenue Collection Information
module and training of relevant personnel. The Entry Processing and Revenue
Accounting modules are now being implemented.
22.   In retrospect, the 12 month timetable established for the completion of the
Customs Reform Action Plan was overly optimistic given the large number of actions to
be taken (including some legislative actions) and given GOJs weak implementation
capacity.



9
Deregulation
23.   The GOJ achieved the PSDAL objectives to deregulate the sugar and petroleum
sectors. The importation and marketing of refined sugar has been liberalized, subject to
the imposition of a variable levy based on world prices. (Sugar Control Amendment Act,
1994). With the deregulation, domestic prices of raw and refined sugar are now market-
determined. As a result of the deregulation, several private companies are now involved in
the importation and distribution of refined sugar subject only to the imposition of a
variable levy based on the world price of sugar. The resulting competition improved the
supply of sugar on the domestic market.
24.   The Sugar Industry Authority (SIA) has also been restructured to focus on
regulatory, monitoring and inspection functions. All commercial functions of the SIA
were transferred to the new company owned by cane farmers and sugar manufacturers--
Jamaica Cane Product Sales Limited (JCPS). JCPS has been appointed by GOJ as the
sole agent for raw sugar exports.
25.   The deregulation of the petroleum sector and the dismantling of the Petrojam's
monopoly was successfully completed. As a result of the deregulation, the pricing of
petroleum products by Petrojam is fully transparent (published weekly in the newspaper).
The liberalization of the dealers' margin has introduced not only greater price competition,
but also resulted in better customer service at the stations.
Privatization
26.   Privatization of state-owned enterprises was a key component of the PSDAL. The
primary thrust was to accelerate the GOJ's privatization program, thereby reducing the
drain on public sector resources, widening the ownership base and enhancing access to
foreign markets, technology and capital. The major objectives were: first, to divest
priority entities including sugar mills/estates, Air Jamaica, National Commercial Bank
(NCB), Petrojam and Jamaica Railway Corporation. Second, 20 additional entities were
to be brought to the point of sale; and third, a liquidator was to be appointed to supervise
the liquidation of a selected group of public entities.
27.    Substantial progress has been made in meeting the privatization objectives. The
most notable achievement in this area has been the privatization of the four publicly-
owned sugar mills. It was widely held that these would have been the most difficult to
divest given social and political sensitivity as well as the large unionized labor force.
Perhaps for these reasons as well as the uncertain outcome, there was initially somewhat
weak ownership by the Government. However, intensive dialogue between the Bank and
GOJ supported by rigorous analysis led to an increasingly strong ownership. As it turned
out, the process of privatization of the sugar mills could well be a case study of best
practice due to skillful management of the process by the GOJ Enterprise Team as well as
the level of transparency and stakeholders consultations that took place. Sugar production
of 227,000 metric tonnes was the highest production recorded in the last five years. The



10
timely modification of the regulatory framework in a manner consistent with private
ownership also contributed significantly to the ease of divestment.
28.    The factories have been sold and some of the new owners have already made
significant capital investment in order to improve the efficiency of operation. Productivity
at both the field and factory level is increasing. The privatization of the associated cane
lands (through lease) was slower, but has now been completed.
29.    Of the other four major entities which were identified for immediate privatization -
- Air Jamaica and National Commercial Bank have been privatized. Jamaica Railway
Corporation (JRC) and Petrojam have been brought to the point of sale. Although the
conditionality with respect of the privatization progress of JRC was imprecisely defined as
"satisfactory progress" much has been achieved. GOJ closed the loss-making JRC to
minimize the negative fiscal impact and is currently involved in negotiations with
prospective purchasers. In the case of Petrojam, GOJ is currently negotiating with
potential buyers. In addition, 40 small- and medium-sized public enterprises were
brought to point-of-sale.
30.   One of the major positive spin-off of the project is the significant amount of
privatization experience that has been developed. This experience is expected to
significantly improve the efficiency of subsequent privatization to be supported under the
new Public Sector Modernization Project (FY 1997). In addition, the positive impact of
the divestments on the fiscal balance has strengthened the government's commitment to
privatization.
Improving the Business Environment: Legal, Regulatory, Institutional Reforms
31.   The actions in this area were aimed at improving the business environment through
legal, regulatory and administrative reforms covering competition, domestic distribution,
capital market, corporate law and reducing bureaucratic red tape.
32.   The Government was relatively aggressive in meeting these objectives and
consequently, substantial success was achieved in this area. GOJ completed an initial
assessment of taxation of financial instruments in 1994 which included recommendations
for: (i) broadening the requirement for withholding taxes on interest income at source to
include all deposit-taking institutions; (ii) rectifying, if needed, the interpretation of taxable
interest income to include interest paid at maturity as well as interest paid in advance;
(iii) improving the incentives for investment in longer-term government securities; (iv)
pension system reform; and (vi) measures to stimulate issuance of publicly-listed
securities.
Competition Policy
33.   Following on the passage of the Fair Competition Act in March 1993, GOJ
established the Fair Trading Commission (FTC) in September 1993. The establishment of
the FTC was preceded by an intensive public education program to educate businesses and



11
the consumers on its role. Since its inception, the FTC has investigated some 786 cases,
of which 600 have been resolved amicably. These included some high profile cases
involving the National Water Commission, Telecommunications of Jamaica and the
Jamaica Stock Exchange. The Commission has highlighted weaknesses in the regulations
governing some statutory boards including the Sugar Industry Board and the Coffee
Industry Board and has made recommendations for corrective measures that should
improve competition.
34.   In general, the establishment of the FTC and its aggressiveness have given
consumers a psychological boost and have made businesses more consumer conscious. It
has also increased the level of competition and efficiency in some key sectors such as the
petroleum, the baking industry and the construction sector. For example, the escalation
clause ("prices subject to escalation") in building contracts was a major device for passing
on the inefficiency of developers to consumers. As a result of the FTC review, the
Jamaica Developers Association has agreed to modify their procedures in accordance with
the requirements of the Act.
Companies Act
35.   The modernization of the Companies Act was seen as a major step in reducing the
cost of doing business and improving transparency. Actions in these regard include: (i)
the simplification of the incorporation process; (ii) simplification and relaxation of the
rules governing capital maintenance; (iii) clarification of the role and responsibility of
directors; (iv) introductions of provisions to permit the operations of holding companies
with the appropriate regulation; (v) prohibitions to corporations from acting as directors
of companies to ensure that identifiable natural persons will be accountable for
performance of their duties; (vi) relaxation of the auditing requirement for companies
which do not offer securities to the public; and (vii) clarification of the registration of
corporate securities, replacing the provisions for registration of companies with a new
personal property securities regime.
36.   The Cabinet has approved proposals to amend the Companies Act to satisfy the
above objectives. The amendment has been drafted and reviewed by the Chief
Parliamentary Counsel. A second draft has been prepared for Cabinet Approval.
Capital Market Reform
37.   The primary objective of the capital market reform was to improve the legal-
regulatory framework for capital markets in order to engender confidence and deepen the
market. In December 1993, the Securities Act was enacted and the Securities
Commission came into being. However, in the process of preparing the regulations it
became evident that there were some omissions in the Act that would inhibit the Securities
Commission's ability to issue regulations relating to licensing of non-resident owned
dealers and investment advisors and to charge licensing fees to the Jamaica Stock
Exchange (JSE). In February 1995, the Securities Commission approved the proposals
for Amendments and Regulations to the Securities Act. The approved regulations deal



12
with four critical areas: (i) the criteria and applications for licensing; (ii) licensing and
registration fees; (iii) disclosure requirements for issue of new securities; and (iv) conduct
of business rules for licensees that detail the relationship which should exist between
dealers, investment advisors and their clients. These amendments were designed to make
the operations of the Securities Commission more consistent with the operations of similar
regulatory bodies world-wide.
38.   The formulation and implementation of further amendments and regulations under
the Act will be done in stages. The first stage will address the need to license dealers and
investment advisors and their representative under the Act. It also addresses the capability
of the commission to charge fees for licensing the Jamaica Stock Exchange, dealers,
investment advisers and their representatives. The first amendments also include
provisions for strengthening the Commission's authority to take action upon the
completion of its investigations. The amendments in this first stage will also allow for
bonds, debentures, promissory notes issued to the public to be regulated by the
commission. The bill seeking the first stage amendments to the Act was passed in the
House of Representative in mid-March 1996. The bill was subsequently passed by the
Senate on March 29, 1996.
39.   The second stage amendments and regulations to the Securities Act, 1993 propose
the introduction of regulations outlining conduct of business rules, governing the
relationship between licensees and their clients; continuous disclosure requirements for
issuers of securities and, rules governing takeovers and mergers of public companies and
mutual funds.
40.   Future amendments and regulations the act propose to cover areas such as (i) rules
relating to the issuing of prospectuses; (ii) rules relating to the detection and control of
insider trading and insider reporting; and (iii) increasing and streamlining the sentencing
powers of the Courts under the Act.
41.   The establishment of the Securities Commission closed the regulatory gap in the
capital markets that is not covered by the Bank of Jamaica. This should serve to ensure
greater transparency and integrity of the capital markets and therefore engender greater
confidence.
Investment Procedures
42.   The Government undertook a series of reforms in this area, aimed at attracting
new sustainable investment and stimulating local investment. GOJ adopted the principles
for investment regulation without discretionary review and a simplification of the
investment regime. As a result, concessions to investors based on a case-by-case
screening ceased in June 1994. Following this, the Cabinet approved in August 1994 a
"Negative List" which stated clearly the areas of investment that are restricted. Arising
from a brief study of investment incentives to evaluate their impact and appropriateness,
GOJ moved to develop uniform tax treatments such as the accelerated depreciation



13
scheme and to allow the operation of single-factory free zones. GOJ has also made
progress in simplifying exports to free zones . Effective October 1992, the Customs
Department relaxed the requirement for export entries to be produced for goods entering
the Free Zone from Customs territory subject only to the provision of invoices to Customs
and the Statistical Institute of Jamaica. In addition, there is no longer a requirement for
entries to be produced for source material entering and leaving the free zone.
43.   More recently through its National Industrial Policy, Government has indicated it
intention to re-orient fiscal incentives to make them: (1) more transparent, simple and
automatic; (2) more flexible so that a broader cross-section of firms can benefit from their
provisions; and (3) oriented equally to services, agriculture and manufacturing. Under the
National Industrial Policy, the Export Industry Encouragement Act (EIEA) will also be
amended to allow for a more flexible program of incentives consistent with international
rules. In the new policy approach GOJ will be re-orienting fiscal incentives to make them
performance-oriented.
44.   In May 1996, GOJ passed a bill to facilitate the creation of single-factory free
zones. The bill, "An Act to Amend the Jamaica Export Free Zones Act", is a part of the
process of moving away from conditional incentives and will widen the scope of the
existing free zones legislation by eliminating the location conditions. The administration
of the new single-entity free zones will be vested in "The Jamaica Free Zone Council"
consisting of representatives from the Government and the private sector. The Council is
empowered to designate areas of land, buildings or part of buildings as free zones,
approve and issue licenses, as well as supervise the operators in the designated free zones.
Export Procedures
45.   Under the PSDAL, the Government made concerted efforts to simplify export
procedures through the implementation of a documentation-based verification system and
the minimization of Customs involvement in export transactions. The success in this area
is confirmed by the Jamaica Exporters Association (JEA). All implicit taxes have been
removed from exports. A single-point clearance system was implemented in April 1993
allowing the processing of export documentation at the point of exportation. Export
documentation has also been reduced substantially by the introduction of a single export
clearance form -- Form C82. Customs examination of export shipments is made on a
random basis or in cases of drawback shipments or where drug contamination is
suspected. In May 1993, the Bureau of Standards ceased mandatory certification of
furniture manufactured in Jamaica replacing it with voluntary certification. In the area of
the accreditation of private labs to certify processed food for exports, very little progress
has been made. Although the Bureau of Standards have been working with a number of
private labs in setting standards, no private labs have formally applied for accreditation.
Another area where progress has been very slow is the computerization of export
procedures.



14
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
46.   Two major risks were identified in the implementation of the PSDAL. First,
limited flexibility in fiscal management due to economic vulnerability to external shocks
and the large debt overhang; and second, the social and political risk of an accelerated
privatization process involving the sugar and petroleum sectors. In the first instance there
was significant improvement in the fiscal accounts: tax collection improved, there was
better management of the interest payments BOJ losses were eliminated and expenditure
was better controlled. As a result, the overall public sector balance moved from a surplus
of 2% of GDP in FY 1992/93 to a surplus of 4.2% in FY 1993/94 and 4.7% in FY
1994/95. In addition, the downtrend in oil prices and the improved management of the
external debt contributed to minimizing the implementation risks. The relative
transparency and wide consultations involved in the privatization of the sugar industry
helped to significantly minimize the social and political risk of the privatization resulting in
an outstanding performance on the sugar privatization. The pace of implementation of the
sugar privatization actually exceeded original expectations.
47.   Although there was a very strong ownership of the overall reform program there
was nevertheless weak ownership of specific reforms in two areas. First, in the trade
reform program there was weak ownership of the condition relating to the elimination of
agricultural stamp duties possibly due to strong opposition from farmer groups. Second,
in the Customs Reform program, there was weak ownership of the implementation of a
duty-suspension regime. The weak ownership of the duty-suspension regime resulted
from fear of the adverse revenue implications at a time when the government was
attempting to pull the fiscal account out of deficit.
48.   There is no doubt that both the Bank and GOJ were overly optimistic in terms of
the time-frame estimated for the completion of the reform program including the two
detailed Action Plans. The extension of the completion date of the loan by one year
reflected this realization.
49.   The speed of implementation was also affected by the generally weak relationship
between the Government and the private sector. In many cases much time was spent in
trying to build mutual trust between the two partners to ensure private sector ownership
of the reforms. In this regard, the Bank stressed the need for transparency in all areas of
the reform program and, particularly, in the privatization program. There is no question
for example, that the high level of transparency which was involved in the privatization of
the sugar mills contributed to the success of this process.
50.   It has been argued that the large number of detailed conditions attached to the loan
was a major source of frustration for the government and therefore hampered the
implementation of the reforms. It was not the number of conditions or even the fact that
they were detailed per se that created the frustration for Government. What generated the
frustration was the fact that the same legal weight was attached by the Bank to all actions
to be carried out. Therefore the 8 conditions and 2 action plans for second tranche,



15
translated to 56 specific legal actions, each equal in weight, presenting very little flexibility
for the Government.
51.   The pace of implementation of the reforms was also adversely affected by political
changes. For example, there was a change of Finance Minister soon after the loan was
negotiated. The political changes led to a change of counterpart at the Planning Institute
of Jamaica (PIOJ). Within the Bank, there were also changes of task managers and
country economist during the implementation of the reform program which negatively
affected the momentum.
52.   The implementation delays experienced in some areas were mostly due to poor
coordination, lack of focus and shortage of human resources on the side of the GOJ. In
the area of privatization for example, the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ) did
not play as effective a role as coordinator as was envisaged at the outset. This resulted in
information gaps and delays on privatization activities undertaken by other agencies such
as the Urban Development Corporation and sector ministries. The poor technical capacity
of the NEBJ resulted not only from the lack of adequate systems, but also from the high
turnover of professional staff. With the change of leadership at the NIBJ, the institution
appeared to have lost some of its focus on privatization. In the Customs Reform
component, the computerization of customs has been hampered by inefficient procurement
and shortage of skilled personnel.
53.   The need to have legislative approval in a number of reform areas also resulted in
some delays. For example, in the area of capital market reforms, the unanticipated need to
amend the Securities Commission Act delayed the licensing and registration of participants
within the securities industry. In this instance, the Bank should have done a more
thorough job of reviewing the Act, which was passed as a first tranche condition. Also the
new Companies Act was delayed by the slow legislative process.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
54.   Government's ownership of the reforms, the positive fiscal impact, the significant
legislative and institutional changes in some areas as well as the significant improvement in
Customs services to exporters and importers are strong positive factors impacting on the
sustainability of the reforms. The privatization program has resulted in a substantial
easing of the pressures on the budget for financing of loss-making enterprises and in fact,
some enterprises have begun to generate profits thereby contributing to revenue. The
privatization of the sugar industry has resulted in increased private sector investment in the
industry and a substantial improvement in production was achieved for the 1995/96 crop.
The impact that the Fair Trading Commission and the Securities Commission have made in
addressing the complaints from the public have built enough social capital to ensure their
sustainability. The reforms in trade, Customs and export procedures are all expected to
provide sustained benefits as well as a model for future institutional reforms in other areas.



16
55.   Perhaps the only area of reform where there is some risk of reversal of the reform
is in the trade area, primarily due to the lowering of tariffs. There are already strong calls
for the protection of Jamaican farmers by increasing tariffs. This call also comes against
the background of a significant increase in the merchandise and current account deficits
during 1995 making the imposition of increased tariffs very tempting. Mitigating against
such actions, however are Jamaica's commitments under GATT. The GOJ may, however
have legitimate use for imposing duties in the cases of dumping which is adversely
affecting domestic industries as is alleged in the dairy industry.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
56.   The Bank's perfornance during preparation and implementation of the project was
satisfactory. The Bank played a major catalytic role in helping to define the reform
objectives through the establishment of close Bank-GOJ dialogue on a comprehensive
Medium-Term Reform Program. In the implementation of the reform, the Bank provided
technical assistance in some critical areas including; the formulation and drafting of
amendments and regulation to the Securities Act; the conduct of an Investment Incentives
Diagnostic Study; providing critical comments on the new Companies Act.
57.   The Bank also contributed significantly to the analysis of the impact of the
privatization of monopoly enterprises. This analysis highlighted the need for an overall
regulatory framework to ensure that consumer welfare was not sacrificed. The Bank also
provided a strong team to work in the area of trade reform. This team was instrumental in
the building up of private sector ownership of the reform in this area.
58.   The supervision missions provided the opportunity for the Bank team to have
intense dialogue with the GOJ counterpart, thereby anticipating issues/problems and
flagging them for early actions. Given however, the recognition by the Bank and the GOJ
of the complex nature of the reform program and the realization that there was slow
progress in a number of key areas more intensive supervision may have been warranted
early on in the project implementation period.
59.   The change of task management during the implementation of the project did
affect the momentum of the project, although the original Task Manager was closely
involved and consulted throughout the process. The building of working relationships
between new task managers and government agencies responsible for implementation
takes time. In addition, the change in task manager affected the dialogue with the private
sector that was an integral part of building ownership for the reforms within the private
sector.
60.   The establishment of the Bank's Resident Mission in Jamaica in March 1994
contributed significantly to the efficient monitoring and supervision of the program of
reform. The building and maintenance of continuous dialogue and working closely with
the counterparts contributed to Government's completion of the reforn program.



17
61.   In the design and implementation of the PSDAL, the Bank has coordinated closely
with the IDB and the IMF to ensure consistency between the Bank program, the IDB
Trade, Finance and Investment Sector Loan (TFISL) and the Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) from the International Monetary Fund, which was in effect from December 1992 to
December 1995 . In fact, certain targets relating to macroeconomic performance,
including those for fiscal surplus and reserve requirements for commercial and merchant
banks, were agreed under the IMF's program. In addition, a rescheduling agreement
concluded with the Paris Club also contributed to the reduction of the risks related to the
large debt overhang.
62.   Perhaps the Coordination with the IDB could have been more effective if the two
projects were more synchronized in their implementation, thereby making policy dialogue
and monitoring easier for the Bank and the government.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
63.   As stated earlier, the Government demonstrated a very high level of commitment
to the implementation of the Project. The commendable implementation performance
reflected the overall strong ownership of the reforms and the commitment to create an
econornic environment conducive to private sector led growth and development. Even
though the 10 conditions of the second tranche (8 specific conditions and 2 action plans)
translated to some 56 specific actions, Government was resolute in its effort to complete
all actions. In the end, only two waivers were required for second tranche release. The
first waiver pertains to the agreed phase out of certain stamp duties on agricultural
products and the second waiver relates to the promulgation of the securities regulation.
64.   In some key areas such as the sugar privatization and the establishment of the Fair
Trading Commission, the pace of implementation exceeded original expectation. The
Government was quick to act on the recommendation and advice of Bank stafflconsultant
and to avail themselves of the technical assistance offered in order to speed up
implementation.
65.   The Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) played a critical role in coordinating the
initial actions on the privatization of the sugar mills as well as in the area of trade reform.
The strong team at the PIOJ therefore complemented the strong Bank team. Perhaps if an
implementation unit for the project was established within the PIOJ, the implementation of
the reforms would have been smoother and faster.
66.   In areas where implementation has been relatively slow, this did not reflect a lack
of commitment of GOJ's part but rather the lack of proper coordination, lack of focus, the
slow pace of legislative actions or in some cases the lack of skilled personnel as was the
case in the computerization of customs. The lack of capacity, coordination and focus was
demonstrated by the fact that while Government agreed/committed in principle to certain
actions, there was little or no detailed follow-up either because no specific agency was
designated or because the designated agency did not have the capacity.



18
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
67.   The successful implementation of the Private Sector Development Adjustment
Loan played a critical role in Jamaica's policy adjustment program. The PSDAL program
resulted in the consolidation of Jamaica's structural adjustment efforts in several areas
including; privatization, deregulation, trade and Custom reform, legal/institutional
framework for business, legal framework for competition and simplification of the
investment and export procedure. Accelerated privatization efforts have resulted in
significantly less pressure on the budget to finance loss-making public enterprises.
Consequently, the budget realized a surplus of 4.7% of GDP in 1994/95 and the surplus
for 1995/96 was 2.3% of GDP. In addition, more resources are made available for the
social sectors including education and health. At the same time, privatized entities such as
the sugar factories and Air Jamaica have seen significant injections of capital from the
private sector.
68.   The reforms in Customs administration have already resulted in a significant
improvement in the processing of imports and exports. The reduction of tariffs and
increased transparency in the operations have resulted in increased compliance and an
improvement in revenues. It appears that simplification of export procedures is impacting
positively on exporters. In 1994, exports increased by 13% and by 17% in 1995. In
addition, the Jamaica Exporters' Association (JEA) has publicly complimented the
Government on the customs reform.
69.   The reforms in the legal, regulatory and institutional framework are already
impacting the economy in a significant way. For example, number of cases successfully
handled by the Fair Trading Commission and the Securities Commission as well as the
number of new complaints are clear testimonies of the commitment to maintain a dynamic
and competitive market place.
70.   As a result of the reform, the role of the Government is more focused, the business
environment in Jamaica is much more transparent and competitive and the framework has
been created for the development of dynamic and competitive private sector. Given that
the gains from the reform are quite obvious to the Government and the private sector,
there is very little risk of reversal.
L FUTURE OPERATIONS.
71.   After discussions with the GOJ, and at their request, the Bank has agreed that no
more adjustment operations will be planned for the forseable future. The IMF accord also
ceased on September 1995. However, activities aiming at the modernization and
restructuring of the public sector and the promotion of private sector activities are
ongoing. The Private Investment and Export Development Project (approved in 1994)
aims to accelerate internationally competitive investments and exports of Jamaican private
enterprises through improvements in export support systems and financial sector support
for investment and trade finance. The Board recently approved an investment loan to help



19
restructure and modernize several ministries and privatize state-owned enterprises.
Finally, the current lending program includes preparing a project to help strengthen the
capacity of Jamaica's new regulatory agency and promote the private provision of
infrastructure through a special finance facility.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.
72.   One of the main lessons learned from the loan is that a key element for the success
of any major adjustment program is strong ownership on the part of the government. In
this regard, the program of reform should build strongly on the Policy Framework agreed
with the government. Strong ownership ensures strong commitment to the reform and
minimizes the risk of reversal, particularly in the face of politically unpopular reforms.
73.   A high level of transparency and public education (through NGOs for example)
can help to build social and political capital that will not only assist in the speedy
implementation of the project, but will also ensure greater sustainability. In many cases
this social capital could prove to be of immense and lasting benefit in the general
development process. Since a major raison d'etre of the Bank is catalyzing the process of
development, it is clear that every opportunity to build social capital must be seized. This
was the key lessons learned both in the privatization of the sugar factories as well as in the
establishment of the Fair Trading Commission.
74.   Detailed action plans can be very helpful "road maps" to achieve practical results
on the ground. The detailed action plans can help to enhance the speed and effectiveness
of implementation through the identification of complementary or conflicting tasks or the
optimal sequencing of tasks. They also provide very tangible basis for measuring
achievements. However, in this latter regard there is need for flexibility on the part of
Bank staff and management in the judgment of the "achievements" to ensure that these
useful "road maps" do not become "legal millstones". For example, assigning equal legal
weight to each specific action in a plan minimizes the incentive to be detailed in the
planning of the reform program and eliminates necessary flexibility. Such flexibility will
also enable the Bank to modify the assessments of achievements without compromising
the primary objectives of the reform. Perhaps one approach is for the Bank and the
Borrower to agree, a priori, on a list of critical items which would be the minimum
acceptable conditions to be expressed as such in the Loan Agreement.
75.   Another key lesson learned is that the Bank should appraise carefully not only a
Government's commitment to a reform program, but also its institutional capacity to
implement it. This will assist the Bank and borrowers to identify weaknesses early on and
facilitate either the prerequisite or companion technical assistance to build implementation
capacity. In particular, the Bank should assess very carefully the scope of actions to be
carried out under a project to establish a realistic time-frame for the completion.
76.   On public sector and institutional reform, the successful execution of the Custom
reform and the establishment of the Fair Trading Commission in Jamaica provides a useful



20
case study. They demonstrate that a clear focus on objectives, clarity regarding
targets/performance indicators, strong government commitment and willingness to give
the agencies the necessary autonomy (following the Executive Agency model) can
together provide the combination of ingredients necessary for successful institutional
reform even in historically challenging areas.
77.   A positive lesson for the Bank arising from the successful privatization of the sugar
mills is that proper sequencing of reform---creating the regulatory framework before
privatization--can play a major role in determining the success and sustainability of the
reform.



21
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial Negligible    Not applicable
(/1)        (1)                 (1)
Macro policies                  0            El Ol
Sector policies                 itEl                             El
Financial objectives            O            El
Institutional development       0            [1                  [1
Physical objectives             El           El                  e
Poverty reduction               El           El                  0
Gender issues                   El           El 
Other social objectives         El           El                  0
Environmental objectives        El           El                  0
Public sector management                     El                  El
Private sector development      0            El                  El
Other (specify)                 E            E                    l
B. Project sustainability    Likely    Unlikely    Uncertain
(/)         (/)          (/)
0           El           El0



22
HiEghly
C. Bank performance        Satisfactory        Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)                 (/)          (1)
Identification             RI                  f            O
Preparation assistance     R I                              O
Appraisal                  Il                               E [l
Supervision               El                   I            O
Highly
D. Borrower performance   satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)          (/)          (/)
Preparation                El           O            O
Implementation             E l                       O
Covenant compliance       O              t           Ol
Operation (if applicable)    Ol        El            El
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of outcome  satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
(a/)         0/)          (a/)                 LI



23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                      Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Structural        Aimed at fostering export-led growth and the    1982        Fully
Adjustment Loan I    private sector through attention on: public sector         disbursed
(2105-JM)            savings, restructuring of public investment to favor
infrastructure, and deregulation
2. Technical         To support the SAP program of GOJ and the SAL   1982         Fully
Assistance Loan      of 1982 through the provision of consultants for           disbursed
(2106-JM)            studies and high-level experts for key advisory
positions and training for local managers.
3. Structural        Structural Adjustment II was intended to deepen  1983        Fully
Adjustment Loan II   initiatives undertaken under SAL I with the                disbursed
(2315-JM)            additional inclusion of action programs to improve
public administration.
4. Structural        To continue the structural adjustment process and  1984      Fully
Adjustment III (2478-  include criteria for financial performance of public     disbursed
JM)                  enterprises, a new energy program, budgetary
reforms, a revised PSIP and enhancement of export
development programs.
5. Second Technical   To provide consultants, equipment and training  1985        Fully
Assistance Loan      for: (a) institutional development, (b) export             disbursed
(2507-JM)            promotion, and (c) human resources development.
6. Trade and Finance  To support ongoing Structural Adjustment and   1987         Fully
Sector Adjustment    Stabilization Programs as revised to take into             disbursed
Loan I 2848-JM       account recommendations of the IMF, IBRD and
USAID Tripartite Commission that visited
Jamaica in 1985-86. principal foci included efforts
to simplify tariff system and reduce non-tariff
barriers, separating monetary and fiscal policy,
eliminating financial market distortions, and
creating the institutional and fiscal environment to
strengthen capital market.
7. Public Enterprise   The objectives of the loan were to support the SAP  1987   Fully
Sector Adjustment    of the GOJ by improving the fiscal performance of          disbursed
Loan -PESAL (2849-  enterprises through improved monitoring and
JM)                  control, improved operating balances, the
elimination of government arrears, and a reduction
in the size and scope of the public sector.



24
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                    Year of         Status
approval
8. Agricultural Sector  The purpose of this loan was to support GOJ  1990   Fully disbursed
Adjustment Loan    ongoing program of adjustment through
(3174-JM)       improvements in the sector incentives
framework, continuation of the divestiture
process, and assistance in establishing an
institutional basis for dealing with the
improper use of pesticides.
9. Second Trade and  To strengthen and deepen initiatives and    1991      Fully disbursed
Finance Sector    reform efforts begun under TFSAL I
Adjustment Loan
(3303_JM)
Following Operations
1. Jamaica-Private   The objective of this loan is to help accelerate  1994  Disbursing
Investment & Export  internationally competitive investments and
Development Project  exports of Jamaican private enterprises
(3720-JM)       through improvements in the exports support
systems and financial sector support for
investment and trade finance.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project Cycle           Date planned       Date actual/latest
estimate
Preparation                               June 1991        June 1991-Oct 1991
Pre-appraisal                          December 1991         December 3-10,
1991
Appraisal                             February 24, 1992    Mar.30 - Apr. 10,
1992
Negotiation                               May, 1993           May 5-7,1993
Letter of development policy              May 1993            May 25, 1993
Board Presentation                        June, 1993          June 15, 1993
Signing                                   June, 1993          June 22,1993
Effectiveness                             June, 1993          June 25,1993
First Tranche Release                     June, 1993           June, 1993
Second tranche Release                   March 1994        September 27, 1995
Loan Closing                          December 31, 1994   December 31, 1995



25
Table 4: Credit Disbursement, Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
FY 93                  FY 94                    FY95                   FY 96
Appraisal estimate                     40.0                    75.0                    75.0                    75.0
Actual                                 40.0                    40.0                    40.0                     75
Actual as % of                       100.0%                   53.3%                  53.3%                   100.0%
estimate
Date of final                                                                                           September 27,
disbursement                                                                                                   1995
Table 5:
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(See also Table 10)
1980-86    1987-89       1990        1991         1992          1994         1992        1994
(average)   (average)   (actual)    (actual)   (estimate     (Projection.    (actual)    (actual)
from             from
Presidents     Presidents
Report)         Report)
Real Growth rate
GDP                                -0.5        4.1         3.8         0.8          2.0           4.0          1.4         0.8
Per Capita GDP                     -1.8        3.5         2.9        -1.0          0.5           2.4          0.5        -0.2
Savings and Investment
Domestic Saving/GDP                15.3       23.4        19.0        20.3         28.0          28.6         20.3        18.8
Gross InvestmentlGDP               20.9       22.4        20.9         19.8        22.0          22.0         19.3        22.0
Public Sector (% of GDP) (FY)
Central Gov. Balance              -10.8       -1.5         1.5         3.9          4.0           4.0          2.9         3.0
Overall Public Sector Balance     -14.3       -8.0        -2.9        -0.4          0.1           2.8          3.9         4.2
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Resource Balance                   -5.7        1.0         -2.0        0.5          6.0           6.6          1.0        -3.4
Current Account Balance          -10.9        -7.2       -10.7        -8.9         -4.0         -1.1          0.3         0.5
Prices (FY)
CPI(endofperiod,%change)          17.4        13.5        28.3       105.7         25.0          4.6          21.1        21.2
Real Exchange Rate                89.6       69.0        65.8        44.8         53.7          53.7         57.9        60.3
(1980=100)
Creditworthiness Indicators
TotalDOD/GDP(%)                  121         134         111         127          136           114         117.8        90.4
Total Debt Service/Export         33          37          31         31           27            20            27         20.0
Interest/Exports                 17          13          12          10           10             7           10           7
InteresVGDP                      9           7           7           7            7             7            7           5



26
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(see Tables 5 & 10)
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study         Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status      Impact of Study
or when added to project
1 Tariff Impact Study  To assess the impact of the impact  Completed  Used as a basis for the
of the first phase of the tariff   1994    removal of CET on non-
reform.                                    competing imports.
2 Investment          To evaluate the impact of        Completed  Used as the basis for
Incentives         incentive regimes and their      December  significant reform of the
Diagnostic study    importance.                       1993    incentive regime including
Accelerated depreciation
on capital goods, and the
amendment to the Export
Industry Encouragement
Act.
3 Impact of Removal  To evaluate the impact of the     Completed  Used as the basis for a
of Stamp Duties on  removal of stamp duties on certain    August  longer phase out of stamp
the Agricultural    agricultural commodities           1995    duties on some sensitive
Sector                                                         agricultural items such as
beef and pork as well as
the accelerated removal of
stamp duties on some
poultry products as well
as some soya based
_____________________________   __________   products.
4 Assessment of the    Study commissioned by GOJ done  Completed  Provided support for the
Effects of         by the FAO to provide GOJ with a    April   decision of a longer phase
Structural         feedback on the structural         1995    out period for stamp
Adjustment on the    adjustment process to data and            duties on some sensitive
Agricultural Sector  with information to facilitate its        agricultural products
decisions on the future
development of the agricultural
sector.
5 A Review of Tax    To assess the various tax         Completed  Used as the basis for the
Incentives Relating   incentives applicable to financial   November  broadening of the base for
to Financial       instruments in Jamaica and          1994    withholding tax on interest
Instruments in     recommend approaches which                  and, improving the
Jamaica with       could be pursued in order to revise         incentives for investment
Proposals for      the system and streamline the               in longer-term government
Streamlining Where  range of tax incentives applicable         securities.
Considered         to savings
necessary



27
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$'000)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
1. First Tranche                           40,000                         40,000
2. Second Tranche                          35,000                         35,000
TOTAL                            75,000                          75,000
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$'000)
Source                       Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
IBRD                          75,000                         75,000
TOTAL                          75,000                          75,000
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not Applicable)
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants
Section  I Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Description of covenant                       Comments
Type      Status      date
3.04         2          C                  Assessment of phase 1 of CET implementation
based on indicators for total export, import of
investment goods, supply (investment) response
and export response.
Schedule 4      3         CP       04/01/94   All stamp duties on agricultural products shall  Waiver
#1.                                       have been eliminated, except for the products   granted
listed in schedule 5 to this agreement.
Schedule 4      1          C       Starting   The Action plan for Customs Reform shall have
#2.                            04/01/93   been implemented and the targets therein set forth
related to processing time, revenue collection and
quality and quantity of services concerning
exports, imports and passengers shall have been
met
Schedule 4      1          C       01/01/94   The actions to increase the productivity and
#3.                                       efficiency of the sugar sector set forth in the
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated May 25, 1993
shall have been implemented.
Schedule 4      1          C        04/94    The Borrower shall have funished to the Bank a
#4. (a)                                     list of the Public Entities in the productive,
commercial and services sectors, excluding the
bauxite sector, representing more than 50% (fifty
percent) of the total asset value of the Public



28
Entities in such sectors, selected by the Borrowers
to be privatized during the years 1994 to 1996.
Schedule 4      1         C         04/94    The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank a
#4. (b)                                     list of the Public Entities that are companies
controlled by the Borrower, selected on the basis
of the criteria set forth in the Borrower's letter to
the Bank of even date herewith, for which the
respective liquidators have been appointed.
Schedule 4      1         C                  PETROJAM, all publicly-owned sugar mills and
#4. (c)                                     at least 20 other Public Entities shall have been
Brought to the Point of sale.
Schedule 4      1         C                  Progress has been achieved in the implementation
#4. (d)                                     of a restructuring and/or privatization program for
JRC, to be adopted by the Borrower based on the
reconmnendations of the studies in the
transportation sector in Jamaica that are being
carried out by the Borrower.
Schedule 4      1         C                  The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank:
#5.                                       (a) an assessment of its tax incentives for financial
instruments; and (b) based on the assessment
referred to above, a plan of action to revise the
taxation system to streamline the tax incentives
for financial instruments, to be implemented in
the fiscal year succeeding that of such plan.
Schedule 4      1         CP       started    The regulation of the securities Act shall have  Waiver
#6. (a)                           03/94    been put into effect.                           granted
Schedule 4      1         C         12/93    The Securities Comnuission shall have been
#6_ (b)                                     established.
Schedule 4      1         CP        06/94    The regulations of the Securities Act for stock  Waiver
#6. (c)                                     exchanges shall have been put into effect to   granted
increase competition among brokers, including,
but not limited to, the elimination of the existing
barriers to entry and exit and the requirements of
adequate transparency and disclosure of stock
exchange transactions.
Schedule 4      1         C         03/93    The regulations of the Competition Act shall have
#7. (a)                                     been put into effect.
Schedule 4      1         C         09/93    The FTC shall have been established.
#7. (b)
Schedule 4      1        CD         09/95    A bill revising the Companies act, aiming at the
#8.                                       modernization of the business environment and
the facilitation of the operations, constitution,
reorganization and liquidation of companic3, shall
have been submitted to the Borrower's Parliament
for approval.
Schedule 4      1         C                  The Action Plan for Simplifying Investment and
#9.     _                                 Export Procedures shall have been implemented.
Schedule 4     4          C       08/08/95   Not withstanding the provisions of Sections 3.03
#10.                                      ((b) (ii) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
have furnished to the Bank a certified copy of the
audit report referred to in Section 3.03 9b) (I) of
this Agreement in respect of the expenditure
financed out of the proceeds of the first Tranche.



29
Covenant Types                                               Present status
1 = Implementation arrangements              C = Covenant Complied with
2 = Studies/technical assistance             CD   Complied with after delay
3 = Sector policy                             CP   Complied with partially
4 = accounts/audit
Schedule 5
1.     Peanut                                        2.      Onion
3.     Potato (Irish)                                4.      Red Peas
5.     Tomato                                        6.      Sweet Pepper
7.      Carrots                                      8.      Cabbage
9.      Whole Broiler                                10.    Chicken Wings, Leg
Quarters, Leg, Thigh and
Drumsticks
11.    Eggs, other than for hatching purposes        12.    String Beans
13.    Fixed Vegetable oil fluid or solid,           14.    Soya meal and its substitutes
crude refined or purified                     15.    Soya bean oil
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(There was no case of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(USS'OOO)
Stage of project         Planned                    Revised                     Actual
cycle
Weeks         US$         Weeks          USS         Weeks          USS
Through appraisal    N/A                                                  135.7         334.5
Appraisal through    N/A                                                   14.4         42.6
Board approval
Board approval      N/A                                                   N/A          N/A
through
effectiveness
Supervision       N/A                                                   56.95         152
Completion        N/A                                                    5.3          4.0



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/Year    Number  Days in Field        Specialized               Performance Rating
Cycle                           of Staff                      Skills           Implementation   Development
Status          Impact
Preparation      06/91          5         13                  a,g,d,h
10/91          6         14                  a,b,i,j,
08/92          3         13                  a,k
Appraisal        04/92          9         12                  a,b,e,k,m
Appraisal -      04/92          2         3                   a,m
Board Approval
Supervision     07/93           1         0                   a                I 1
01/94          6         6                   a,b,f,d,k,l      2                2
05/94          6         12                  a,b,c,d,e        2                2
05/94          1                             a                S                S
08/94          1         N/A(n)              a                S                S
05/96          2         N/A(n)              l,k              S                S
06/96          1         N/A(n)              a                S                S
Specialized Skills
a..     Task Manager                                               Export Development Specialist
b.      Privatization Specialist                          k        Consultant
c.      Financial Sector Specialist                       1        Resident Representative
d       Investment / Customs Specialist                   m        Division Chief
e.      Securities Specialist
f.      Environmental Specialist
g.      Legal Specialist
h.      Regulatory environment Specialist
i.      Public Enterprise Analyst



31
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
ICR
C. INTRODUCTION
The Government of Jamaica's (GOJ) comments are principally intended to provide an
accurate assessment of the performance of the GOJ and the Bank in meeting the objectives
established under the PSDAL agreement. The comments also serve to highlight a number
of important lessons that have been learnt in the execution of the agreement and to bring
into sharp focus some of the problems of development that are not easily addressed in a
context where there is inflexibility in the imposition of conditionalities on recipient
governments.
B. BACKGROUND AND LOAN CONTEXT
The negotiation of the PSDAL agreement in May 1993 occurred against the backdrop of
the many sector adjustment loan agreements that the GOJ had previously concluded with
the World Bank. Beginning in 1981 the Government and the Bank embarked on a series
of Agricultural, Administrative, Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment loans designed to
assist the GOJ in carrying out a program of structural adjustment and macroeconomic
stabilization from which would follow a sustainable program of economic growth and
development. These adjustment loans had, as primary areas of focus, reforms aimed inter
alia at (a) improving fiscal and monetary policies, (b) transforming trade policies, (c)
increasing administrative efficiency within the state sector, (d) removing price and
exchange rate controls and eliminating subsidies, (e) creating a competitive business
regulatory environment, (f) downsizing the government and (g) privatizing certain public
enterprises.
The programs were carried out within a context of instability of the country's exchange
rate, increasing levels of inflation, mounting external debt, deterioration in the country's
terms of trade, low levels of output growth, and worsening fiscal deficits. Much of this
economic disequilibria were brought forward from the 1980s, and characterized the
environment within which the PSDAL was negotiated.
The PSDAL agreement was a carry over of much of the incomplete activities under the
previous agreements and was designed to complete the adjustment process. The explicit
objective of the agreement was to assist the GOJ in its efforts at consolidating the
structural adjustment process to restore macroeconomic stability and promote economic
growth. Faced with a precarious and vulnerable economic situation the GOJ approached
the Bank for a loan of US$75 million to provide Balance of Payment support while these
reform efforts were being undertaken. This loan was specifically targeted at (i)
maintaining a sound macroeconomic policy framework, (ii) reforming trade policies and
customs procedures, (iii) deregulating aspects of domestic productive activities, (iv)



32
privatizing a number of public enterprises, and (v) reforming the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework for economic activity.
C. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
In 1996 the GOJ successfully completed the 1993/94-1995/96 Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) with the International Monetary Fund, thereby bringing to a close 18 years of
borrowing programs with that institution. These programs have been broadly satisfactory
in reversing some of the macroeconomic imbalances in the Jamaican economy. Fiscal and
monetary discipline have contributed to a slowing of the rate of inflation and have helped
in restoring macroeconomic stability and greater confidence in the economy.
As a result of better fiscal management, the overall public sector surplus in FY94/95 stood
at 4.7% of GDP, or 1.3% above the projected target. After over a decade of negative Net
International Reserves (NIR), the NIR advanced close to US$500 million at the end of
March 1996. Higher levels of export growth, transfers and private capital flows, against
slowing imports, resulted not only in the improvement in the NIR, but also in the
significant improvements in the External Current Account.
The rate of exchange of the country's currency has remained fairly stable against the US
dollar. This has been supported by continued strong inflows from private transfers, tight
fiscal and monetary policies, as well as the reduction in the Central Bank's purchases from
the foreign exchange market as a consequence of its high level of reserves.
Challenges
In the latter half of 1995/96 the GOJ had to resort to a further tightening of monetary and
fiscal policies in order to correct the macroeconomic imbalances which had re-surfaced,
and which were primarily the result of excess monetary growth fueled by the increased
liquidity generated by the NIR accumulation and injections of capital from the Central
Bank into banking institutions that were in crisis. The maintenance of a sound and tight
monetary and fiscal regime remains as one of the major objectives and challenges of the
Government as it seeks to promote stability and confidence in the economy.
The GOJ has established as part of its medium to long term economic program (a) the
reduction and containment of inflation to a range of between 11- 15% per annum, (b) the
maintenance of tight and consistent monetary and fiscal policies, and (c) the promotion of
policies and programs that will help in reducing the Balance of Payments deficit.
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
The PSDAL agreement was negotiated in May 1993 and the First Tranche of US$40
million was disbursed in June 1993 after the GOJ had successfully complied with all
conditions precedent to loan effectiveness. The Second Tranche of US$35 million was
originally scheduled to be disbursed in March 1994 but the actual release was not effected



33
until September 1995 due to a number of difficulties that were encountered in the
implementation of some of the conditionalities for this Tranche. Overall the GOJ is
satisfied that the objectives of the loan were met, and that both the Bank and the
Government worked diligently and with good intent to accomplish these objectives.
Achievements
In spite of the many difficulties faced by the GOJ in meeting the Second Tranche
conditionalities, mainly as a result of its limited resources, improper coordination, and the
under-estimation of the enormity of the scope of activities in the loan agreement, the GOJ
was successful in meeting all conditions with the exception of two for which waivers were
requested and obtained from the Bank. The Sugar Sector Deregulation program, a main
component of the agreement, was accomplished ahead of schedule, while the
establishment of the Fair Trading Commission and the passing of regulations to guide its
operations were also effected expeditiously. The GOJ succeeded in the privatization of
Air Jamaica and the National Commercial Bank, and in bringing to the point of sale
Petrojam and forty (40) small and medium-sized entities. With the involvement of the
Ministry of Industry, Investment and Commerce, JAMPRO and the Custom's Department,
major reforms were undertaken in the areas of trade and investment policies, including the
reduction of tariffs under the CET, the elimination of agricultural stamp duties on a
number of commodities, and changes to many trade and investment regulations. The
simplification of customs procedures and the modernization and computerization of the
Customs Department were also undertaken.
Difficulties
The GOJ had difficulty, however, with several aspects of the loan conditionalities. These
included:
* Privatization: (i) definition of "bringing to the point of sale": It was the understanding
of the GOJ that "bringing to the point of sale" was the broad definition underlying the
Bank's conditionality for privatization and much discussion ensued prior to the
satisfactory resolution of this issue; (ii) the number of enterprises to be privatized: The
GOJ had always felt that the number of enterprises to be privatized would place a
considerable strain on its resources, nevertheless the GOJ worked assiduously to meet
the Bank's conditionality.
* Legal and Regulatory Framework: Two of the conditionalities of the loan were the
amendment of the Company's Act and the drafting of the regulations under the
Securities Act. The amendment of the Company's Act was achieved, however, this
was at the cost of considerable GOJ resources which had to be expended in order to
complete the exercise in the time-frame given. The Bank's assistance was sought for
the promulgation of regulations under the Securities Act, which were passed by the
legislature. In a later assessment of the contents of the legislation, it was decided that
the enactment of other facilitating amendments to the Act was needed. This could not
be done in time to meet the Bank's deadline, hence a waiver was requested and
obtained.



34
*  The Government also requested a waiver of the condition requiring the elimination of
all stamp duties on agricultural products with exception for a few sensitive products
agreed with the Bank. The request for a waiver was based on the GOJ's contention
that under the Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations agreement was reached which
allowed countries ten (10) years to phase out additional agricultural stamp duties. In
negotiating the PSDAL agreement the schedule for GOJ reduction and removal of
these duties was made contingent on the GATT agreement and on its adoption in the
policies and practices of other countries.
The completion of these activities has helped in the transformation of both the State sector
and the economy, and marks a major milestone in the country's adjustment process. The
Government is committed to continuing the reform process - and the privatization and
deregulation, trade and investment, financial sector and other reforms programs are
presently still ongoing. The Government's recent National Industrial Policy provides the
framework for the continuation of the GOJ's adjustment and development thrust and
brings within its ambit many of the items of trade and investment policy, fiscal incentives
etc. that were included in previous adjustment loans.
The GOJ's Performance
There is no doubt that the PSDAL agreement contained many design flaws and that the
time-frames established for its implementation were over-optimistic. One of the main
problems in this regard was the scope of the agreement, and here both the GOJ and the
Bank should share responsibility for a colossal loan agreement embracing: Macroeconomic
Policy, Trade Policy, Customs Reform, Sugar Sector Deregulation, Petroleum Sector
Deregulation, Privatization and Public Sector Reform, Capital Market Legal and
Institutional Framework, Competition Policy, Companies Act, and Simplification of
Administrative Procedures. In all the agreement contained eight (8) Conditions and two
(2) Action Plans which when delineated created fifty six (56) specific legal actions to be
taken! If the GOJ had understood at the outset that all of these actions and conditionalities
would have been assigned equal legal weight it is unlikely that the Government would
have agreed to all or would have established such an optimistic time-frame for their
implementation. The agreement also contained many ambiguities which resulted in
confusion and further impeded the GOJ in its efforts at completing the activities.
The GOJ also recognizes that greater consideration may have been given to the
involvement of local technical counterpart officers in the design, structure and
implementation schedule for the PSDAL agreement.
It is clear that many of the difficulties encountered in the execution of the agreement were
occasioned, on the Government's part, by (i) limited personnel and financial resources, (ii)
failure to establish an implementation unit with specific responsibility for executing the
agreement, and (iii) lack of communication and coordination among the various agents
responsible for implementing the agreement. On this latter point it should be noted that
many of the technical officers responsible for implementing aspects of the loan were either



35
unaware of this responsibility, or were unclear on what precisely needed to be done and
the time-frame within which it should have been accomplished.
The Bank's Performance
The Bank was also responsible for contributing to some of the problems encountered in
executing the loan. For example, the Bank's discovery that weak implementation capacity
significantly affected the GOJ's performance in executing the agreement highlights a very
common feature of most resource deficient economies where the World Bank and the IMF
have before imposed structural adjustment programs making heavy calls on the scant
resources of the public sector of these countries. That the Bank should have been
cognizant of this history and experience, even through its previous work in Jamaica, and
should therefore have undertaken an ex ante appraisal of the GOJ's implementation
capacity, rather than being content in making ex post observations on the reasons why
targets are not achieved, was to have been expected. The Bank should, therefore, have
also taken greater care in rigorously evaluating the objectives of the loan, the various
conditions set for meeting these objectives, and the time-frame established for
implementation.
The GOJ believes that the supervision missions carried out by the Bank were poorly
timed and substantially ineffective in assisting the Government in carrying out the reform
process. These supervision missions should have been timed at closer intervals to
facilitate ongoing communication which was crucial given the magnitude of the tasks and
the required coordination effort. In the area of Customs Reform, for example, the
infrequent visits by the Bank's customs specialist (located in London) resulted in
significant problems as the local customs officials needed to have more frequent dialogue
with this specialist in order to clarify some of the conditions in the Action Plan. The
change of the Bank's task managers twice in the project also significantly affected the
execution of the loan, and it was evident, at times, that the new task managers were
unfamiliar with many of the technical details of the conditionalities. It is to the Bank's
credit, however, that negotiated understandings could finally be reached on many of the
issues.
The eventual assignment of the task management responsibility to the Resident Mission
was a significant step taken by the Bank as it facilitated constant dialogue between the
GOJ's and the Bank's technical officers on the project. It is highly unlikely that Second
Tranche conditionalities would have been met within the extended period if this new
arrangement were not instituted. The technical nature of the agreement and the action
plans and the vast number of conditions necessitated this constant interaction to give
clarity and momentum to their execution.
The Bank was also very helpful in providing technical assistance in completing some of the
activities under the agreement.



36
Specific Concerns
Trade and Investment Reform
There are specific areas of the agreement that required changes to the GOJ's investment
policies, the enactment of new legislation and reform and reorientation of existing trade
and customs policies and procedures within one year. While the difficulties encountered in
satisfying these conditions reflect admitted weaknesses in the GOJ's implementation
capacity, they also raise other issues for the Bank. It must be stated that many of the
reform items were already on the GOJ's agenda and would have been undertaken
regardless of the agreement with the Bank. But the urge to create a liberalized economy,
if not approached with the necessary flexibility of thought and careful planning, can create
major problems for the strategic development planning process of recipient countries. The
danger of this inheres in the Bank's inflexible approach and is partially reflected in the
equal legal weight assigned to each of the 8 conditionalities and 56 activities contained in
the 2 Action Plans. This is seen, for example, in the condition in the PSDAL agreement
requiring the comprehensive removal of all Duty and GCT concessions on capital
equipment based on usage and user. The complete removal of these concessions would
effectively deprive the GOJ an essential tool to promote strategic investments.
Concessions provided under the "Approved Farmers" scheme and the Modernization of
Industry Scheme which are specifically targeted Government initiatives geared at fostering
investment and competitiveness in specific areas would be eliminated. To grant these
concessions on the basis of the nature of the capital equipment would have resulted in a
severely negative impact on the fiscal budget, and would also have effectively eroded the
investment incentive objective of these programs.
The action plans also contained activities many of which were inconsequential to achieving
the overall objectives of the agreement, but to which the Bank's task managers initially
adhered. Some of these minor conditions were found impracticable (such as the
replacement of export licensing with explicit export bans), while others perhaps either
should not have been included or else have had no legal import in a formal loan agreement
between a Government and an International Lending Agency.
E. CONCLUSION
While the objectives of the loan have been satisfactorily met, the GOJ's experience in
executing the loan and the difficulties encountered in meeting the numerous
conditionalities specified in the agreement, has served to reinforce the Government's
decision not to negotiate any other Balance of Payment support loan, and also not to
undertake any other ecumenical project agreement treating with such wide ranging and
disparate matters. The complexity of the agreement and the extensive scope of its
activities resulted in the Government being unable both to complete the activities within
the prescribed time and to draw down on the resources of the loan when it was required.



37
APPENDIX B: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
JAMAIC
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER OF FINANCE
30 NATIONAL HEROES CIRCLE,
P.O. BOX 512.
KINGSTON.
T.S.'n4 NC. 92..1E                              .                 ,      . .  :JAMAICA
:25 May 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
-  PRIEMAT  IE=TOR EVELOPUME  ADJUSTIIrf LOAN
1.EI'R OF DEVOP)NT POLICY
Dear Mr. Preston:
The Government.of Jamaict requests a World Bank -loan to support its
policy adjustment programme in order to achieve rapid and sustained growth
through private sector devolopment.
The objectives of the -rogramme are to successfully consolidate
JamaLca's decade-long structural cadjustment effort to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to restore the economV.i0 capacity to generate positive growth rates
on a sustained basis. It also aimrs :to create a business-friendly enavironment,
free of barriers to entry and eiccisuie reatrictions, ln which an efficient,
internationally and domstically ccrapetitlve. privae *sector can. become the engine
of growth. Additionally, the Government's role in thB economy will shift towards
a stronger focus on socLal sectors and infrastructure, by .reducing its direct
involvement in and ownership of commercially-oriented soctors. To achijee these
objectives, the Government'I reform programme focuses on macroeconomic policies,
trade reform,  deregulation,  a  faxr-taching  privatization programme and a
comprehensive set of legal, regulatory and administrative reforms of the business
environnt.



38
Macroeconomic Framework
The medium-term policy framework of the Government of JamaLca aims at
improving growth performance, reducing the rate of inflation in line with its
major trading partners, achieving a viable external position, and continuing to
enhance the environment for the rapid expansion Of private sector activities.
This framework is consistent with the Extended Fund Facility from the
International Monetary Fund, in effect from December 1992 to December 1995.
In accordance with its Medium-Term Framework Paper of May 1992, the
Government of Jamaica is pursuing policies to reduce regulation and state
intervention, while correcting financial imbalanSces.  In 1991, most remaining
restrictions affecting the foreign exchange system were removed, and a general
consumption (value added) tax was introduced to improve the tax system.  All
general subsidies were eliminated, and the pricing policy of the public sector
was adjusted in line with market forces. The overall operations of the public
sector were nearly balanced in FY1991/92, and achieved a modest surplus in
FY1992/93. While inflation soared to over six per cent per month in early 1992,
it fell quickly by the middle of the year and has averaged under one per cent
per month since January 1993  (10-15 per cent per year).   After a rapid
depreciation and brief recovery of the exchange rate following the liberalization
in September 1991, the value of the Jamaican dollar vis-a-vis the US dollar has
been stable since June 1992. These measures resulted in slower growth in real
GDP, 0.8 per cent in FY1991/92 and about two per cent in FY1992/93. However,
the medium-term economic programme projects the growth rate to be above three
per cent in the mid-1990s and above five per cent in the later 1990s.  The
Government will follow policies to reduce the twelve month increase in consumer
prices to 6.5 per cent by the end of PY1993/94 and to maintain it in line with
the inflation rate of Jamaica's main trading partners in FY1994/95 and FY1995/96.
The nominal exchange rate with the US dollar will be allowed to move in response
to market forces in so far as it maintains the current level of competitiveness
of the real exchange rate. .
-Increasing the growth rate of real GDP will require increased domestic
saving and Lnvestment, and improved economic efficiency.  We expect these to
result from the structural reforms and deregulation programme pursued by the
Government and described in this letter. Public sector savings (including grants
and Bank of JamaLca losses) are projected to increase from 7.8 per cent of GDP
in FY1991/92 to 9.5 per cent of GDP in FY1992193 and to approximately twelve per
cent of GDP by 1Y1995/96. Private sector savings is expected to grow more slowly
at first, because of the initial slow growth in GDP, but should accelerate as
the private sector gains confidence in the economic policies and as the GDP
growth rates Lncrease.
The Government intends to maintain a strong fiscal performance to
accommodate private sector expansion, partly through revenue efficiency measures
including broadening the base of the general consumption tax; other the tax
reforms; measures to increase cost recoveryl and improved customu administration.
The primary emphasis, however, is on improvements in publlc expenditure policies.
public sector investment will decline modestly in relation to GDP in FY1993/94 -
rrI995/96 following an increase in FY1992/93, while private sector investment



39
is projected to rise significantly during the programme period. Public sector
investment will concentrate increasingly on social and economic infrastructure
that can best be carried out, by Government, and many of the investments
undertaken in the past by the public sector will be left to private sector
initiative.  Further, In order to contain public sector recourse to domestic
financing, projects involving foreign financing will be given priority. To this
end, recently the warrant and contract systems were re-examined and the
availability of domestic counterpart funding for externally funded projects was
accorded high priority.
The overall public sector balance (including the Bank of Jamaica
losses but excluding from revenue the proceeds of divestment) has shifted from
a deficit of 0.4 per cent of GD? in FYl991/92 to a surplus of 0.1 per cent of
GDP in FY1992/93. This surplus is slated to rise to 2.5 per cent of GDP in
1993/94 and to three per cent in FY1994/95. The overall balance of the public
entities is targeted to improve substantially, which will more than offset a
temporary widening of the deficit of the rest of the public sector in PY1992/93
and FY1993/94.   The non-financial public sector will be able to reduce its
domestic indebtedness to permit expansion in bank credit to the private sector,
and for the Bank of Jamaica to increase its net international reserves while
reducing its medium- and long-term liabilities.  The Government will continue
to monitor revenue and expenditure flows closely and stands ready to adjust the
expenditure level and fiscal revenues to achieve the public sector performance
targets.
The Government's accelerated privatization programme is an important
part of the Government's fiscal adjustment programme. Privatization proceeds
(potentially J$4 billion over three to four years) will not be counted as part
of current revenues, and will be used to reduce public debt in order to contain
the overall deficit of the remaining public sector within manageable limits.
In allocating the proceeds of privatization between the reduction of domestic
or international debt, the Government will consider both the desirability of
reducing the highest cost liabilities and the necessity of maintaining a
competitive exchange rate.
There are no restrictip,ns on current external payments in Jamaica and
virtually none on capital transactions. The interbank foreign exchange market
is free of direct government intervention.  Maintenance of this liberalized
foreign exchange system and a market-determined exchange rate are cornerstones
of the Government's medium-term policy framework. Economic policies will aim
at promoting stability in the exchange market, wlhile achieving the Government.s
objectives for growth, price stability and stability of external balances. The
Government' s medium-term programme seeks to achieve substantial improvements in
the balance of payments through a stepped-up emphasis on export expansion and
improved debt management and, thus, will ensure that the current account deficit
is reduced from 7.2 per cent of GDP in FY1991/92 (excluding grants) to about four
per cent in FY1992/93, to two per cent of GDP in FY1993/94 and to 1.5 per cent
GDP in FY1994/95.
Under the Administrative Reform Programme, the Government reduced the
size of the civil service payroll by twenty per cent (more than 7,000 persons)
from June to November 1992. On a full-year basis, this action will reduce the



40
Government's wage bill by about eight per cent.  The Government will use the
occasion of the reduction in employment to increase efficiency in the civil
service through a better matching of skills and job requirements.
The Government is ccmmitted to promoting budgetary transparency and
the financial independence of the Bank of Jamaica. The Government has begun to
discharge Lts obligation to provide cash transfers to help cover the Bank of
Jamaica losses, which lncreased over the past several years. In this context,
the Government intends to eliminate this quasi-fiscal deficit for PY1995/96 and
beyond. These transfers will cover all the interest costs of Bank of Jamaica
certificates of deposit, starting in PY1993/94, fnd will cover the outlays to
reduce the stock of outstanding certificates of deposit. This reduction will
start in FY1993/94 and will be complete by the end of FY1995/96. The Government
has begun to make budget allocations to cover these transfers and also cash
transfers to cover the interest on all government debt held by the Bank of
Jamaica.
The Government is extremely concerned about the social cost of
economic adjustment, particularly among the poor. To enhance the quality and
durability of the growth process and to protect the vulnerable groups affected
by the dislocation resulting from the implementation of the reform agenda, the
Government has taken actions to address the needs of the most economically
disadvantaged groups in the society. The GovernmentIa objective is to gradually
improve and maintain minimum required levels of expenditures in the social
sectors (health, nutrition and education) consLstent with its fiscal targets and
the prioritized Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP). The Goverrment is
committed to an annual increase in the share of the non-debt recurrent budget
going to the. social sectors. In addition, the Government will commit itself:to
raise the share in the PSIP for education, health, nutrition programmes from
thirteen per cent in FY1992/93 to at least eighteen per cent in FY1994/95. These
actions also include the provision of short-term relief through the Food Stamp
Programme (mainly for children under the age of six years, pregnant women, and
lactating mothers) and the Micro-Enterprise Programme which provides financing
and technical assistance to small businesses wLth the objective of increasing
employment and production.
The Government is also committed to continue these social safety net
programmes as a subcategory of total expenditures in social sectors, at 1.1 per
cent of GDP in the medium term. Within the recurrent budget for Ministry of
Health, resources for primary care are to be increased to 25 per cent of the
total.  For education, the Government has already met a target of 38 per cent
of its recurrent expenditures going to primary education. The Government ;is
committed to an annual increase in the total share of recurrent expenditures for
basic education (grades 1-9). To alleviate the immediate effects of the labor
redundancy expected from the upcoming divestments, particularly of the sugar
factories, the Government is considering introducing safety-net packages on a
case-by-case assessment of needs within the limits of budgetary targets.
About ten per cent of public sector investment in 1993-96 will be
spent on ..p;ojects which contribute to environmental protection, including
agriculture, forestry, watershed managezoent, waste-water treatment, and the
development of a protected areas system.   In 1991, the Natural Resources



41
Conservation Act was passed and a Natural Resources Conservation &gency was
created. This agency, with the help of the Ministry of Public Servleo and the
Environment and an Inter-Ministerial Committee, will establish a regulatory
framework and research programme in the area of environmental protection in
Jamaica. The Agency has been re-examining a number of new development projects
in the agricultural area with a view to enhancing the environment and mitigating
potential damage.
Financial Sector
In recent years the Government has reformed its financial sector
policies, addressing all major issues. All interest rate controls have been
removed, moving to market determined interest rates.   Interest rate subsidies
have been eliminated, excepting those for low income housing (through the
National Housing Trust, NET), which have now become transparent.
The Government had begun a gradual equalization of the cash-reeerve
-requirements for commercial banks and merchant banks at seventeen per cent by
December 1993. However, as part of the stabilization programme, the Government
recently revised this programme and temporarily raised the reserve reauirement
for commexcial banks to 25 per cent.  Currenftly this ratio is ten per cent for
merchant banks and is being adjusted aocbrding to the original programme's
timetable.   The Government, however, remains committed to the equalization
programme and has set a new date in 1995 to complete it.
In addition, the Government has strengthened the legal-regulatory
framework to introduce stricter prudential regulations and improved supervision.
::Amendments to the Banking A.et (covering commercial banks), a new Financial
TInstitutions Act  (covering "near banks",  for example, trust companies and
merchant banks) and a revised Bank of Jamaica Act were all recently approved by
Parliament. The new Banking and Financial Institutions Acts now include explicit
capital adequacy requirements for commercial and near banks as well as limits
oon expastre to related parties and rules on loan classification. The revised
Bank of Jamaica Act strengthens the authority of the Inspector of Banks to
enforce sound practices.
Consistent with its macroeconomic objectives, the Government's medium-
term strategy is based on substantially reducing the size and scope of the public
-sector, and stimulating investment and growth through the development of an
o'efflcient private sector.  Thus, the remaLning reform agenda focuses on further
improvements  in  efficiency,  through  trade  policy -reform,  deregulation,
privatization and the reform of the legal-regulatory framework for business,
" creating an appropriate competitive environment for foreign and domestlc
investment.
-Trade Policv Reform



42
Since 1987, Jwaaica has taken major steps to liberalize its external
trade regime. All import licenses have been abolished except for a few items
for health and security considerations. Stamp duties have been removed, with
the exception of protective agricultural stamp duties.   Import tariffs were
reduced from zero-to-70 per cent to zero-to-45 per cent in February 1991 as part
of the 1991 CARICOM agreement. Most public trading monopolies in the agriculture
sector have been deregulated and the JCTC Import monopoly extending over 34
product groups has been eliminated. Export licenses, except for those retained
for health and security reasons or as part of international arrangements - for
example, sugar - were removed and most duty exemptions have been abolished.
Remaining exemptions only apply to imports of lOO-per-cent-exporting firms
(including tourism) and charitable organizations. The Government also initiated
a  Customs  Reform  Programme  in  1990  to  improve  efficiency  of  customs
administration and reverue collection and has prelpared a revised Anti Dumping
legislation, consistent with GATT articles, which will be submitted to Parliament
for approval during this fiscal year.
Continued trade reform is an important component of the Government's
reform programme to complete the remaining steps towards creating an outward-
oriented policy environment. The Government is convinced that to strengthen its
international competitiveness, rapid tariff reform beyond what had already been
introduced in 1990 was essential, particularly in light of region-wide moves in
Latin  America towards  lower tariffs.    The Government's main objectives,
therefore, are to substantially reduce tariff protection, facilitate trade
through a complete overhaul of the Customs administration to modernize and
simplify systems and procedures for processlng/clearing imports and exports.
This will include the introduction of an effective duty-drawback system and
further rationalization of remaining exemption schemes.
The Government has already taken major steps to achieve these
objectives. It led the discussions within CARICOM for a major tariff reduction
at an accelerated pace.   On October 29, 1992, at a specia1. Heads of Government
meeting, CARICOM reached an agreement on a tariff reform programme to reduce
tariffs in stages to a five-to-twenty per cent range by 1997-98. Some features
of the new CARICOM agreement, which were proposed by the Government of Jamaica,
are the provision of fast-track and slow-track options for implementation of the
reforms by member countries, and a yearly progress review of the tariff reform.
The Government of Jamaica has chosen the shorter implementation timetable and
moved to a five-to-30 per cent tariff range in April 1993, with four tariff
lines at 5, 20, 25 and 30 per cent.  The only exceptions are tariffs for
agricultural, inputs and the basic necessities basket at zero per cent, and
tariffs for agricultural products (for example, fresh tropical fruits, citrus
and sugar) at 40 per cent, which will remain in effect until the GATT
negotiations are concluded. As agricultural subsidies for these commodities in
other countries are phased out, the import tariff for agricultural products will
be reduced.
The second stage of reform wLll be implemented by January 1995 when
Jamaica will have moved to a five-to-25 per cent range, with three tariff levels.
By January 1997, at the third stage, the tariff range will be reduced to five-.-
to-twenty per cent. At this stage, all zero-rated items and most 40 per cent
items, depending on the outcome of GATT negotiations, will have been brought into



43
the main tariff range. The Government still maintains the long term objective
of moving to a uniform fifteen per cent tariff structure.
The three-stage tariff reform programme described above has been
announced publicly and discussed in detail with the private sector to ensure
tranusieancy and credibility of medium term objectives.  The Government believes
that a better understanding of the reform programme by potential traders and
investors provides a clear signal on the direction of the incentive framework,
and thus, will lead to a more efficient allocation of new investments. Within
twelve monzhs of the implementation, the Government will complete a review of
the tariff reform, based on indicators for total and investment goods, imports,
supply or investment and export response and7discuss the conclusions with the
Bank.
The  improved  international  comupetitiveness,  increased  export
orientation and the introduction of the new tariff structure for agricultural
products and inputs will enable that sector to better compete with extra-
regional imports. Accordingly, the Government haJ decided to reduce the existing
protection to the agriculture sector by accelerating the elimination of
protective agricultural stamp duties. Stamp duties for agricultural products
were eliminated in May 1993. All remaining agricultural stamp duties, with the
exception of a few sensitive goods, will be eliminated by March 1994.  Stamp
duties for the sensitive goods will be eliminated by March 1995.
The Government is also determined to put an end to the chronic
inefficiencies from weaknesses and discretionary practices at the Customs
administration, a major bottleneck for business. Recently, the Government has
taken speciflc steps in Customs reform:  Customs personnel was significantly
downsized;  a new management  was  assigned;  a new  investigation unit  was
established to audit all revenue services; and re-training programs were
initiated to improve the skills as well as the morale of the st&ff.   The
Government also intends to improve revenue collectlon by addressing the rampant
under-invoicing  and fraud issues.   Moreover,  the  existing Customs reform
programe was revised and strengthened, adopting 'trade facilitation" as its main
objective. The revised action plan aims to achieve measurable and substantial
improvements in the quality anid speed of customs clearance in order to facilitate
,imports, exports and revenue collection. The Government will be pursuing these
.objectives by minimizing Customs involvement in export transactions and
establishing an effective, modernized and speedy system for clearance of imports.
The specific targets for the maximum time for cargo clearance are:  (i) 24 hours
for regular importers with no past record of breach of customs laws and
regulations; (ii) 48 hours for first time or occasional importers; (ii$) 72
- hours for inporters with a record of breach of customs laws and regulations-
(iv) eight hours for exporters of perishable goods, with no record of breach of
, customs laws and regulations; (v) twelve hours for regular-exporters; and (vi)
24 hours for first time and occasional exporters.
Exporters will continue to be responsible for providing 24 hours pri6r-.
notification to Customs of their shipments. The Government will monitor these
targets-through systematic sampling of customs records and information obtained
from exporters and Importers.   The above targets will be fully met on a
sustainable basis within a twelve month period, by March 1994.  The Government'



44
sustainable basis within a twelve month period, by March 1994. The Government
has already implemented the first round of measures as specified in the new
Customs Reform Action Plan and will complete the Lmplementation of the remaining
measures by March 1994. Among these, a key measure for facilitating exports,
will be the introduction of effective duty-suspension/duty-drawback schemes by
March 1994.
Deregulation
The Government of Jamaica has been deregulating different facets of
the economy since the mid-1980s to create an environment conducive to private
sector development by increasing the role of market forces and competition. Most
price controls and generalized price subsidies were elLminated, and will not be
reinstated. Public marketing boards and trading monopolies were dismantled and
exchange controls and legal barriers to foreign investment were lifted. As part
Of its new reform agenda, the Government will tackle complex issues of regulating
the utilities: power, water and telecommunications; and the deregulation of two
remaining regulated commercial sectors, sugar and petroleum, where the Government
is simultaneously preparing the privatization of state-owned entities.   The
Government believes that the clarification of the regulatory framework will play.
a very important role in the privatization of publicly-owned entities in the
sugar and petroleum sectors, bringing transparency to the process and increasing,
investor  confidence.    The  sequencing  of  deregulation  and  the  specific
privatization initiatives being undertaken in these sectors is discussed further
in this letter.  The Government is also proceeding with the formulation of an
agriculture sector strategy that would build on the deregulation and.
privatization initiatives described below, partly through reorienting research
and extension activities to support private sector export development, especially.-
for non-traditional products.   In the tourism sector, the aim is to secure
Increased private participation in financing the promotional activities for this
already innovative and successful industry.
In.t1he petroleum sector, the Government has already successfully.,
deregulated the distribution and retail margins, allowing distribution companies',.
to set their own wholesale and retail prices.  To complete the deregulation..
process, the Government has recently adopted and implemented a comprehensive..
deregulation programme to end the import monopoly of the state-owned petroleum
refinery, Petrojam, liberalized imports of petroleum products and deregulated
the prices of petroleum products to distributors.
This programme, already implemented in May 1593, comprised:  (i) the..;-
adoption of a new import tariff structure such that a ten percentage points_,.
differential is maintained between import tariffs for petroleum products and
crude oil.  Consistent with the new CET struc4tre introduced in April 1993, the
Government adopted a five per cent import tariff for crude oil and a fifteen
per cent import tariff for most petroleum products, the only exceptions being. -
the lubricants at 25 per cent tariff and a few petroleum products consumed by...
the poor at zero per cent tariff;  (Li) elimination of (import) stamp duties on
petroleum products; (iiI) the elimination of the tax exemptions and other legal. ;
and regulatory privileges that Petrojam enjoyed to preserve a sole importer



45
status of petroleum products; imoosing the same import tariff structure on
Petrojam.  The Government has already taker. the necessary steps to eliminate
Petrojam's import monopoly position and tariff exemptions;  and   (iv) the
liberalization of prices of petroleum products to the distrLbutors.
The Government believes that the new tariff structure will provide
sufficient revenue to compensate for the foregone direct revenue from Petrojam
and is consistent with fiscal requirements.  Should a. revenue gap ariae, the
Government will make the necessary adjustments in domestic excise taxes on
petroleum products to ensure revenue neutrality, but will not Increase import
tariffs and duties beyond the agreed fifteen per cent.
In  efforts  to  increase  competition  among  suppliers  and  curb
oligopolLstic pricing in the sector, the Government wilL monitor the impact of
its deregulation/liberalization programme on competition in downstreamactivities
(the tankage/storage, transportation and distribution at wholesale and retail
stages), and continue to implement measures to facilitate competition among
small independent importers and the existing distributors.  The Government's
strategy for privatizing Petrojam will also take into consideration, and will
be consLatent with, the maintenance of a competitive environment.
The deregulation of the sugar sector, along with the divestment of the
remaining four publicly-owned sugar mills/estates, is one of the key components
of the Government's reform agenda.  In determining the specific deregulation
strategy, the Government has engaged in intensive discussions and consensus-
building with the cane farmers, the sugar manufacturers and the labor unions,
to resolve the most socially sensitive issues. The Government's objective is
to increase the sector's low productivity and efficiency over the medium term.
This will involve moving to a more market driven structure, through the
divestment of remaining entities and a change in the present institutional and
regulatory structure. The Government's programme aims at maximizing the benefits
to the economy as a whole, taking into consideration the consumers, producers,
workers and the Government.
The key elements of the comprehensive Sugar Sector Deregulation
Programme are:   (i) liberalization of the domestic marketing and Lmports of
refined sugar subject to an import tax;  (it) restructuring the Sugar Industry
Authority (SIA) so that it will become a regulatory agency without any commercial
functions or responsibilities;  (iii) liberalization of domestic marketing of
sugar. However, the industry will be free to organize the marketing of raw sugar
under a private, centralized marketing cooperative of producers and farmers, viz
Jamaica-Cane Products Sales Ltd. (JCPS), with the representation of labour unions
on its board. This option has strong support in the industry for efflciency and
economies of scale reasons. Practices of JCPS, like all private companies, will
come under the Fair Competition Act. (iv) aCPS will also act as the Government'i
sole markestng agent for exporting raw sugar to preferential markets.  Export...
quotas to preferential markets will be allocated pro-rata among the sugar
mills/estates based on the current production. To protect the Integrity of the.v?':--
preferential export agreements, the Government will maintain an import license
on raw sugar to prevent condult trade. (v) The industry will finance and manage
the Sugar Industry Research Institute; and  (vi) foreign exchange allocation ii
the sector will be liberalized.



46
The implementation of the above described Programme is underway.  A
full description of the functions of the new restructured SIA as a regulatcry
body and its financing have been prepared.  Similarly, modifications in the
structure of JCPS, to fulfill its new responsibilities, have been identified.
The implementation o' the deregulation programme will be fully completed by
March 1994, including the necessary changes in legislation and institutional
structure.
The establishment of appropriate regulatory frameworks for the power
and water sectors as well as for the prlvately-owned telecommunication sector
are among the important initiatives that the Government has taken. In the power
sector, as part of its energy sector prLvatUiation and deregulation strategy,
the Government is in the process of developing a regulatory framework to be
implemented prior to the privatization of the Jamaica Public Service Company
(JPS) in 1994.   In addition, steps are no4 being finalized for bringing in
private sector investment in new power generation.   The Government is now
developing a water sector strategy. The main elements of this strategy are to
increase the private sector's participation and to privatizate aspects of the
operations of the National Water Commission (NWC) in order to rehabilitate the
sector and resolve the severe problems it faces. At this initial stage, the
Government has begun contracting out water billing, meter-reading and other
services to the private sector. Along with these strategies, the Government will
be pursuing the option of establishing an Independent utilities regulatory
commission in charge of power, water and telecommunications.
Znvironment
The Government of Jamaica takes prLde in having brought the
environmental concerns to the fore at a very early stage. The Government's major
policy initiatives include the completion of the National Environmental Action
Plan and scheduled activity is three critical areas; land use, the urban
environment, and water pollution.  The passage of the comprehensive Natural
Resource Conservation Act in 1991 and the establishment of an umbrella authority
(the National Resource Conservation Authority, NRCA) allow for the development
of national planning, monitoring and regulatory systems, and also support the
specific programmes mentioned.
Land use plans include the improvement of coastal zone management,
increased technical  assistance for watershed project,  and the removal of
irrigation subsidies in the interests of better resource use. For the urban
environment, a community envirorAniental project is proposed, together with support
for environmental assessment and compliance among smaller enterprises. A major
urban problem, water pollution is being addressed within an investment programme
that includes projects along the North Coast, a planned water project in Kingston
and a much larger project, still in the planning stage, for pollution abatement
in the-ingston Harbour area. Currently no enforceable envixonmental regulations
exist for industrial charges in Jamaica. However, the NRCA has been working on
introducing such regulations, and is gearing up to impose effective regulation



47
of the entire industrial' sector, including privatized entities, in the near
future.
Privatization
The Government of Jamaica has a well established record of
privatization in a wide range of activities. During the first decade of the
privatization progranme (1981-1991) more than fifty enterprises were privatized,
including the Jamaica Telephone Company (JTC), hotels, National CommercLal Bank
(NCB) and the Carib Cement Company. An accelerated privatization programme,
cutting across many sectors, is one of the cornerstones of the Government's
macroeconomic adjustment programme and priLvte sector development strategy.
Through privatization, the Government aims at increasing economic efficiency;
reducing the drain on public sector resources; widening the ownership base and
direct equity participation; and enhancing access to foreign markets,
technologLes and capital. The Government has adopted the principle that it will
withdraw over the medium term from commercially-oriented activities, and seek
private sector participation in utilities and in other infrastructure, through
divestiture and private sector sponsorship of new investments. The Government
envisages continued involvement in transportation (roads, ports and airports)
where it is now starting a privatization initiative; and in bauxite/alumina where
it maintains joint-ventures with foreicgn multinationals. Consistent with this
policy, the Government will not create new majority-owned public enterprises in
commercial activities in the future.
The initial list of more than sixty entities that were slated for
privatization represent more than fifty per cent of the total assets of the
public enterprise sector. Among these are forty of the fifty largest entities,
Including major loss makers such as Air Jamaica, sugar factories and the Jamaica
RailwaC dorporation (JRC); and commercial enterprises such as Petrojam, JPS and
the National Water Commission (NWC), as well as smaller entities and services.
Since then a few other entities and assets were added to the list of enterprises
to be divested.   The Government is prepared to  implement the announced
privatization programme rapidly and through transparent procedures. It is aiming
at completing the privatization of all of these entities by the end of 1994.
However, the divestment in power and water which have already begun are expected
to span over a three to four year period.
The primary mode of privatizat.toa Is divestment - a direct transfer
of ownership to the private sector - particularly in 'commercial sectors.
However, the privatization method and strategy for each entity will be
determined, depending on the type of asset and the sector. For example, in the
case of water, ,the Government will explore a combination of different methods
of privatization, including contractLng out services and long term leasing.



48
The Government has also prepared legislation which will soon be tabled in
Parliament, to introduce Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) to broaden tho
ownership basa. ESOPs are ex11ected to be used by private companies as a method
of raising capyaal. This legislation is the first of its kind in developing
countries. The Government will encourage the inclusion of an ESOP component in
privatization packages, wherever appropriate.
The new institutional framework, privatization objectives and strategy
were spelled out in the Ministry Paper No: 34 issued by Office of the Prime
Minister in 1991. In this new phase of privatization, the Government has decided
to take a more centralized and systematic approach. The National Investment Bank
of Jamaica (NIBJ3) has become the institution responsible for coordination and
implementation of the programme, and was placed undpr the responsibility of the
office of the Prime Minister, with the Prime Minister himself haring
responsibility for this programme. The institutional responsibilitles and the
prccess have been fine-tuned since 1991, to bringw more flexibilLty and ensure
a more explicit "consensus-building  in the decision making process, while
preserving transparency. More decentralized supporting mechanisms (for example,
Special Divestment Committees) were introduced into this centralized framework
to better handle more troublesome or sensitive diveetments.   Such committees
have been established In the cases of Air JamaLca, JPS, Petrojam and the sugar
sector. With some of the technical work for complex or sensitive privatization
now being carried out by special committees, NIBJ has concentrated more on the
privatization of small and medium entities and plays a coordinating role for the
remaining entities. In addition, the Urban Development Corporation (DC) has
been given a parallel prLvatization portfolio of remaining four hotels and public
land, sharing NIBJ's previously unique responsibility for implementlng the
privatizatLon programme. The objectives, process and the principles set out bi
the Government, however, apply to both UDC and NIBJ.
The Government has decided that the privatization of each entity will
be carried out in a way consistent with the following principlest  (i) all
appropriate regulatory issues will be dealt with prior to, or simultaneously
with, privatization;   (ii) no direct financing or loan guarantees will be
provided to purchasers; (iii) no new investments, other than maintenance will
be undertaken by the Government prior to privatization, except in the utilities
sectors (power and water); (lv) sale of public enterprises or entities to other
public sector institutions will not be considered as privatization;  (v) all
transactions will be conducted in an open and transparent manner, consistent with
normal standards of commercial discretion, and will be open to local and foreign
investors;  (vi) no unsollcited offers will be processed, recognized or assessed
by the Govertmeht or NIBJ, prior to the official advertisement of an entity; NIBJ
will respond to such unsolicited offers with a pro-forma letter informing the
interested parties of the expected date of advertisement of the asset or entity;
(vii) direct sale or negotiation cannot occur without publicly solicited bids, -
except in cases where pre-emptive right exists and where it is more economical
to do so in light of the small value of the assets involved;  (viii) at the
completion of the sale, all aspects of the transaction will be in the public
domain; and (ix) in case a minority share is retained in any enterprise by the
Government, such interest will not be ascribed special or extraordinary voting
considerations.



49
The Government is committed to follow these principles strictly to
ensure transparency, accountability and the maximum long term benefits to the
country from privatization. These principles are reflected in a Policy Paper
issued by the Office of the Prime Minister as a supplement to the %inistry Paper
No. 34.
The Government has prepared specific privatization timetables for
every entity, Lndicating the expected implementation date for each key step in
the privatization process, such as completion of valuation, bringing to the point
of sale, negotiations and completion of the transaction.   The Government is
fully committed to complete the privatization7of all entities within the set
timetables. Based on the experience of past privatization and as reflected in
the privatization timetables, under normal circumstances the privatization of
an entity should be completed within twelve months of bringing it to the point
of sale.
For a more systematic and effective implementation, the Government has
clarified its overall privatization strategy by classifying the entities slated
for privatization as priority entities, and small and medium size entities, based
on size, impact on the budget, complexity of issues involved In their
privatization and expected impact on the long term efficiency gains. Priority
entities are Petrojam, Air Jamaica, NCB, Lhe remaining four publicly-owned sugar
mills/estates and JRC. Among these, NCB, Air Jamaica and the four sugar entities
have already been brought to the "point of sale". The Government understands
that "brought to the point of sale" to mean the completion of preparatory work
including audit and valuation, privatization strategy, preparation of tender
document (for sale of assets) or draft prospectus (for public offering) and the
issuing  of the prospectus or the tender document and issuing the public
announcement or advertisement for privatization.
National Commercial Bank is already fully privatized, through a
transfer of its remaining 39 per cent shares to the private sector via a public
share offer, and the Government has received some expressions of interest for
Air Jamaica.   In the sugar sector, valuation work for all  entities was
accelerated and the privatization of two entities was advanced by one year, and
all four remaining sugar entities, instead of just Monymusk and Frome as agreed
under the programme, were offered for sale simultaneously in May 1993.   The new
regulatory framework in the sugar sector was included in the invitation for bids
for the sugar entities. By March 1994, the Government will also bring Petrojam
to the point of sale.   A privatization strategy for Petrojam is now being
finalized, based on a comprehensive study which also addressed the regulatory
issues and import liberalization.  The railway, JRC, has been closed and all
employees, except for a few who were retained to manage the JRC's assets, have
been made redundant. The Government is carrying out a transport sector study
of which rail transport is an integral part. Recommendations of the study will
be  finalized  by  September  1993.    The  Government  will  draw  on  these
recommendations to formulate a strategy for restructuring and/or privatization
of JRC during the second half of 1993. By March 1994, the implementation of the
agreed programme for JRC will have progressed according to the timetable adopted
by the Government.



50
Significant progress has been made In the privatization of tbe
remaining small and medlum size entities, assets and servicos slated for
privatization. The Government has already brought twenty entities to the point
of sale. Out of the twenty entities, eleven have been divested, one contracted
out (hospital services) and eight are under negotiatoans or have been advertized.
In addition, four government-owned assets/lands w-er privatized through long-
torm (25-49 years) leases and three advertized for long term lease. By March
1994, at least another twenty entities, assets or services will be brought to
the point of sale. The Government will monitor the implementation progress
closely an& will prepare a quarterly progress report, including lessons from
the privatizatlon processes and reasons for any delays or changes in the
timetable.
The Government will also accelerate the liquidation of entities which
ars insolvent, in receivership or have ceasedoperationg.  To facilitate the
future liquidations and to avoid keeping lnsolvent entitLes on the privatization
lsLt indefinitely, the Government has adopted criterLa for deciding when a public
enterprise becomes a candidate for liquidation.   Using these criteria, the
Government will identify entities to be liquidated among those offered for
privatizatlon nine months earlier and which have not attracted any acceptable
offers from the private sector. Following a revLew, the Government will appoint
liquidators to each entlty which has been finally selected.
To maintain the momentum of the privatization programme, the
Government is in the process of preparing a 1994-96 privatization programme
including new privatization candidatos. This list will comprise the majority
of remainLng publicly-owned assets ln the commercial and productive sectors
(exoluding the bauxLte Lndustry) as well as public servLces, and the utilities
(power and water). Thli now list of entLties slated for privatization, that is
in ,the pipeline", will be finalized and approved by Cabinet by March 1994.
-" _The Government will be responslble for carrying out environmenta.
audits for public ontitles which pose a potential environmental problem and in
which the Government has controlling shares (not less than fifty per cent), prior
to their privatization. Such entities have already beon identified and the
Government has begun taking the required actions.
Buslness Leaal and Reaulatorv Environment
Since mid-1980s, the Government Implemented reforms to Lmprove tbo
business environment through deregulation, Lncluding the removal of legai
restrictions an foreign investments and trade.  In its reform programse, thX
Government plans to eliminate remaining major bottlenecks for investment, exports
and domestic compotition in order to change the image that some investors have
of Jamaica as a highly bureaucratic, regulated environment.  During the past
year, the Government intensified its efforts to improve business environm nt
through legal, regulatory and adminLstrative reforms coverLng competition,
domestlc distrlbution, capital markets, corporate law and bureaucratic red tap-.



51
The Government has just introduced a now Falr CompetitLon Act, to
provide a level playing field and foster competitive behavior. The Act makes
prLce collusion and market division illegal, defines dominant maxret position
and brings xanctions against the abuse of such dominant market power. rt algo
addresses basic consumer protection issues.  The Act creates a Fair Trading
Commission (FTC) to enforce the its provision.. By March 1994, the Government
in committed to put into effect all the regulations accompanying the Act and to
establish and make the FTC fully operational. The Governmant will carry out a
review, within twelve months, to assess the performance and practices of FTC.
To further improve competition in domestic distribution of staple
geods generally procured by Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC), the
Government has opened up entry in domestic distribution by changing 5CTC's
methods of selecting its distributors. The JCTC now has transparent competitive-
bidding procedures for selecting distributors. For eligibility, distributors
are now--required to be bona-fide incorporated organizations complying with
Government regulations and up-to-date with their tax obligations, and to
demonstrate creditworthiness.
The Government is simultaneously improving the legal-regulatory
framework for capital market development. It has recently enacted the SecurLties
Act which creates a new Securities Commission. By March 1994, the regulations
under the Securities Act, Including those for the operations of stock exchanges,
will have been. promulgated and the securities Commission will have been
established. New regulatory framework for *tock exchanges will remove exLiting
restrictions on entry/exit and will introduce instead non-discretionary *ntry
criteria based on professional qualification and financial standards, backed up
by rigorous prudential regulation.  By March 1994, the Government will also
complete a review of taxation of financial instruments, including double taxation
of dividends which presently discourages equity investment and the raising of
capital through public equity offers, in order to establish a taxation scheme
which is neutral across instruments. Based on the review the Government will
introduce changes in the tax regime in FY1994/95.
The Government has been preparing a draft Companies Act to modernize
the business environment,. facilitate entry and exit and reduce the cost of day-
to-day business activities, which will be submitted to Parliament for approval
by March--1994,.  The Goverrnment's objectives are.  (i) to minimize barrlers to
entry for smalL businesses seeking the benefits of incorporationp   (Ui) to
encourage efficient and innovative management of companies by conferrlng
directors a wide measure of discretion in matters of busLness judgement, while
protecting whareholders and creditors against abuses of management powerj  (iii)
not to inhibit legitimate commercial activities, or place unnecessary limits on
the abLlity of participants in enterprises to structure those enterprises in the
most appropriate wayi and  (iv) not to Impose unnecessary coliance costs on
businosses operating in Jamaica. In addition, the revised draft Companies Act
will introduce provisions for rationalizing and facillitating the reorganization
or the orderly exit (liquidation) of companies in financial difficulty, and will
clarify the responsibilitios of "adminiutrative receivers".
In connection with the changes to be introduced under the new
Companles Act, the Government is now envisaging the modernization of the register



52
of personal property system in the medium term.  A new register of personal
property securities would replace both the Register of Company Charges and the
Bills of Sale Registers kept in Spanish Town.  This reform will simplify search
procedures, increasing certainty in commercial transactions and facilitating the
eventual computerization of the registration and searching systems.
Finally, the Government is determined to drastically improve the day-
to-day dealing of business with the state by eliminating heavy administrative
red tape. During 1991-92 the Government took important initiatives to increase
the Government-private sector collaboration to find simple solutions to
bureaucratic problems hampering business activity. The Government has initially
focused on the investment and export proce"ses which have a very significant-
impact on business performance. The proposed changes would require a complete
shift in the Government's role and mandate from control to facilitation. To this
effect, the Government has adopted a number of principles to define Lts future.-
responsibilities, role and mandate in the areas of investments and exports. The
Government is fully committed to these principles, which are reflected in the
Corporate Plan for the Customs Department and the Corporate Plan for the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, and will not take actions or impose controls
which would violate them.   in addition, to address the immediate specific
problems, it has developed detailed action plans to streamline and simplilfy
export and investment procedures in line with the principles. The Action Plans
recesved wide acceptance by private sector as well as government agencies
involved in investment and export processes.
Specifically, in the investment area, the Government has reduced the
approval time to an average of one to two weeks, streamlined steps involved, with
the aim of reducing the number of clearances. To this end, the Government has
established a short negative list of unacceptable activities, such as, weapons
industry and hazardous waste processing.  The Government has also eliminated
the discretlonary technical evaluation system used for investment proposals in
activities exporting 100 per cent of their production and tourism projects.  The
Government is committed to gradually phasing out investment incentives schemes,
maintaining only those incentives that have proven effective across countries.
In  the  export  area,   the  Government  has:  (i)  adopted  a
documentation-based verification of exports with random physical checks on a
small percentage of shlpments; and (ii) minimized customs involvement in export
transactions and eliminated all other control functions of JAMPRO with the
exception of those imposed by other countries for drug control purposes. This
is consistent will JAMPRO becoming solely an export promotion agency suoport.14
the private sector.



-53
With the implementation of the above policies, Jamaica will have
substantially accelerated the reform agenda. and consolidated its structural
adjustment effort, increased its reLiance on the private sector and on market
forces as the engine of economic growth.
Yours faithfully
.uqVSmal , Q.C., M.P.
Minister f FTinance






l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JU
PSAE S       3 D      KeVIEN  ADARHI LoAm
SECTQRJPoL1Ct lilA                            CURIEY1 SIIUATItII                           3c1  Ec bnAlD PlESSITA I                        1IOI)AIUEfOR  SEC=  lRAJLCE
A. XUJENCI
On septmber 21  1991  the                Haintenance of a tight filcal                 Satisfactory macroeconomic                   Satisfactory macroeconomic
Goveranmnt removed all exchange          policy Is the centerpiece of the             performanse:                                  performAnce:
contrete sad surrender                   macro-economic framework.
requirements.  G01 hua adopted a                                                      (a) Maintenance of sond macro                 (a) Maintenance of sound macro
sedlu ert   macro-economi,                                                             polley framework monitored through           policy framework monitored through   t
framework to be monitored under                                                       selected aoP and fiscal Indicatorc5           selected SOP and fiscal Indicators; It
PSOAL.  IMf has approied atn                                                            b) maintenance of a minimi                  (b) maintenance ot a miniuon
Deceober 11, 1992, a 3-year OFF,                                                       percentage allocatlon of PSIP to             percentag. aliocetion of PSIP to
social sectors, as specified In the          social sectors as specified In the
Letter of Developent Policy; (c)             Letter of Development Policy; (c)
ainteance of a liberalized                   maintenance of a liberalized
foreign exchange end Interest rate           foreign exchange and Interest rate
regimes; (d) ceaptiance with the             regiW3; (d) cofptirnce with the
policy oblectives and program                policy objectlves and programs
desaribed in she tetter of                   described in the letter of
evelopment Policy.                           Devetopment Poticy, and general        e
maintenance of the reform program 
(i.e., no backsliding).               r_
K.  '  IMQi                                                           , 
In february 1991, the new CET            GOJ took Initiative with CARICQI to          Pelic awoncemet of the three-
with a narrower fgane (OX-4S1)            further redwce CET in July 1992.             stage tariff reform and tlmetable.
Wss Iptemented, reducing rate            Agreement an tariff reform was               lepltmentat ion of the 5X-30X tariff
of nominal proteetfln levels             rerched In October 1an. re with four tariff levels.
frce (CET * stmrp drcth                               cr) higher                      Only exceptions are agriculturat
then 20X. However, the 1"1 CET                                                        products at 40, end balc
stilt  rvided high afefctive                                                          necessities basket an  agricultural
protection.                                                                            inputa at OX.
Host stomp duties have been              A few of the agricultural stoap               Elimination of agricultural stamp            Elilmnation of remaining
etlIntated wdepr *IM1 ,11ulth            duteis have been eliminated ahead             duties for at least 30X of prodcts           agricultural stap duties, except
the Intreduction of OCT.                 of schedule.                                 covered.                                      for a few agreed senitive Item.
Exceptiomna  reo  aceAo*t  tobacco
and  se aoricultural products.
pilcutturlt stop Duties are
being pcsaed eut tider Af4AL
over 3-7 year period.                                                                                                                                                        I
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,.



SrCTUcICV AU                                  OLt1UT SITUATIOM                                BEFORE BOAR  PRESENTATIIN             rfaORE SECOND TuACIE
it  _. ,lte  _ef..
facilltatlnmi
The Govertnmnt has initiated a            iptementatiton of the first phase             Establishment of targets for                  Crepletion of the isplementation of
reform program to address                 of reforms agreed wider IfSAL 11 Is           customs clearsnce/cargo processing            the Action Plan, meeting the
chronic problew  In the Custom            underway. However, the program                as key objectives of custos                   targets set in the Action Plan for
Administration.  The Custam               lacks focus on trade facilittIon.             reform. *s indicated In the Customs           processing tise, quality and
Department suffers frem                   COJ revised existing Action Plan to           Reform Actln Plan.  ilplemantation           quantity of services concerning
organhistionel weaknesses and             Introduce trade facilfcatlon                  of the new Action Plan In                     exports, Ilports and passengers.
Its staff lack incentivea,                systems and procedures,                       accordance with Its schedule end              The Action Plan Includes the
discipline  nd management                 particularly for exporters.  A                objectives. Actions uill Includes              ixple,aentation of a duty-suspension
skills. This adversely affects            detailed, outout_rJ jjntd Custom              (a) miniizoation of the involvement           regime to facilitate both, direct
collectfon of tariff revenue an           Reform Action Plen has now been               of Custom  In export transactlons;            and indirect exports.
Joprdlies the trade reform,               prepared.                                     (b) slmptlfication of custom
creating a serlous bottleneck                                                           Inspection procedures through
for Irporters an  exporters.                                                            adopting docuwent bansed cargo
exmination; (c) reduction of
nmber of forms required from
traders by adopting a multi-purpose
unified form; nd (d) revision of
Custom regulations consistent with
the reform program.
1. Pere_uIatlen of
Susar Sector
The sugar sector, a mjor                  in view of the COJs decisln to               Cabinet spprval of the Sugar             C, Completion of the sugar sector
employer and foreln exchane               privatize the sugar Industry, It io           Sector Deregulation Proorm,                   deregulation program outlined In
earner, has low productivity and          sesentlet to review regulatory/               Receipt from GOJ of a formal latter           the COJIs letter.
efficloicy.  sector has pFiule            policy Issues such as pricing,                outlining the deregulation program
and private ownrship ad It  a             marketing, iport nd expert of                 to be completed by tarch I9M4   The
highly regulated.                         sugar, and deregulate the sector to           key components of the proram  are:
Increase efficIency.  eased on a             (a) liberalization of the domestic
recent study, COJ has prepared a             mrketing and Icports of refined
deregulation strategy for the sugar           suiar sublect to an liport tax; (b)
sector.                                      restructuring the SIA such that It
will become a regulatory agency
withoutany comuercial functions or
responsibilities; (c) private
provision of domestic marketing of
asgar.  T,e In"t  can orgnize
the mrketing of raw sugar wurer a
private, centrallzed mrketing
cooperstive of producers and
farmers (JCPS), with the                                                             H
representation of labor uedans In 
Its board. JCPS will came under the
FCAs (d) JCPS wtil became GOJ*s
epit marketinv aent for raw sugar



SeCIRJFUC  ARlt  UOENRENlt  SUnUAICI                                                          IIEFOE  MN) PRiEScNtATION                      BEFOE SECOM TICNE
exports to preferentilt markets.
Export quotes to preferential
markets will be allocated pro-rats
mong producers based on current
production. GWJ will maintain an
imort license on raw sugar to
prevent conduilt trade to preserve
Its export quotas; (e) the Industry
will finance and manage SIRI; and
Cf) liberelization of the foreign
exchange allocation in the sector.
Jaleacan Petroleua Corporatlon            It Is ecsential that prior to the             Elilination of the de  f       c    isport
and Its  subidiary Petrojam               privatilation of the refinery an              monopoly through the following
refinery, mintain a dJe fco               appropriate regulatory framework              measures:  (a) the refinery Itself
rwnnl on all petroleum                    open to coepetitlon Is established,           has become subject to the same 
product lmports through                   eliminating Petrojams privileges              import tariffs faced by other
exclusive exemptions from                 and other regulatory lmpediments to           Inporters; (b)   unilform Imort
prohibitive Import tariffs.  The          competition. A llnk/GOJ study has             tariff of 15X applicable to all
refinery Is on the list of                been carried out to specify                   petroleum products (except for
ptbtlc enterprises approved for           measures needed to deregulate the             iubricants) and 5X tariff for crude
divestment.                               sector.                                       have been Introduced; (c) stanp
duties on Inports of petroleum
products have been eliminated; (d)
legal ixpediments to free imports
of petroleum products have been
removed; (e) petroleum product
prices to the distributor have been
dereguloted; and (f) additional
dereguletion measures to facilitate
competition among supptiera In the
doueas activities hee been
Implemented.
-
0'



:Et2URJPoLICY AREA                           O8REMT SltMTION                                  IEfCRE OWD PRESENTATIONU                       BEFORE SECWI  TRAICCE
0. pRATLIC
SECTOR IEFOI"
I. P    n tm
Institutioeal
-Frowr
The Covernrent unrocmced an               Many *lements of overall
accelerated privatization                 privatization strategy are in
proegrm   and *trateWy   ltch             place. Policy guidelines  nd the
have been  apprved by Cabinet,            new privatization procedures have
and     list of (67)                      been adopted. Generic Principles
entities/assets  slated for               for privatizetion adopted by COJ
privatization. IIUJ has become            .re reflected In the Letter o0
the central agency for the                Develoement Polcy.
iapleantation, uad.r the Prim
Hinisterc Office, uiulle Cabinet
la the dacision-mking body.
I1. Privatizetion Prrm
liplementation of the                     As of Deceeber 1992, 11 entities                                                            Carrying out agreed privatlzation
prlvatilztlon program has been            were divested, e entities                                                                   progra  Including
moving satisfactorily. lhe Dank           advertloed  nd In negotiations (ne                                                           Cabinet aporoval of a list of
has provided assistance In                service contracted out). 4 long                                                              pAiic entitles  soreed by the
setting pioerties SW* f'                  tert leas ed I dna ttg      d ior                                                            an, to be privatistd In 1994-,
entities/assets en  identifying           (lON-term) leasing.                                                                          comprising th  majorlity of
priority entities on the                                                                                                               remaining piAicliy-owmed assets In
privatization list.,                                                                                                                   the comercial, productive
activities (excluding bauxite), ad
public services;
a. Priority Entities                      List of priority entitles to be               Carrying out the agreed                       PETROJAM (see A.11.) and remaining
divested Includes: Sugar                      privatsietion program. wiich                  sugar mills have been brought to
fills/Estates (5 entities), Air               includeas                                     the point of sale;  satisfactory
Jamaica  NCo, PEIROJA, JRC.                   2 Sugar mills. Air Jamlce  nd NCO            progress on restructuring and/or
have been brought to the point of             privatizing JRC.
sale.
b.    dolu'Small Entities                                                              At least 20 additlonal entities               20 sure entities have been brought
have been brought to the point of             to the point of salae                "
sale.                                   't 
c. Entitiles to be Liauldated             GOJ In a letter to the Nank                                                                  Cased on agreed criteria.
pecified criteria for selecting                                                             selection of agrup of puof    is        l
public entitles for liquidation.                                                            entities for liquidatlon, as          o      a
reqpired,  nd appointoant of
liquidatwo. .



SECltU'LIC1  UUEA tIINIT SITUATION                                                            KEFOE IOAID IRESEVIA11101                      UfECE SECOlD IRLSChE
E. LEML/LtEalUTMT
Its development is constralned            A Securities Bill has been                    (a) Passage of the Securities Act             (a) Adoption of corresponding
bys (a) lack of a satisfactory            presented to Partlment.                                                                     regulations; (b) putting in place
regulst.ry fraeork                                                                                                                    the regulatory framwork to lprov
eatabl tabIng transprency,                                                                                                           the strueture of etock exchanes,
adtate dl   etloure a4                                                                                                                to Increeae coaptitlon _ong
audtin  standrdsu   Vb                                                                                                                brokers by reovwivn  eJuieting
reiulatirns that limit                                                                                                                barriers to entry and exit, ad to
csipetitin  aong ibroters                                                                                                             bring trnsparency end adeqate
providinfor free entry/exist                                                                                                          'disclosure requirements. (c)
of brolera to the Jfie e  n Stocit                                                                                                    presentatlon to the lank a review
Exch nger to) distorticns in                                                                                                          of tax Incentives for financial
fxcwel incentivest                                                                                                                     Instrucents and a proposed action
fiscat Incentives.                                                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~plan to streamline these tax
incentives, to be Introduced In the                oo
foltowing fiscal year.
II. egal Framr  for
CietitIon  Entra uW  Exit
1.aitr 9te ItIWon
Cosu_rr
Proteet ea
Due to a protective trade regime          The FCA also deals with constvaer             Passage of the Fair Coapetitlon                Adoption of accexqanying
and entry/exit bqrriers,                  protection Issues.  The Bank wilt             Act.                                          regulations to guide FTC In Its
ucapetitive business practices            provide assistance In the                                                                    evaluation of cases.  Establishment
are cwon, reinforcing the                 estabilshment of the F1C.                     Adoption and lapleoentation of new            of FTc   nd nmaking It fully
oligpoliatic nature of the                                                              procedures for ICIC's stlectha of             operational.
domstic mrket.  To discourage                                                           its distributors, introdcing a
usceapetitive behavior (e.g.,                                                           transparent, open system.
price fixing) ad to create an
eawirermnt of fair competition.
G0. decided to Introedce a new
tramorlk.  The fair Cospetitien
Act wlil eatsbtlsh a Fair
trading Coemissin (FTC) as the
Iuplemating agncy.
If. CnhaleJs A
Existing Cmpeonlaa  Act Is based         Copanles Act Is now being reviced.                                                          Sdubissien of the revised Coepnies
en the 1961 U.K. legislation.  A          Recent experience In this area In                                                           Act  which  Incitdes provision   for
revised Cepnles' Act defining             other countrles (e.g., New Zealand                                                          Atart-cp procedlues ruditing  fo   at
the basis for modern bulsness             sod the U.K.) was reviewed ad                                                               the liquldition eI reormleatieen



SECTIRIPVLICT AREA                            OSRENIT SiTtIATWIO                                BEFORE BOM   PRESENTATION                      -BEFORE SECJM  TRANCHE
practices Is needed to Improve:            Incorporated In the fDJ's report                                                             of coppanies, to Parliament for
(a) Start-up procedures; (b)               containing proposed changes which                                                            approval.
Auditing/-disclosure practices;            was reviewed by the Bank.  The
(C) Liquidation procedures.                report contains adequte provisions
Liquidation process tekes 3-5              for reorganization of companies and
year., resulting In high costs             an institutional mchanism for
for creditors and debtors.                 edulnltrelve ricalysula to
Provisions for        -                    fciltatth             is.
ore not  qutely dve loped In
the comanles' Act to reduce
costs for securedasecured
creditors and debtors,
increasing efficiency.
Ill. Slwlficatlon of
lImestnt and ExPort
Procedres
The approvals process for                  COJ collaborated Is. working closely           Adoption by GOJ of the 'principles'            Coapletion of the Implementation of
foreign and domestic Investments           with private sector organizations              for defining the Government's role             the action plans for slopliying y0
Involves nurerous Goveriment               to simpllfy export/investment                  in the Investment and export                   investment and export procedures,
sgoncles and a %technical                  procedures.  4OJ has decided to                processes.  lepleentation of the               Including the reduction of approval
eValuatlin" by JAMPiIO, end takes          take all control fuictions out of              first phase of the eVreed Actlon               tiee for new Investments to 2
3-6 months to complete.                    JAIP'R0 to Increase the                        Plam  to reduce new investmont                 weeks.
Bureaucratie  process for                  effectiveness of Its                           approvals tib  and facilitate
exporters Is even heavier                  facilitatory/support role.  GOJ Is             exports. Heasures key in tle
Involving 23 steps for each                also In the process of streamlining            action plans include:  (a)
shipment. To attract new forelgn           and rationalizing existing tax                 Minimization of nuaber of steps and
Investment, particularly in                holidays and rebates provided for              elimination of duplication  in
exporting Industries, GOJ                  100X exporting firms, those In FTZs            investment approvals with an
recognizes the drgency to create           and the Toursis sector, and Is                 objective of reducing the approval
an operating envirosent                    consotidating them uider new                   of new Investments to 2 weeks; (b)
conducive to bjsiness.                     Omnibus Invstment Act.                         elimination of technical evaluation
system, adopting a standard rule
While JAlPRO's mandate Is to                                                              for approving 100l   export projects;
help Investors and exporters, It                                                          (c) elimination of alt control
continues to perform soe                                                                  ftunctions performed by JWPRO,
fcontrol  flunctiona.                                                                     except for those required by
foreign goverrnuents custom for
drug control; (d) 6oJ1s co_Itent
to rationallite  nd phase out, In
the meditu  term, fiscal Incentives.
aQ



MAP SECTION






5     . U.A. 80.   75       7077!                                             77'07e
THE
BAHAMAS                           EI atlon
-twoXr   Feet        Meters                  AMAICA
MEXICO        CUBA                 DOMNCAN           5908 1800                         Main Arterial Roads           0    Selected Towns
20                         HIT 
-HAITI                   294           900         -       Main Secondary Roads          (0   Parish Capitals
BHELIZE    JAMAICA                                 1477          450                 Main Ports                         National Capital
HONDURAS                    International            591          180                 International Airports             Parish Boundaries
e'HONDURAS                   Boundaries  ts-  
15RAGUAZ                                                          0                    Region Boundaries                  County Boundaries
8L&  NICARAGUA  0    70       To                                            U
CORNWALL                                      o; #
'16a
0    10   20   30ONT40   S0T AIUTNS                                                                                                   L
IDs * _    X}  ' ^ - e  : .  IDDLESEX
t  <  ~~~~        >9-5:  A5,$    t %                                        < e~~~Buf  SURRERY             
tovdon +  >    \ \   X   ~~Oxford |           tk'W-*<- \/                                           ANTONO0
LA-MAR                                       .! oMooty   ot       r$(                     lBlorctir 
78000~~~~            7703cr W77*iel                                               P 7537 AAW
B\        {f>Z4   tiE  X ivtsffdd  -               ' Bog Walky       5/ \\    +"           POfBog w
-18 0a ~~~~~~RIVE               R       iveArn^   = S 
sT El-IZABErJ                   oe        .    '                     N(                  N  atX        Hr
. % . MCHESO/Ei0,> 8 HarbourRylwBy_,
Part.   -                     Bay                                         ANTEWeS
Rocky Point 
Dl    O    10   20   30O  40   50 KLOIM                                                                                                       W
>              ;0    1   0    2   0     3 Mpl n,p....o hW#sn sdadIhebndsssgL-ErSoa_
_                  ~~~~~~~~78 00                  77a SO                          70'7 h_dgSsF               y e>Pr rSy eqs>mo acpsc lJuhDUpr  l









IU1AGI4-N <t
Typ  I CP
, e j 1!- !rl t  N   ~.-   1 G 14 ;
lype:  D-4 



