Docunent of                    -
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7882
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
JUNE 29, 1989
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR O0iCA USE OY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinr'ton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olhie co Dvecw.Ce.~al
June 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUAJECT:   Project Performance Audit Report on Bangladesh Oxbow
Lakes Fishery Prolect (Credit 890-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Performance Audit Report on Bangladesh Oxbow Lakes Fishery
Project  (Credit  890-BD)"  prepared   by  the  Operations  Evaluati:,..
Department.
Attachment                      a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
?age No.
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Preface.. e............................  ...... ....
Basic Data Shet.h....e...e....t....**.... 0...  e  ii
Evaluation Summary. .............. .0 ........... . .0 .... ... . .. .........  v
I.    BACKGROUND .....s.......................ses.............   1
II.     IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ........... ............  . .see   3
III.     PROJECT OUTCOME .................. ... . .... ... ......  5
IV.     FINDINGS AND ISSUES ..           .............. ....... .  5
A.  Inadequate Preparation ...............  ................. ...  5
B.  Unrealistic Yield Assumptir"i .....s......... .. ... ...  6
C.  Private Sector Mini-hatch.r3 Development and the
Future Role of the Baluhar Lake Central
Hatchery ........................... .......................  7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Is     INTRODUCTION .................................es.......... o.o...13
II.     PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION .................. 14
III.     IMPLEMENTATION ......es..........................,................ 16
IV.     INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ......... ...... 30
V.     PROJECT IMPACT ........................               ............. 31
VI.     FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ................ ....... 36
VII.      IDA PERFORMANCE ....................... .  ... ... .#....38
VIII.      ISSUES ..........................40
IX.    CONCLUSIONS ...........*...es......  .41
TABLES
MAPS
1. Lakes Location
2. Project Lake. and Major Infrastructure
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
PREFACE
1.       This  is  a  Project  Performance   Audit  Report  (PPAR)  on  the
Bangladesh Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project, involving an IDA credit in the
amount of US$6.0 million (m) to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), with
the objective of introducing improved hatchery and inland fisheries produc-
tion techniques into six underexploited oxbow lakes in Jessore District in
southwest Bangladesh.   The  credit  was  approved  on March 29, 1979, and
became effective on February 13,  1980.    US$0.6  m of the cnrdit was can-
celled on June 30, 1986 at tbe request of the Borrower. The Closing Date
of June 30, 1984 was extended to June 30, 1986. Final Disbursement was
made in December 1986.
2.       The PPAR  consists  of  the  Project  Performance Audit Memorandum
(PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and the Proj-
ect Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the FAOICP and subsequently revised
by Asia Region staff. The PPAM is based on the attached PCR, the Staff
Appraisal and the President's Reports, the loan documents, the transcripts
of the Executive Directors' meetings at which the project was considered,
on a study of project files, and on discussions with Bank staff. An OED
mission visited Bangladesh in December 1988 and discussed the effectiveness
of the Bank's assistance  with  relevant  GOB  agencies.   Their kind coop-
eration and valuable assistance in the preparation of this report is grate-
fully ecknowledged.
3.       The PCR provides a complete  account and assessment of the project
experience, and discusses the performaneres of the Bank and the project
executing agencies. The PPAM elaborates on particular aspects such as the
preparation and appraisal experience and recent promising developments
within the private sector.
4.       Following standard OED procedures,  copies  of the draft PPAR were
sent to the Government. No comments were, however, received.



- ii -
PROJECT PERFCUANCE AUDIT EPORT
OXBW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
MOIT S8410)
SASIC DATA SHEEt
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or Actual as X
Appralnsl  Estiasted  of Appraisal
Item                                Estimate    Actual       Estimate
Project Cost (US$ mtIlien)                  7.46         7.66      16
Credit Amount (US8 million)                 8.U          6.J. /a   9
Date of Effcti venea                      7/66/79      02/13/U
Date Board Approval                                     6/29/79
Date Physical Cponents Completod           12/9         l1/U
Closing Date                               06/34       se/go
Economic Rate of Return (i3)                24           8
Institutional Perforance                Adequate        Poor
Technical Performance                   Adequate        Fair
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Flcal Years:                 FY63 FY61  FY62 FY68  FY84 FY86  FY66
Appraisal Estlte              3.4   9.6   8.3   5.2   6.0   -     -
(US8 millioA)
Actual (USS million)           -     3.7  3.6   1.3   8.t  8.9   5.4
Actual as X ef Estiate         -      89    21   85   6C   65    98/o
STAFF INPUT (Staff Weeks)
FY78 FY74 FY75 FY76  FY77 FY78 FY79 FYNF FY61  FY2 FY68 FY64 FY65 FY36  FY67 Tote I
Preappraieal   7.7  19.8  8.2   1.6  4.4  48.9  21.1   -        -     -     -     -     -     -     -    1S1.3
Appraisal       5.5   .5   -      -    -      9.2  19.2   -    -      -     -     -     -     -     -     23.4
Negotiation     -     -     -     -     -     -    7.6   -      -     -     -     -     -     -     -      7.6
Supervision     -          -                  -     6.8  6.9  49.4  89.9  26.7  20.2  10.4  28.8  6.5  227.6
Other           -     -     -     -     -     -      .8   -      .5   -     -     2.8   -     -     -      8.6
TOTAL       11.2  19.3 8.2   1.6  4.4  5!.1 44.5  86.9  49.9  89.9  25.7 .28.3  13.4  23.8  6.5  868.5



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Specializa-
Date    No. ot   tions         Performance       Type. ot
Mission        (mo./yr.) Persons  Represented  Rating       Trend Problems
Lb                     Ld   Le
Identification    54/06/78   4       B,D,E,F         -         -       -
Preparation Lf    04/065/77   no      na.            -         -       -
Pro-Appraisal     03/04/78   a       B,D,E,F         -         -       -
Supervision I       08/79    8        B,D,E          1         2       0
Supervision II      11/79    8        B,D,E          1          1      0
Supervslion III     02/80    8        B,E,E          1          1      -
Supervision IV    07/08/80   8        B,D,E          I          1      -
Supervision V     03/04/81   4       B,D,E,F         2         2       U
Supervision VI    11/12/81   3        B,C,D          2         2      M,F
Supervision VII     06/82    2         B,C           2         1      U,O
Suporvision VIII  11/12/82   2         A,P           2          1     U,O
Supervision IX      06/83    8        B,D,E          2         2      M,0
Supervision X       12/88    2         A,P           2          1     M,F
Supervision XI    05/06/84   2         A,P           2          1      U
Supervision XII   18/09/84   8        A,C,P          2         1       V
Supervision XIII 04/05/85   2          A,P           2          1      i
Supervision XIV*  11/12/85   2         A,P
Supervision XV.   64/05/86   2         A,P
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                         Governmsnt ef Bangladesh
Fiscal Year:                      July 1 to June 30
Name of Currency:                 Take (Tk)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year                    1978/79              USS1.00 a 15.00
Intervening Years Average         1979/80              UST1.00 a 16.00
1980/81              US81.00 a 16.34
1981/82              US21.00 = 20.04
1982/83              USS1.00 = 23.76
1983/84              USS1.0W a 24.95
1984/85              US31.00 a 26.06
Completion Year Average           September 1986       USS1.W =  3.00



- iv -
/a  Dlabursement up to August 1906 was USS6.S million and reached USS6.4 million by De#w"'r 1966.
Lb A * Agriculturist; B a Aquaculture Specialist; C * Credit Specialist; D = Engineer;
C a Economiat; F a Fisheries Speciallat; P s Procurement Specialist.
e  1 = Problem-tree or minor problems; 2 a Moderate problems; 3 * Major problem.
Id 1 = Improving; 2 * Stationary; 8 a Deteriorating.
/- F = Financial; M = Managerial; T * Technical; 0 * Other.
/f No mission was sent for preparation. 008 and Resident Mission In Bangladesh wrote the
Project Preparation Report which was sent to IDA Washington.
a As Form 690 was not prepared for Supervision YXV and XV, performance rating wao not
available. For Supervision XIV, the new format was adopted and bating was: Available
funds = 1; Project MOT = 2; D-v. Impact = 1 and Overall Stat. = 2. Rating for Supervision
XV was *ia1m r to that of XIV except for Overall Stat, which was 1.



- v -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       Aquatic resources provide some 80%  of total animal protein intake
for the population of Bangladesh and the Governmen_. gives high priority to
increasing production from the sector.    Oxbow  lakes are a common physio-
graphic feature of the country which present good opportunities for
increased fish production, and this IDA-assisted project was introduced in
an effort to realize the potential for increased fish production from these
previously neglected water bodies.
Obiectives
2.       The project  represented  the  first  attempt  to  develop system-
atically the underexploited oxbow lakes of Bangladesh. As a pioneer under-
taking by the Department of  Fisheries  (DOF), the project was to introduce
new fish seed production and lake management technologies which were
expected to have implications for inland fisheries production throughout
the country.    The  project  included  training  and  technical assistance
components to facilitate the transfer of the improved technologies to
indigenous personnel.
Implementation Experience
3.       Progress was slow in  the  early  years,  mainly  due to delays in
appointing  consultants,  carrying  out   surveys,  preparing  civil works
designs, and selecting and acquiring land.    Work came to a virtual st._id-
still at the end of the second year due to a disagreement between consul-
tants and IDA staff on several crucial technical issues affecting the
design of the central hatchery and lakeside facilities.
4.       The construction stage was prolonged due to continuing land acqui-
sition problems, delays in tendering and awarding contracts, and poor per-
formance by some civil works  contractors.   The operational stage was also
problematic, due principally to weak management, staffing indequacies, and
difficulties in running a commercial venture under the constraints of the
GOB bureaucracy.



- vi -
Results
5.       Average yi.lds at and  subsequent  to  completion remain less than
half appraisal expectations, and the economic rate of return (ERR) is only
3X against an SAR estimated 24%.    However, the introduction by one of the
consultant staff of a mini-hatchery  model involving advanced breeding and
hatching techniques has had a considerable favorable impact among private
fish breeders and pond operators outside the confines of the project. An
alternate evaluation in the PCR which takes account of this unexpected
private sector benefit gives an ERR of 152.
Sustainability
6.       The high investment cost,  inappropriate  design and poor standard
of execution account for the unsatisfactory economic and financial out-
comes, and imply that the project as implemented is unlikely to be sustain-
able without  continuing  GOB  subsidies.    Nevertheless,  the project has
succeeded in demonstrating that the productivity of oxbow lakes can be
increased substantially through use of advanced fish stock multiplication
and lake management  techniqves.    Sustainability  might be better ensured
under alternate organizational arrangements which offer improved prospects
for profitable lake fishery operation (PPAM para. 29).
Findings and Lessons
7.       The technical validity of  the  improved breeding and lake manage-
ment techniques introduced under the project has been confirmed through the
project experience, with yields and production from project lakes having
risen several fold (PPM para. 21 and PCR para. 6.4).
8.       The economic and financial viability  of the techniques remains in
doubt, oecause of inefficiencies in the bureaucratic organization system
adopted (PPAM para. 21 and PCR paras. 6.2 and 6.7).
9.       The mini-hatchery technique demonstrated  under the project (which
was not part of the original design) has been widely adopted by private
fish breeders and pond operators, to the considerable benefit of the inland
fishing industry (PPAM paras. 31-34 and PCR paras. 5.6-5.7).
10.      Formal appraisal was  omitted  and  appears  to  have resulted in
several inadequacies in the project as approved, and added to the
difficulties of implementation (PPAM paras. 22-23 and PCR paras. 7.1-7.5).
11.      Yield and  production  assumptions  used  in  the appraisal report
proved to be over-optimistic, and failed to account fully for the diffi-
culties of running a commercially viable operation under the constraints of
the GOB public service (PPAM paras. 24-28).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
I. BACKGROUND
Context
1.       Bangladesh has considerable aquatic resources which afford a live-
lihood to an estimated 11 million full and part-time fishermen, and provide
some 80Z of the country's total animal protein intake. Annual growth of
fish production in recent decades has been below the rate tf population
growth, thus reducing the per capita consumption of fish. The Oxbow Lakes
Fisheries Project is one of a number of measures adopted by the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) to redress this declining trend.
Objectives
2.       The project  represented  the  first  attempt  to  develop system-
atically the underexploited oxbow lakes of Bangladesh.  As a pioneer under-
taking by the DOF the project was to introduce new fish seed production and
lake management technologies which were expected to have implications for
inland fisheries production throughout  the  country.  The project included
training and technical assistance components to facilitate the transfer of
the Improved technologies to indigenous personnel.
3.       More specifically, within the  project area a substantial increase
in inland fisheries production was expected from development of the six
oxbow lakes and supporting hatchery facilities, which was to improve the
wellbeing of the local fishermen through increased income. The profess-
ional competence of DOF personnel was to be upgraded through provision of
in-service training, and a dependable source of good quality fry and
fingerlings was to be provided to fish farmers in and around the project
area.
Design
4.       The project was designed to be executed by DOF through an adminis-
tratively self-contained Project Implementation Unit (PIU) based at one of
the larger lakes and adjacent to a central hatchery. Seed production, lake
management and stocking operations were to be undertaken by PIU staff,
while harvesting was to be carried out by local fishermen and marketing was
to be a joint operation.   The  financial benefits of these activities were
to be distributed on a 60/40 catch sharing formula between DOF and 600



fishermen beneficiaries.  A total of 130 months o*  technical assistance was
included in the project proposal.
Finance Plan
5.       Total project costs were estimated  at  US$7.5 m. The IDA credit
was to provide US$6.0 mg, equivalent to about 9G2 of the total costs,
excluding duties and taxes of US$0.8 m.
Pre-implementation Process i"
6.       The project as identified in  June  1973 aimed to develop 5,000 ha
of ponds and 15 oxbow lakes totalling 3,000 ha. But deficiencies in basic
data called fcr a considerable preparation effort, including detailed phys-
ical surveys of the lakes, which required much time and effort. A prepara-
tion report was eventually prepared in May 1977. This report limited the
proposal to 15 oxbow lakes with a total water area of 2,315 ha. In this
proposal, the project was conceived more as a rural development project
than as a fisheries project, and its implementation was assigned to the
Integrated Rural Development Program rather than the DOF.
7.       A pre-appraisal in March 1978  recommended a major change in proj-
ect design, with emphasis on the production aspects and exclusion of the
community development components. The DOF was proposed as the implementing
agency, and the project was further down-scaled to six lakes totalling
2,616 acres (1,090 ha), to accord with what was judged to be DOF's limited
implementation capacity. A 24Z economic rate of return was forecast.
8.       Given a general convergence of views between GOB and IDA as to the
revised project concept, it was decided to dispense with a formal appraisal
and to proceed directly to draft a staff appraisal report on the findings
of the pre-appraisal mission. The decisions meeting held in September 1978
discussed only minor issues, such as agreeing to the transfer of control of
the lakes to the DOF from the Revenue Department, and the appropriateness
of continuing the traditional 60140 sharing of proceeds from lake fisheries
between DOF and fishermen.   The  decisions memorandum stressed the need to
pu:sue technical assistance requirements in view of the recognized weakness
of DOF.
9.       Negotiations took place in February, 1979, followed by Board Pres-
entation in late March.   Questions  raised  at the Board reflected concern
that setting up a PIU might not be the best approach to project organiza-
tion, and that the project might be too heavy a strain for a weak, overbur-
dened department to bear.



II.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Start-up
10.      Project effectiveness was  delayed  by  seven months, to February,
1980 owing to difficulties experienced in appointing a project *dviser and
an engineer (PCR para. 2.8).    Thereafter  and for the following two years
progress was slow, being marred by inadequate staffing of the PIU, problems
of site selection for lakeside  facilities and land acquisition, changes in
plans arising from differences on technical and organizational matters
between the consultants and IDA staff, and, most seriously, delay in
commencing civil works construction pending completion of hydrological
studies, and access roads, lakeside facilities and embankment designs, none
of which had been undertaken prior to Board Presentation.
Sequence and Desien Changes
11.      By the end of 1981 progress was at a virtual standstill owing to a
disagreement between consultants and IDA staff on the issue of breeding
technology. The SAR had envisaged a central hatchery at Baluhar Lake capa-
ble of producing 20 million fry annually, supplemented by satellite hatch-
eries at each of the  other  five  lakes.   The hatchling production system
proposed was the conventionial suspended cloth funnel method over rec-
tangular cisterns which was familiar to DOF staff. The consultants, on the
other hand, considered that one large central hatchery, with a production
capacity of 200 million hatchlings per annum, which would meet the stocking
needs of all six lakes and provide additional hatchling, fry and finger-
lings to other water bodies, would be more practical (PCR para. 3.3). They
further proposed the introduction of Zuger jar 1/ hatching .echnology,
which they believed would be more efficient and could be readily adapted to
Bangladesh conditions (PCR para. 3.4).    The DOF supported the consultants
on theLa issues. A November 1981 supervision mission effected a compromise
whereby agreement was reached to expand the capacity of the central
hatchery at Baluhar and to retain the satellite hatcheries, and also to
design the hatchery in such a way as to permit the use of either suspended
cloth net or Zuger jar technology. Subsequent experience has confirmed the
practicality of the Zuger jar and the utility of a central hatchery,
suggesting  that   the   consultants'   proposals   were   technically  and
organizationally the more appropriate, although they seriously over-
estimated the hatchery capacity requirement.
12.      Another important change  introduced during project implementation
at the suggestion of the consultants included a reduction in the length of
lake embankment from an SAR estimated 55 km. to 10 km (PCR para. 3.10).
This modification in design resulted in considerable savings and also
1/ A Zuger jar, as modified for use in Bangladesh, is an earthenware
apparatus which provides a continuous stream of oxygenated water to
facilitate the hatching of carp eggs produced through induced breeding.



-4-
extended the effective lake areas during flood periods thus adding to the
nutrient supply for fish stock.
13.      A further change involved the  addition  of a three ton ice-making
plant and six ton capacity cold store at Baluhar Lake which was intended to
Improve the marketing prospects  (PCR para.  3.13).   These facilities are
seldom used because the local demand for fresh fish is usually sufficient
to fully absorb the daily catch, which is markoted within hours of landing.
14.      Finally, a mini-hatchery demonstration unit using locally manufac-
tured earthenware Zuger jars introduced by one of the consultant staff
proved to be an immediate success with private hatchery operators, who have
readily adopted the system (PCR ;aras. 5.6-5.7). This has led to a consid-
erable expansion in the capacity of the private hatchling industry, much to
the detriment of production at the central hatchery, which is now saddled
with a huge unused capacity.
15.      By the end of 1982 most of the initial problems had been overcome,
design (or redesign) completed and most construction was underway. 1982
saw the first impact of project activities on lake production, although the
impact was extremely variable between lal s, and remains so to the present,
due to differences in the quality of DOF managers and the degree of coop-
eration forthcoming from lakeside fishing communities. The project closing
date was extended by two years, from June, 1984 to June, 1986 to encourage
the attainment of a reasonable level of operational performance.
Management
16.      The full operational efficiencies expected under the PIU structure
did not materialize due to constraints imposed by GOB operational proce-
dures, which limited the authority of the PIU Project Director in ways not
envisaged in the SAR (PCR para. 4.1). This applied particularly to commit-
ment of funds and staffing flexibility.
17.      The standard of management at the  lake level was uneven, and less
than satisfactory at several lakes where managers were frequently trans-
ferred despite protest by the PIU Project Director (PCR para. 4.2).
18.      Management  support  from  the  consultants  was  also  less  than
expected in the SAR (PCR para. 3.33).
Procurement
19.      Time consuming bureaucratic procedures and delays caused difficul-
ties in procurement, and sometimes led to cancellation of contracts.
20.      Civil works contracting posed considerable problems and was a main
cause of delay during the construction phase, due largely to the multiplic-
ity of contracts and the difficulty experienced by DOF in evaluating,



awarding bids and coping with bid cancellations in the case of poorly per-
forming contractors. Delay or poor performance by one contractor often
adversely affected progress by other contractors at the same site.
III. PROJECT OUTCOME
21.      Viewed strictly as an investment, the project as appraised, with a
re-estimated economic rate of return of 3% at completion compared to an SAR
estimate of 24%, must bc  judged  an  economic  failure (PCR para. 6.7) and
also a financial failure on the part of GOB (PCR para. 6.2). But, in spite
of the high investment cost, inappropriate design, and poor standard of
execution, the project has succeeded in demonstrating that the productivity
of oxbow lakes can be increased substantially through the introduction of
advanced fish stock multiplication and lake management technologies, and
that incomes of lakeside fishermen can be increased several fold through
these interventions (PCR para. 6.4).   Furthermore, albeit fortuitously and
contrary to SAR expectations, it has been instrumental in introducing an
improved mini-hatchery technique  into  the  project  area.   This has been
rapidly adopted by private hatchery operators, to the considerable benefit
of the local inland fishing industry.
IV. FINDINGS AND ISSUES
A. Inadequate Preparation
22.      The PCR (paras.  7.1-7.5)  identifies  several '.nadequacie.s in the
preparation and appraisal of this project, which it attributes to the lack
of a formal appraisal.   It  points  out that the pre-appraisal mission, in
March 1978, reduced the number of project lakes from 15 to 6, the lake area
from 2,315 ha to  1,059  ha,  and  the  scope  from a broadly defined ;ral
development format to a more sharply defined fish production and income
enhancing objective, while transferring responsibility for implementation
from the Integrated Rural Development Program to the DOF. These changes
raised many queries regarding suitability of some of the lakes, social
aspects of the fishing communities and institutional arrangements which
remained unanswered in the appraisal report. The PCR also points out that,
while the parameters for lake management and aquaculture technology were
generally sound, the fingerling survival assumptions were seriously under-
estimated, which can in large  part  oxplain the subsequent over investment
in the central hatchery.
23.      The audit  endorses  these  criticisms  in  the  PCR  and would go
further in questioning the decision to declare the pre-appraisal a full
appraisal after the mission's  return  to  Headquarters.   It is noteworthy
that in the case of this project the pre-appraisal was led by the division



-6-
chief of the division responsible for processing the project through to the
Board. His subsequent decision, in his capacity as division chief, to
dispense with a full appraisal mission, in effect short circuited the first
step in the appraisal review process which reduced the possibility for
effectively following up on the outstanding concerns raised during the
preparation and pre-appraisal stages of the project cycle. Separation of
the roles and responsibilities of mission leaders from those of division
chiefs is a strong feature of the Bank's organizational structure, which
fulfills an important quality control function in respect to its principal
operational product. Blurring of the roles, as occurred in the case of
this project, appears to have weakened the quality of the product.
B. Unrealistic Yield Ausum.tions at Appraisal
24.      Annual production from the originally calculated 1,059 ha of proj-
ect lakes at full development, expected to be reached in 1984, was estim-
ated in the SAR as 953 metric tonne, equivalent to a yield of about 900
kg/ha (SAR para 6.01). DOF records (Table 1) show actual annual production
running at less than half the SAR estimate for the four year period 1984/85
through 1987/88:
Table 1
PROJECT LAKES: AREA, PRODUCTION AND YIELD
Fiscal Year
Area
Lake          7ha         _9/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 £2    6154   85/86 88/87 67/68
Saluhar        282 tonne   64   29    33   115   1S5   268   198   201   161
kg/ha  225   69   11   408   649   951   702   712   C42
Jaydia         189 tonr   21    7       18   S5   24   72   77   95   119
kg/ha  109   89    72   294   126   876   403   499   3e0
Fatchpur        47 tonn-    2    2       4     4     a     9    10     8     7
kg/ha   52   42    86   91   72   200   205   161   1S6
Xatgora         71 tonne   -    -        1     2   0.6     6     8     8    20
kq/ha   -    -      1S   80   10   89   111   114   284
Morjat         253 tonne   19   1S    16   22   11   80   14   22   22
kg/ha   74   59    62   86   42    99   44   66   8B
Sergobindapur    217 tonne  a8   21    28   21   23   32   21   87   97
kg/ha  166   94   128   94   104   148   94   400   447
tonne  141   74    96   220   216   412   827   420   447
total:         1059 kg/he  143   69    89   206   203   a88   309   398   423



- 7 -
25.      Four points of interest  emerge  from  the  above figures, (i) the
extreme variation in yield between lakes, and within each lake over the
nine recorded years, (ii) the fairly consistent average yield of around 700
kg/ha being obtained from the best managed lake (Baluhar) over the most
recent three years, (iii) the pronounced increase in average yield from
five of the six project lakes through the project implementation period,
and subsequently, and (iv) the unusually high yield of 924 kg/ha obtained
from Baluhar Lake in 1984/85, which was also a particularly good year for
all lakes in relation to the annual trend.
26.      The yield estimates assumed in the  SAR, on the basis of which the
ERR was determined, can now be seen as over-optimistic in respect to the
overall production level at full aevelopment and to the time required to
reach such a level. Judging from discussions with DOF and Bank staff dur-
ing audit, it is concluded that around 700 kg/ha might be a realistic aver-
age yield expectation under optimum DOF management conditions, which should
include a greater level of lakeside management autonomy and accountability
than is presently practiced, and with an acceptable standard of cooperation
from the lakeside fishing communities.  But se-eral more years of favorable
operating conditions, with appropriate training support, would be necessary
before even this level can be attained, given that the 1987188 average
yield from the project lakes was only 423 kglha.
27.      Even this low figure  may  be  exaggerated given that the c mbined
project lakes area remains officially recorded in the PCR as 1,059 ha, the
appraisal estimate, in spite of the fact that the effective area of the
lakes was increased appreciably through modifications to the embankment
alignment during implementation (para. 12).   The audit recommends that the
area of all six lakes be remeasured, preferably with the aid of aerial
photography, to provide a more accurate basis for future -ield estimates.
28.      Much lower yield estimates should  therefore have been assumed for
tha purpose of appraisal, when fuller account could have been taken of the
long recognized constraints to efficient management of commercial type
enterprises within the GOB public service.
29.      Now that the  technical  feasibility  of increased production from
oxbow lakes has been demonstrated by the DOF project experience it is the
opinion of the audit that the time has come to examine seriously other
organizational options which might lead to higher yields and a satisfactory
level of profitability. These other options might include (i) a specific-
ally mandated, autonomous statutory body; (ii) efficiently managed inde-
pendent cooperatives; or (iii) appropriately regulated private companies.
C. Private Sector Mini-hatchery Development and the Future Role of the
Baluhar Lake Central Hatchery
30.      The DOF central fish hatchery was  intended at appraisal to have a
production potential of 20 million carp fry, subsequently increased to 200



- 8 -
million hatchlings on the recommendation of the consultants during the
design stage. This level of production was intended to meet the require-
ments of all six project lakes in the initial development phase, and later
to supply private fish  farmers  in  the  surrounding  area.   To date, the
facility has never met its full potential; hatchlii.g production having
declined from a peak of 52 million in 1986 to only 15 million in 1988.
31.      However, the decline in production  from the DOF hatchery has been
more than counterbalanced by a massive increase in hatchling and fry pro-
duction on the part of private hatchery operators, who have adopted a mini-
hatchery model introduced by one of the consultants to the project.
32.      The mini-hatchery model  uses  a  technique  previously untried in
Bangladesh which depends on a locally produced earthenware variation of the
Zuger jar for egg hatching. First introduced by the hatchery expert on the
consultant team as a means for producing hatchlings for Baluhar Lake prior
to the completion of the central hatchery, this small low cost facility was
later used to demonstrate the technique to local fish breeders and farmers,
several of whom quickly learned the operating procedures and assembled
their own units on their  properties.    By  the time of project completion
about 35 of these mini-hatcheries were operating in the Jessore area with
an estimated total annual hatchling output of around 500,000 in 1986.
33.      The production capacity of the private sector has expanded further
since 1986. For example, one private breeder visited by the audit mission
in December, 1988 claimed to be producing 200 million hatchlings a year,
and the inland fisheries industry, at least in the Jessore area, has now
developed a vertically integrated structure to the extent that specialized
breeders are producing large numbers of hatchlings at competitive prices
using induced breeding and Zuger jar technology, which are then nurtured by
nurserymen to the advanced fry stage for ultimate sale as pond stock to
local fish farmers.
34.      The successful adoption by  the  private  sector  of the Zuger jar
mini-hatchery technology, which was not foreseen at appraisal but was
introduced by the consultants (and not without some misgivings on the part
of IDA staff during supervision), has had a most favorable impact on the
Bangladesh inland fishing industry, particularly in the Jessore area, which
more than compensates for the unsatisfactory performance of the project as
defined at appraisal. A recalculation of the ERR presented in the POR,
which includes costs and benefits from the private mini-hatcheries, gives a
more encouraging, indeed satisfactory, rate of return of 15%.
35.      While the  final  outcome  is  gratifying  in  general development
terms, this project experience does not vindicate the appraisal, which was
based on the unlikely premise  that  the DOF could profitably operate oxbow
lake fisheries within the constraints of GOB administrative procedures.



- 9 -
36.      Accordingly, given the  present  unsatisfactory economic viability
of the project as appraised, the audit strongly endorses the PCR statement
that the activities at the Baluhar Lake Central Hatchery be redirected
toward fulfilling the function of a demonstration, training and research
center (PCR, para. 9.2), while alternate management options for the lakes
be explored on the lines suggested in para. 29 above.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 890-BD)
Asia Country Department 1
Agriculture Operations Division



- 13 -
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (Cr. 890-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1     Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy in
Bangladesh. In 1984/85, it accounted for about 48% of GDP, 82% of export
earnings and 74% of total labor force. The fishery sub-sector accounts for
about 5% of GDP. In spite of this apparent small contribution of fisheries
to the GDP, the sub-sector provides a livelihood to an estimated 11 million
full and part-time fishermen and supplies some 80% of the total animal
protein intake.
1.2     Bangladesh has considerable aquatic resources including 2 million ha
of open and impounded inland waters, 480 km coastline on the Bay of Bengal
and some 3 million ha of agricultural fields which are flooded 4-6 months of
the year, that can be used for fish production. In spite of this extensive
resource base, however, the growth of fish production in Bangladesh has been
low in the last decade. Annual growth of fish production for the period
1970-75 has been less than 1%, well below the population growth of about 2.8%
per year, thus reducing the per capita consumption of fish. At present, per
capita fish consumption is only about 7.5 kg/year, compared to 13 kg in the
mid-1960s. In order to redress this declining trend, the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) has since independence emphasized accelerated development of
fisheries and has given high priority to the sub-sector.  Following the Land
and Water Study conducted by the World Bank in 1972, GOB requested the Inter-
national Development Agency (IDA) for assistance in the development of ialand
fisheries. IDA responded positively and assisted in the formulation and
finalization of the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project (Cr. 890-BD), whose
implementation was started in February 1980.
1.3     Project implementation was completed in June 1986 and an FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme (CP) mission visited Bangladesh in September 1986
to assist in the finalization of a Project Completion Report (PCR). This
PCR prepared by the mission is based on: the project Identification, Prepara-
tion and Appraisal Reports; the Development Credit Agreement; Project Super-
vision reports; project files of the World Bank; project progress reports;
Final Report of project consultants and Draft Completion Report prepared by
project consultants; and discussions with fishermen and project staff.



- 14 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
Project Origin
2.1      In 1972, a World Bank Land and Resource Study (IBRD Report PS-13)
made tentative proposals for accelerating development of the inland fisheries,
including a suggestion for a pioneer project to develop the country's oxbow
lakes.  GOB followed on these proposals and requested IDA to send a mission
to study them. A project identification mission visited Bangladesh in June
1973. This mission ascertained the development potential of some oxbow lakes
and recommended detailed project preparation works. Project preparation was
completed by GOB in mid-1977, and this was the basis for appraising the Oxbow
Lakes Fishery Project.
Identification and Preparation
2.2      The identification mission which visited Bangladesh in June 1973
identified an inland fisheries project consisting of three components: a fish
hatchery to supply fish fry and fingerlings to a large number of ponds and
oxbow lakes; the development of 5,000 ha of ponds located in five districts of
the Rajshahi Division: and the development of about 15 oxbow lakes totaling
about 3,000 ha, mostly located in Jessore District. The mission proposed to
strengthen institutions concerned with fisheries and to draw on known and
proven technology in the area of carp production. Provisionally, investment
costs were estimated at about US$14.5 million, with a foreign exchange
component of about 39Z. The identification mission found considerable
deficiencies in basic data availability and thus left a list of information to
be collected by the Department of Fisheries (DOF) before finalizing project
preparation, scheduled for early 1974.
2.3      Project preparation was delayed because the detailed physical survey
of the lakes could not be carried out on time for lack of funds by the
Fisheries Department. This survey was initiated only in 1975 when IDA
provided funds to cover the costs of consultants entrusted to carry out the
survey, which was completed in mid-1976. This formed the basis for the
project preparation report dated May 1977, prepared by the staff of the World
Bank Resident Mission, DOF and the FAO Fishery Adviser in Bangladesh.
2.4      The preparation report (Bangladesh:  Rural Fisheries Development
Project - May 12, 1977) proposed the development of 15 oxbow lakes, out of a
total surveyed of 22, with a total water area of 2,315 ha, in Jessore
District. Seven lakes were excluded for reasons of excessive siltation,
vegetation and ownership issues. Project components included rehabilitation
of 15 lakes, construction of 15 hatchery and nursery ponds; construction of
feeder roads and a fish marketing complex in Jessore; community development
including village water supply, cooperative development and literacy training;
and provision of funds for lake operation, equipment, technical assistance,
incremental staff and training. The project, to be implemented over 4 years,
was estimated to cost US$8.8 million (excluding contingencies) of which some
US$2.1 million was allocated for production-oriented fishery components. The
remaining US$6.7 million was allocated for marketing facilities and community
development activities. As prepared, the project was conceived more as a
rural development rather than as a fishery development project. Thus,



- 15 -
project implementation responsibility was assigned to the Integrated Rural
Development Programme. At full development, incremental carp production by
the project was expected to reach 1,480 tons per annum and to yield an inter-
nal economic rate of return of 25%.
Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness
2.5     Project preparation was followed by an IDA pre-appraisal mission in
March/April 1978. The pre-appraisal mission recommended a major change in
the project design to emphasize the production aspects of the project and to
exclude the community development components. Because of the prominence
given to fishery production, DOF was considered best suited for project
implementation even though this would entail the down-scaling of the project
size in line with DOF's implementation capacity. The mission's recommenda-
tions were communicated to COB in an aide-memoire of April 4, 1978.
2.6     GOB informed IDA in late July 1978 of its acceptance of the
pre-appraisal mission's recommendations and requested that steps be taken to
expedite project processing. Given the general convergence of views of IDA
and GOB on the revised project concept, it was decided that a Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) be prepared on the basis of the findings and recommendations of
the pre-appraisal mission. The project as outlined in the SAR of March 12,
1979 aimed at increasing fisheries production by developing six oxbow lakes
and supporting hatcheries; improving the well-being of fishermen through
increased income; up-grading the professional competence of Bangladesh
fishery personnel by providing training on hatchery and lake management; and
provide a dependable source of quality fry and fingerlings for use by fish
farmers in and around the project area in Jessore District (Map 1). Project
investment included: oxbow lake development consisting of the construction of
lake embankments; inlet/outlet culvert works; lake fishery stations (office
space, laboratory and staff quarters) and lake-side hatchery facilities;
construction of a central hatchery complex to supply the six lakes with fry
during the initial phase of project implementation; provision of infrastruc-
ture, i.e. access roads, electrical power and telephone service; provision of
incremental staff, training, expatriate technical assistance and material and
equipment.
2.7     The aquaculture program to increase production was to be based on
a polyculture system using a combination of Indian, Chinese and common carps.
Day-to-day management of the project was to be undertaken by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established at project site and to be headed
by a Project Director who was to report to the Director of DOF. Total
project costs were estimated at Tk 111.9 million or US$7.5 million, of which
37% was foreign exchange. At full development, total annual carp production
from the six lakes was expected to increase sevenfold to reach 950 tons. The
project's internal economic rate of return was estimated at about 24%.
Financial rate of return for the central hatchery and lake improvement was
estimated to be 14% and fishermens' income from carp sales was expected to
increase from Tk 750 to Tk 7,625 per annum at full development. Catch
sharing arrangements were maintained whereby 60% of carp sales revenue was
allocated to DOF and the remaining 40% to fishermen. Direct project
beneficiaries were the 600 fishing families living in the vicinity of the
project lakes.



- 16 -
2.8     The project was presented to the Board on March 29, 1979 and a credit
for US$6.0 million was signed on April 3, 1979. The credit was scheduled co
become effective on July 5, 1979 and conditions for effectiveness were the
establishment of the PIU, selection of consultants and approval of the
Project Proforma (PP) by GOB. However, because of delays in the approval of
the PP and in the selection of consultants, credit effectiveness had to be
extended by about seven months and the credit became effective on
February 13, 1980.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Start-up
3.1     In order to expedite project commencement, IDA sent two supervision
missions before credit effectiveness Li August and November 1979. These two
missions succeeded in expediting the process of meeting the conditions for
credit effectiveness. The PP as initially approved by GOB was inconsistent
with the SARL Some cost categories were different and the project implemen-
tation period was lengthened, thus delaying the expected project benefits.
This was later revised to reflect the project as presented in the SAR. With
regard to the other conditions for credit effectiveness, i.e. recruitment of
consultants, the IDA missions reviewed progress and assisted in expediting
recruitment. Due to misunderstandings between the World Bank Resident mis-
sion in Bangladesh (RMB) and headquarters Washington, DOF started negotiating
with a firm classified as unsuitable for short-listing This was stopped
before negotiations were concluded and IDA requested DOF to select a firm
from among those already short-listed And recommended that the contract be
finalized before February 1980 in order to enable consultants to start site
surveys during the dry season. The contract with the consultants was signed
in February 1980, permitting the credit to be declared from February 13,
1980.
B. Revisions
3.2     During project implementation, some changes in the scope and design
of the project were made, particularly with regard to the central hatchery
complex. The change in design increased the output capacity of the central
hatchery, which was raised up to 200 million hatc}lings per yeer (paras 3.4 -
3.6). Revisions were also made to the lake-side fishery stations following a
survey. With exception of Bergobindapur, the final site selection was dif-
ferent from that proposed by the SAR. Also, as a result of the marketing
study carried out in 1982/83, it was decided to include in the project some
marketing facilities, i.e. ice plant, chilled storage room and insulated
vans. Finally, a small branch of the PIU, with the Project Director and
support staff, was established in Dhaka in 1984 as per the revised PP. Most
of these revisions could have been anticipated during arpraisal process has
this not been sacrificed to gain time.



- 17 -
C. Implementation Progress
Central Hatchery Complex
3.3     The design of the Central Hatchery Complex proposed in the SAR was
d.^astically changed upon arrival of the consultants. The location initially
selected at appraisal proved unsuitable and a new place had to be chosen by
the consultants. Major changes were proposed for: (a) the pond complex, by
increasing the size of the ponds and reducing their number; and (b) the
hatchery, of which the design was modified to increase the output from 50 to
200 million. The pond complex changed from 246 ponds (6 broodstock ponds,
150 nursery ponds and 90 fingerling rearing ponds), covering 36 ha to a final
design (1981) with a total of 29 ponds (6 broodstock ponds, 12 nursery ponds,
4 fingerling rearing ponds and 7 storage ponds), covering 39 ha. From a
management point of view the new design is considered better than the one
proposed in SAR, although management experience has shown that it would be
preferable to have ponds of rectangular shape of approximately half the final
size for fry and fingerling rearing.
3.4     The final hatchery design was considerably delayed due to disagree-
ment between the consultants and the IDA supervision missions. Regarding
hatchling production, an agreement was reached to mix the system proposed by
the consultants (large size Zuger jars) and the one proposed by the IDA
(suspended cloth f"nnels in rectangular tanks). The latter, however, has
never been used by the project staff. For the final size of the hatchery,
the consultants proposed to raise the output from the 50 million hatchlings
indicated in the SAR to 200 million in order to serve all six lakes from a
single central unit and inctease the supply for fish farmers.  However, IDA
insisted in maintaining the independence of each lake in terms of seed
supply, but agreed to increase the output. There were other changes in the
hatchery.  Two circular hatching tanks of large size were built in 1985, to
take advantage of the availability of large quantities of eggs in the peak of
the breeding season. In 1986 new circular tanks for breeders were built
outside the hatchery building, to maintain large size broodstock of delicate
species, such as catla, as the internal rectangular tanks proved unsuitable,
damaging several breeders which bumped against the walls.
3.5     Water &.pply for the hatchery.  Water supply fo- hatchery operation
was provided from tubewells. The water supply for the Central Hatchery
Complex was never satisfactory and the whole system had to be modified.
1riginally, the plans were to operate the tubewells with electric pumps and
to have a water tower for storage of water. It was soon evidernt that due to
frequent power failures the capacity of the water tower waa insufficient to
warrant a continuous operation, and it was then decided to double the holding
capacity of the tank. The holding capacity of the water tower had been
calculated for the average monthly water requirements of the hatchery rather
than for peak requirement. Therefore, it had not enough storage capacity to
run all the incubation and larval rearing tanks in the months of June-July.
In addition, in 1985 external circular tanks were added for mass incubation
and warmer tubewell water was also used for one of the broodstock ponds.
Three tubewells (one deep and two shallow) were built at diffetent steges to
provide enough water for the ha -hery.  In 1985, due to the gro%sng problems
with electricity supply, it was necessary to purchase a generator to ensure a



- 18 -
constant water supply. However, the generator selected by the consultants
was underpowered for the pump in the deep tubewell and could not be used. A
second, more powerful unit had to be purchased in 1986. Also in 1986, to
cope with this situation a new water tower, holding 250 tons m3 was built, as
it was not possible to enlarge the existing one for structural reasons.
3.6     Staff quarters.  During project impLementation the original design
of all staff quarters at the Central Hatchery Complex had to be changed due
to the new standards determined by the Government. Staff quarters were thus
reduced to approximately half of the original planned size.
3.7     Baluhar mini-hatchery.  With the main purpose of training DOF staff
in induced breeding techniques before the Central Hatchery Complex would go
into operation, the consultants designed and built in 1981 a small
mini-hatchery at the old Baluhar fisheries station. The scope was also to
produce seed (hatchling) for the restocking of the lakes pending the
finalization of the main Central Hatchery Complex. The mini-hatchery, built
entirely with local materials at a very low cost, was used for the breeding
of Indian carps initially and of Chinese and European common carp at a later
stage. Operation of the mini-hatchery stopped after 1984.
Fishery Stations at Satellite Lakes and Lake Improvements
3.8     The SAR specified the following works for each of the lakes:
(a) earth embankments of a length of 47.7 km, with 0.6 m feedboard above
the maximum 10-year flood level, to prevent fish from escaping during
the flood season;
(b) inlet/outlet culverts with screens to ensure regulation of water for
cultivated areas adjacent to the lakes;
(c) lake-side fishery stations with office space, laboratory space and
living quarters for lake management personnel;
(d) lake-side hatchery facilities, with shallow tubewells and a single
room of about 60 m2 for hatching tanks, hatchling collection boxes,
equipment and a cement cistern for holding hatchlings; and
(e) dugout ponds for broodstock, fry and fingerlings ranging from 4 to 22
ha depending on lake size and seasonal stocking requirements.
3.9     During implementation the consultants proposed several changes:
(i) to eliminate the small hatcheries at satellite lakes; (ii) to use
lowlands as large ponds for nursery and for fingerling rearing; and (iii) to
modify the dykes surrounding the lakes by building dykes on the limit of the
area delimited by the 25 year highest flood level to allow inundation of
shallow areas and thus be able to make sue of nutrient runoff into the lakes.
3.10    Of these three major changes the first was not accepted by IDA.
Therefore, five small hatcheries of standard designz (2 to 3 million hatchling
capacity per year) were built to make each lake independent from the Central
Hatchery. They were completed in 1986. The use of lowland area for nursery



- 19 -
and fingerling rearing was possible in Bergobindapur (40 ha) and Morjad (12
ha), thus making use of Government land which did not have prime value for
agriculture. However, during their utilization, difficulties were
experienced (notably in respect of water levels in the pond and timely
release of hatchlings), and the need to build "buffer ponds" arose, leading
to the construction of small nursery ponds in 1986. The change in design of
lake embankments resulted in considerable savings by reducing the length of
embankments from 55 km to 10 km and the number of culverts from 275 to 6
water control units and less than 50 culverts. The implementation of this
work, which was merged with the contract for the lake-side fisheries sta-
tions, started in October 1983 and took 2.5 years to be completed. This was
the expected duration at appraisal for the initial design.
Access Roads
3.11    The SAR made provision for financing the improvement of access roads
to all the six lakes. A total of 26 km of asphalt-surfaced roads, with a 6 m
carriageway in the one linking the Central Hatchery Complex to the Kotchand-
pur-Kaliganj road (1 km), and a 4 m carriageway in roads giving access to the
satellite lakes. The embankment clearance would be of 1 m over the 10-year
flood level. The roads were to be built during the dry period going from
end-1980 to June 1981, with a possible extension to the next dry season.
During implementation it was initially decided to limit the asphalt surface
to the roads giving access to the Central Hatchery Complex and to the old
Baluhar f;sheries station (2.4 km), while all other access roads to the
satellite 'akes were paved with herring bone brick (HBB). A new liaison road
from Patibila market to --otchandpur was added (10 kin) giving a final road
length of 32.8 km (Map 2).  By December 1985, it was decided to provide
asphalt carpeting to the roads Bergobindapur-Chowgacha and Chowgacha-Patibila.
3.12    The construction of these roads suffered considerable delays.  One
reason was the need to involve other institutions such as the Deputy Commis-
sioner Office, as road construction is not of the Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock's (MOFL) competence. A second reason was the relative weakness of
some of the contractors who could not expedite the work as required. With
respect to the original schedule (six months for construction of all roads),
the access road to the Central hatchery Complex required eight months
(November 1981-July 1982), and the Morjad Lake access road required 20 months
(December 1982 to August 1984). The Bergobindapur Lake road was completed in
only four months as the work was included in the contract of the lakeside
station and the contractor was able to mobilize all the inputs in time. The
access roads to Fatehpur and Joydia Lakes required eight months to be com-
pleted (January-August 1983) while the access road for Katgora Lake took 12
months to be finished (January-December 1983).  The liaison road between
Kotchandpur and Patibila was completed in 10 months (November 1984 to August
1985). The quality of roads is satisfactory although some portions are
deteriorating as the results of poor maintenance and extensive use by
oxcarts.



- 20 -
Marketing Facilities
3.13     Marketing of carp catches was to be done in Jessore and nearby
districts, according to the SAR. Only trucks with ice boxes would be provided
for transport of fish to the markets. Following the results and recommen-
dations of the marketing study carried out in 1982-1983, a new marketing
facility was built at the old Baluhar fisheries station. Existing savings
were used for its construction, which started in January 1985. The buildings,
housing and insulated chill room of 6 m3 capacity and an ice plant of a
capacity of 3 tons/day were completed in May 1985. The project also built two
tubewells, and provided a generator and two trucks with insulated vans. The
trucks were received by September 1985 and delivered by January 1986.
Px.Klems were experienced regarding customs clearance and payments of bills,
which delayed the delivery and installation of equipment. The inclusion of
marketing facilities in the project during implementation was justified by the
change in marketing policy imposed by the Government, requiring that the bulk
of the production be purchased by the Bangladesh Fishery Development
Corporation (BFDC) for sale in Dhaka. The marketing arrangements through BFDC
proved to be an obstacle in that deliveries were usually not accepted as per
the agreed schedule -nd therefore fish had to be stored in a chill room (after
the chill room became available in 1985) until picked up by BFDC.  The
disadvantage of providing additional facilities was that an additional
management dimension was added to PIU's already strained capability to manage
commercial activities.
Electricity Supply and Telephone Service
3.14     Electricity supply.  According to the original plans of the SAR, an
11 kV line should transmit power from Kotchandpur to the Central Hatchery
Complex. It was also indicated that a distribution system would extend
electricity to the satellite lake facilities. The Banglad- 'k Power
Development Board (PDB) was the agency responsible for the -nstallation of the
electrical system, and the electricity network was to be started by the end of
1981 and had to be finished before the onset of the monsoon season in 1983.
3.15     During the implementation of the project it was decided that two
separate systems should be installeds the first from the Kotchandpur trans-
former to the Central Hatchery Complex, the old Baluhar Fisheries Station, and
the Joydia and Fatehpur lakes, and the second from the Chowgacha transformer
to the Morjad, Bergobindapur and Katgora lakes. Secondary transformers and
meters were to be installed. The PDB and the Rural Electrification Board
(REB) were to be responsible for the first and second systems, respectively.
The requests to prepare the electrification works were processed in November
1982. Electricity was provided to the Central Hatchery by October 1983, but
the progress in the other locations went on at a much slower pace. The
transformers were installed in June 1984 by PDB for the old Baluhar station;
Joydia and Fatehpur had to be changed and the completion of the PDB network
took an additional 15 months.
3.16     The REB network was completed in October 1984 for Bergobindapur, in
February 1985 for Morjad, and in December 1985 for Katgora. Thus, the
completion of the electrification works took three years, against the two dry
seasons



- 21 -
planned in the SAR. Delays were mainly due to cumbersome administrative
procedures and lack of material.
3.17    Telephone service.  According to the SAR, a telephone system linking
the various lake fisheries stations was to be provided by the project. The
telephone system was to be installed by the Bangladesh Telephone and
Telegraph (BTT) and was to consist of two direct lines (Jessore-Baluhar and
Jessore-Morjad), on existing poles. New lines were necessary to connect the
Baluhar with Joydia and Fatehpur and the Morjad with the Katgora and
Bergobindapur lakes. The installation of the telephone network was to be
completed in the coursa of two dry seasons, starting in the last quarter of
1981.
3.18    During project implementation it was decided to have an automatic
connection between the Central Hatchery Complex and Kotchandpur while a
wireless manual system would connect the Central hatchery and the satellite
lakes. Works started in 1984, and the connection to the general network
through Kotchandpur operator was operational by June 1985. The wireless
system was installed in the Central Hatchery Complex in 1985 and became
operational at the satellite lakes fisheries stations in 1986. There were
difficulties to obtain authorization for the wireless telephone as the
military indicated that it could interfere with their communications.
Moreover, the equipment installed at the Central Hatchery Complex broke down
almost immediately and at the time of the visit of the completion mission it
was still out of order.
Staff Recruitment and Training
3.19    Staff recruitment.  The 19/9 PP listed 119 positions to be stationed
at Baluhar lake. Out of this total 74 staff were to be appointed for the
management of the six project lakes. In 1984 the PP was revised increasing
the total personnel to 136.
3.20    The appointment of staff to fill the positions took a long time.
Only 21 positions were filled by the end of 1980, 78 by the end of 1981, 95
by the end of 1982, and 102 by the end oi 1983. Crucial positions, such as
three lake managers, the evaluation officer and the marketing officer took
an excessively long time to be filled. Moreover, the technical qualifica-
tions requested by the Government for key positions such as the evaluation
and the marketing officers, were too low in relation to their respon-
sibilities. This was also the case for lower level positions like pump
operators, where individuals (ex-guards) with no skills in either mechanics
or electr;cal equipment were recruited, putting at risk the operation of the
pumps.
3.21    A recurrent problem in the appointment of staff wias the priority that
GOB places on seniority. This has created problems within the project. A
clear example is the case of Katgora lake, where an efficient junior officer
who was able to substantially increase the production of fish and who suc-
ceeded in reproducing grass carp, was transferred elsewhere in 1985 on the
basis that he was not senior enough to occupy the position. It has not been
possible since then to appoint a good lake manager for Katgora lake. In
other cases, lake managers known to be less efficient, remained in their



- 22 -
positions in spite of many criticisms. The position of a lake manager is a
very important one, as the improvement of lake production will depend on his
ability to produce seed, prepare the lake and stock and harvest the right
amounts of fish at the right time. Since experience in lake management is
gained slowly (only one experiment per year), it is extremely important to
select good staff and to maintain them in their positions until they master
the techniques and retain them for sometime hereafter. However, with the
exception of the Baluhar lake manager, all the lake managers were transferred
to other positions. This lack of concern by GOB for this important aspect
has also limited substantially the transfer of knowledge from the consultants
to the local staff. An example for the misconception regarding staff
requirements is the employment of the accountant. Despite several recommen-
dations by IDA missions that in view of the commercial activities undertaken
by the PIU a qualified accountant was needed, the position was filled with a
clerk who had no training in accounting and only during project implementa-
tion acquired the skills necessary to maintain single entry ledgers and to
prepare withdrawal applications.
3.22    At various times during project implementation there have been com-
plaints about the effective duty station of PIU staff. The SAR specified
that PIU should be stationed in Baluhar lake and the 1979 PP confirmed it.
This was changed in the 1984 Revised PP, in which a PIU branch with the
Project Director and six supporting staff was created in Dhaka. The Project
Director has therefore never resided at the Baluhar Central Hatchery Complex.
In retrospect it appears that many delays in project implementation could
have been avoided, had the project Director moved to the site at the time
when construction began. It should be nnted, however, that a PIU project
office would have also been needed at Dhaka as all decisions for clearances
of budgets, customs and other decisions regarding appointments, plans of
operations, contracts, etc. are finally taken in Dhaka. Cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures of GOB have been traditionally the major causes for
delays in project implementation.
3.23    Training.  Three types of training were offered by the project:
(i) training for DOF stsff through study tours and short-term training
abroad; (ii) on-the-job training, on technical aspects of hatchery and lake
management, and on general project management; and (iii) training for fisher-
men groups.
3.24    Preparation of an external training program started in November 1980,
and was completed by December 1981. In the two following years the program
was revised several times to give preference to countries relevant to
Bangladesh conditions. A total of ten officers participated in the external
training program. In 1984, two officers visited China (Wuxi Training
Institute) for three months training in lake management and hatchery opera-
tion. In the same year one Training Officer was sent to Hungary to study
hatchery operation. He left DOF a month after his return to establish his
own hatchery business. Also in 1984, the first study tour, of one-month
duration, was made to Thailand and Japan. Participants in this study tour
were the Project Director and two senior staff of DOF not involved in project
activities. The Deputy Director was sent for six weeks on a study tour to
France and USA to study general aquaculture and lake management. Finally, in



- 23 -
1986 two lake managers and one additional Director of Fisheries visited
Thailand, China and USA.
3.25    At project completion there were still funds left for training, but
project staff such as the Hatchery Manager who required training, were not
sent for training because the envisaged training period coincided with the
breeding season. The selection of places by the consultant and of trainees
by DOF should have been more rigorous to ensure a better effectiveness of the
external training program.  Out of ten trainees, three were senior DOF staff
not connected with the project.  Several of the places visited had also
little to offer in terms of technology or experience which could be related
to project work.
3.26    The project also provided on-the-job training to project personnel
by working daily with the expatriate consultants. The results of this type
of training have been mixed. The training given by the Carp Hatchery Experts
can be considered good, while that provided by the civil engineer was less
satisfatLory. On-the-job training for project management should have been
the task of the Project Adviser. Since this position was held by three
different experts, the consultancy failed in terms of upgrading the
capabilities of DOF in project management. The upgrading of managerial
skills as a result of the technical assistance provided by the project was
insignificant. The influence of the short-term consultants provided under
the technical assistance was also extremely limited as most of them were
recruited between 1980 and 1982, at the time in which the project was start-
ing to operate, and in some cases even without a local counterpart.
3.27    Another type of training provided by the project was group training.
However, because of the delay in completing training facilities and approval
of the training program and budget, the coverage of training under group
training was limited. By completion, training provided to g.oups consisted
of six short-term courses for fishermen, three courses on breeding techniques
and three seminars. The first four courses took place only in 1985 for the
duration of 8-10 days. Each time, 20 fishermen from Baluhar lake were
trained in lake management. The fifth course (January 18 to February 1986)
involved fishermen from Baluhar, Fetehpur and Joydia lakes. The last train-
ing course for fishermen took place from June 16 to 30, 1986, involving 17
fishermen from Bergobindapur, Katgora and Morjad Lakes. These courses have
been basically theoretical in nature although visits to hatcheries and other
places were organized. Trainees were staying in the dormitory of the Train-
ing Center and received a per diem of Tk 35.
3.28    Three courses on hatchery operation were organized in 1986, the first
course, for assistants working in satellite hatcheries (11 participants), had
a duration of 11 days. The second course for senior officers (12 par-
ticipants) had a duration of 2 days; and the third course for
farmers-hatchery operators had a duration of 12 days. A typical course for
hatchery assistant involved a 3:1 ratio of theory to practice. The last type
of group training courses were workshops and seminars.  Seminars were
organized starting in February 1986, on lake fishery management at the
lake-side fishery stations of Joydia, Fatehpur and Katgora with a participa-
tion of about 15 officers in each seminar. Two workshops were also
organized, one on operation and maintenance of electrical/diesel pumps in



- 24 -
Joydia lake fisheries station (11 participants), and the second on fisheries
cooperatives, for fishermen, district officers and upazila fisheries
officers.
3.29    The approach to training has been too academic, with classroom lec-
tures which may not be the best approach to train fishermen. The project
waited too long to start fishermen training. After discussion with fishermen
grouns, it was evident that by the end of the project they were not motivated
so as consider their direct participation in seed production for stocking the
lakes. The only exceptions were Joydia Lake fishermen, who helped the lake
manager in the harvesting and transfer of fingerlings from rearing pond to
the lake.  However, successful extension work was done by the carp hatchery
expert to disseminate induced breedirg techniques, using models similar to
the mini-hatchery built at the old Balhhar fishery station. A further
problem in the training center has been the almost total lack of specialized
books, journals or manuals, although a budget allocation for it existed.
Consultants and Contractors
3.30    An international consulting firm was selected and the contract was
signed in February 1980. As the consultants proposed a multi-disciplinary
team of engineers and fisheries specialists, the contract was prepared con-
solidating all the funds provided by the project for technical assistance
and for engineering supervision.
3.31    The initial contract provided for 116 man-months of technical assis-
tance, of which 19 man-months for short-term specialists.  The DOF required
that a local engineering company be associated to the consultants for field
supervision, surveys and drawings. In 1982, the contract with the consult-
ants was extended a first time, adding 18 man-months for the engineer,
together with local engineering support, and 12 man-months for the carp
hatchery expert. In 1984, a second extension was granted, covering 12
man-months for the engineer and 11 man-months for carp hatchery expert. When
the project closing date was extended to June 1986, a third extension of the
technical assistance was necessary, adding 8 man-months for civil engineer
services and 10 man-months for the carp hatchery expert. The total time
employed was thus 187 man-months, of which 168 man-months for long-term
experts and 19 for short-term consultants (Table 12).
3.32    For the long-term positions, three experts were used between 1980
and 1984 for the Project Adviser position, two experts in the civil engineer
position between 1980 and 1986, and four as carp hatchery expert between 1980
and 1986, although for the latter, one expert remained in the project from
April 1980 to April 1985.
3.33    Overall, the performance of the consultants can be considered as
satisfactory, if only due to the excellent performance of the carp hatchery
experts. Two negative aspects flawed the general performance of the consult-
ant. First, it should have been the primary objective of the consultant to
assist PIU in overcoming the administrative difficulties in project implemen-
tation stemming from the chronical weaknesses of the Government bureaucracy
in general and the DOF in particular. This task should have been fulfilled



- 25 -
by the Project Advisers who, however, did not develop the necessary commit-
ment to this admittedly difficult undertaking and instead tried to put all
blame for delays and weaknesses in implementation on the Project Director and
DOF. Because of lack in commitment for cooperation, the Project Adviser was
exchanged twice. Second, the consultant did not really try to implement the
project as appraised and perceived it as his princip,al task at project start
up to re-appraise the project concept and propose a great number of modifica-
tions. The discussion of these modifications consumed precious time in 1980
and 1981 until final compromises were reached on a redesign of the Central
Hatchery Complex and the methodology to be used for carp breeding. In
retrospect, it can be said that some of the technological compromises reached
were not in line with the principle project concept of keeping methods and
procedures as simple as possible to achieve sustainability. Examples are the
expansion of the Central Hatchery which now has substantial over-capacity and
the choice by the consultant to use the Zuger jar method for egg hatching
which is a method used mainly in research laboratories and the Horvath method
with the use of anaestesia and organophosphorous pesticides for hatching and
fry rearing. Evidence elsewhere shows that farmers can successfully breed
carp artificially without using the above scphisticated methods which
moreover require timely availability of materials and additional skills. -n
the performance of consultant staff a distinction must be made within the
specialties. While the services provided by che carp hatchery expert were
excellent, engineering supervision, although generally adequate for civil
works, was deficient in selection and installation of electrical equipment as
well as in design of details. Changes proposed in design of facilities, for
lake improvement, and for lake management by the consultants are evaluated
positively. Problems arose, however, in the Central Hatchery pond complex
(erosion of drainage canal requiring its total lining with concrete) due to
inadequate soil sampling and excessive head between the bottom of some ponds
and that of the drainage canal. Serious problems due to engineering design
were also experienced in the water supply for the hatchery (tubewells, water
tanks and selection of generators). Likewise, the performance of the project
advisers was less satisfactory in that they did not succeed in improving the
management standards of the local counterparts. The short-term consultants
(6 in total) had very little effect.
3.34    Local contractors posed considerable problems during project
implementation and were the main cause of delays particularly in the
implementation of civil works. Contracts were allocated on competitive
bidding, following GOB procedures accepted by IDA. The main reasons for the
problems experienced were:
(a) the separation of the work by GOB, in several lots (five groups in
the case of the Central Hatchery Complex, four contracts for the
access road to Morjad Lake), for which the failure of one of the
contractors had effects on the work of others, as shown in the case
of Morjad Lake;
(b) the difficulties to assess the true capabilities of a contractor,
as from the documentation presented at tenders most of them fulfilled
the requirements;



- 26 -
(c) the long time required for the cancellation of contracts and the fact
thet new bidders had to tender their services on the basis of the old
prices; and
(d) the excessive amount of time taken by GOB for payment of bills which
resulted in works often being stopped until payments were made
effective.
3.35     Out of the five contractors assigned for the Central Hatchery
complex, all except the one engaged for the construction of the pond complex
had problems in finishing their work or in procuring the necessary equipment.
At the old Baluhar fisheries station, difficulties were met by the contractors
with the delivery and installation of the equipment for the chill room and ice
plant, due to customs clearances and delays in the payment of bills. In
Bergobindapur, part of the contract had to be cancelled in 1984 as work was
proceeding far too slowly, and the whole contract was finally cancelled in
1985. This resulted in a delay of 1.5 years in the completion of the
buildings. In Morjad Lake, one of the contractors for road construction faced
financial difficulties and surrendered the work, leading to the cancellation
of his contract. In Fatehpur, work progressed very slowly due to the weakness
of the contractor and the first contract was cancelled in July 1984 and a
second contract was awarded only six months later. A better alternative to
this distribution of small contracts, where possible, would have been to award
a turnkey contract to a single contractor responsible for completing the
project, giving him at the same time the possibility to sub-contract part of
the works.
Studies
3.36     At appraisal, it was envisaged to carry out for studies:
(a) a detailed investigation on lake sedimentation to be completed by
September 1980;
(b) an investigation on the 10-year flood maximum levels;
(c) a review of the appropriateness of catch sharing agreements; nad
(d) a benchmark monitoring survey two years before project completion.
3.37     The study on hydrology and sedimentation of oxbow lakes was carried
out in 1980 and was used for the final design of lake embankments. However,
it failed to forecast the quick sedimentation of Katgora Lake. This study was
reviewed in draft form by the IDA supervision mission and was found to be
satisfactory. A floodplain and oxbow lakes study was completed in 1981 by the
project consultants and provided the justification for the new lake embankment
design calculated on 25year rather than 10-year maximum flood levels. The
study was most useful, resulting in budget savings with no loss of efficiency.
The marketing study was carried out in 1982 and was the basis for constructing
the marketing facilities at the old Baluhar fisheries station. The study was
updated by the consultants and PIU in 1986 and provided useful information for
an overall marketing strategy. However, both the study on hydrology and
sedimentation of the lakes and a marketing analysis



- 27 -
should have been done prior to the appraisal of the project. The lack of a
sound sLudy on marketing possibilities for hatchling and fry resulted in an
exaggerated investment for the Central Hatchery, which now has a considerable
over-capacity for the existing demand. The benchmark monitoring survey
(which should have been undertaken by PIU's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in
the early stage of project implementation) including a review of the catch
sharing agreements, was conducted by consultants in 1985, too late to serve
any effective purpose for project implementation and evaluation. The survey
was considered to be a poor one.
Lake Management
3.38    According to the SAR, the day-to-day management of the lakes and the
Central Hatchery Complex was the responsibility of the PIU, based at the
Central Hatchery Complex and with six lake managers attached to it. PIU
staff were to be responsible for: (a) implementation of physical facilities;
(b) seed production; (c) lake management in terms of lake preparation and
determination of harvesting periods and quantities; and (d) stocking opera-
tions. The PIU was also entrusted, together with fishermen, with the market-
ing of fish, while fishermen were expected to harvest and land carp at the
landing sites built by project.
3.39    The main objective of the lake management program proposed by SAR
was to raise the total production of carps in the lakes from 138 tons/year
to 953 tons/year at full development. The SAR's lake management program was
based on controlled stocking and harvesting of a combination of Indian major
carps (catla, rui and marginal), Chinese carps (silver carp, grass carp), and
common carp. Seed was to be produced at hatcheries. Appropriate control
measures against predators (live bait angling and seine netting) were
proposed. Control of snails would be done by stocking black carps, or cat-
fishes of the genus Pangasius. Stocking densities of 8,000 hatchery produced
fingerlings 1/ per hectare were proposed.  The SAR contemplated also the
fertilization of the lakes once grazing of submerged weeds had started.
3.40    During project implementation, the day-to-day management of the lakes
was taken care of by the lake managers. The Carp Hatchery Expert, being in
the project area was able to advise and supervise the various lake managers.
3.41    Technical aspects of lake management were, however, considerably
changed for the better during implementation. These included the removal of
floating vegetation (essentially water hyacinth) by using chemical products;
no fertilization of water in the lakes; reduction of fingerling stocking
densities from 8,000/ha to 1,800/ha; no catfish (Pangasius) stocking as the
European strain of common carp could also consume snails; determination of
stocking rates and quantities of the various species according to the biomass
of sumberged weeds and its composition by species.
3.42    Development of the six lakes has not been simultaneous.  As the
Central Hatchery Complex was built at Baluhar Lake, where a Fisheries Station
1/ Five to six inches long.



- 28 -
also existed, this has been the only lake that was developed from the begin-
ning of the project. During its development some problems forced modifica-
tions in the proposed lake management schemes. Two problems were the
inability of project staff to breed catla and black carp in sufficient num-
bers, and GOB orders to limit the presence of grass carp in the lakes to the
period of November-June to protect paddy fields from damage in case of escape
of fish from the lakes. In 1984, grass carp caused some damage to paddy
fields when they escaped from the lakes as the result of exceptional flood-
ing. A third problem was the difficulties faced in stocking of common carp,
which proved to be very susceptible to poaching. An additional problem which
arose during project implementation was the conflict of interest between rice
farmers and lake managers in relation to the regulation of water levels
inside the lakes. While the lake managers wanted to maintain the highest
water levels possible in their lakes, the rice farmers protested due to
either the flooding of their plots or to lack of water released for irriga-
tion. These conflicts were serious in Baluhar and other lakes and forced the
lake managers to work with less water than they wished.
3.43    The lake managers' performance has varied greatly from one lake to
another. Overall, the managers who stayed longer in their posts have done
better than others, such as in Baluhar. A decisive factor about the lake
performance has also been the level of cooperation of fishermen. For
instance, the less than satisfactory cooperation of some fishermen in Morjad
is one of the reasons for the poor production levels of that lake. In Mor-
jad, after the first lake manager had failed dealing with the social
problems, the second manager was also not successful in solving the problems
and is in the process of being transferred. With regard to lake managers,
the situation is as follows: only one with enough experience to carry out his
job without much assistance (Baluhar), three with insufficient experience
(Bergobindapur, Joydia and Fatehpur), one with little experience (Morjad).
The post of Lake Manager at Katgora is vacant.
Procurement
3.44    Before credit effectiveness, the project authorities had already
prepared equipment and vehicle tender documents which were reviewed and
approved by IDA. It was decided from the outset that bulk procurement for
some items, such as vehicles, was advantageous while for specialized
laboratory and hatchery equipment it was preferred to await the consultants'
recommendations. Therefore procurement of equipment other than hatchery and
laboratory equipment had progressed well.  In December 1981, already 7 of
the 11 cars, 8 of the 12 speed boats, 3 of the 10 motorcycles and 5 of the 16
bicycles were procured. At the same time, bids for a total of 51 lots of
hatchery equipment, pharmaceuticals, fishing gear, tractors, office equipment
and furniture were called under International Competitive Bidding and were
being analysed.  Serious problems however arose with regard to the second
procurement of hatchery equipment and material. The tender for this was
opened in June 1983 but the letter of credit was finalized one year later.
In the meantime, prices had escalated and the supplier declined to supply the
equipment at the old prices and the contract had to be cancelled. A new
tender was floated in January 1985 and there were no bidders. Thus GOB had
to resort to prudent shopping in May 1985 and the equipment and materials
reached the central hatchery in March 1986.



- 29 -
Project Costs and Financing
3.45    Total project costs up to June 1986 amounted to Tk 181.09 million
(US$7.66 million) compared to appraiual estimates of Tk 111.87 million
(US$7.46 million). Project expenditures are about 62X more than appraisal
estimates in Taka terms but only 3Z more in US$ terms. The moderate increase
in US dollar terms as compared to the Taka is due to the devaluation of the
Taka throughout the implementation period with regard to the US dollar. The
substantially increased Taka expenditures are the result of the combined
effect of delayed implementation (about 24 months) and of the substantial
increase of costs in lake improvement and technical assistance. Details of
annual expenditures and comparison between appraisal and actual costs are
shown in Tables 1 and 2 respectively.
3.46    The project achieved savings of US$0.62 million from the IDA Credit,
final disbursement reached US$5.38 million. This means that IDA's share of
financing dropped to 70X as opposed to 80Z estimated at appraisal and GOB's
share increased from 201 to 3nz as shown below.
Comparison of Costs and Financing
Appraisal Estimates and Actuals
Appraisal
Estimates                Actuals
Total Costs (US$ million)         7.46                    7.66
Amount of Credit (US$ million)   6.00                      5.38
IDA financing (Z)                   80                       70
GOB financing (X)                   20                       30
Disbursement
3.47    As the result of delayed implementation of project civil works,
disbursement has continuously lagged behind schedule (Table 3). Total dis-
bursement up to the end of FY1982 amounted to only US$0.8 million or 21% of
appraisal estimates. Another reason for the belated disbursement was the
slowness of the PIU in submitting applications for withdrawal. For example,
in December 1983, the project had accumulated expenditures for about Tk 18
million but not submitted for withdrawal until the IDA Supervision mission
urged the project management to submit outstanding applications. However,
disbursement picked up steadily from 1983 onwards and reached US$5.3 million
in August 1986, which is 881 of the credit amount (US$6 million). Final
disbursement reached US$5.38 million by the end of December 1986. This left
a saving from the credit of US$0.62 million, which was cancelled.



- 30 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
General
4.1     PIU's performance was not as expected at appraisal since its autonomy
was limited as it had to function under normal GOB procedures which are
lengthy and time consuming.  Throughout the project implementation period,
PIU was not able to proceed quickly with procurement of equipment and
materials and to fill staff posts expeditiously. The reason for this was the
need for PIU to refer to its line department and Ministry for every little
item, particularly if the items were new or present changes from the original
PP. The Project Director had the authorization to commit funds up to
Tk 5,000 (about US$152) only for purchase of equipment or repair of vehicles
and only Tk 500 for purchase of material at a time. In addition, he did not
have any authority to create temporary posts and transfer funds from one
budget line to another. Since the expenditure to be incurred was generally
beyond the above-mentioned limits, authorization had to be obtained from
several offices in Dhaka. As a result, long delays occurred between request
and approval, some leading to cancellation of contracts (para 3.35). The
activities of the PIU were therefore limited to bureaucratic works and the
documentation of p-oject works rather than active management of the project
as envisaged at appraisal.
4.2     Development of lake managerial skills were also less satisfactory
because of frequent transfers of lake managers with the exception of Baluhar.
PIU's protest for these frequent transfers were regularly ignored by GOB.
However, hatchery management has been satisfactory due to the continuity of
the hatchery technical staff who benefitted from the constant assistance from
the carp hatchery consultant.
4.3     The project established a good relationship with the fishermen
although the level of cooperation differs from one lake to another. The role
of the lake manager has been crucial in establishing a good working relation-
ship and in advising fishermen on fishing methods and schedules. A notable
exception has been Morjad, where the presence of two competing communities
has not facilitated smooth cooperation with the lake management (para 5.17).
The existing loose cooperation among fishermen has been strengthened by the
project through some training, involvement in fish marketing and in the
surveillance and management of the lakes. In Fatepur, Baluhar, Bergobundapur
and Joydia, fishermen are now actively involved as a group in assisting lake
managers.
Reporting and Accounting
4.4     The DOF was expected to record project progress by means of quarterly
and annual reports. During implementation, periodic progress reports were
prepared by the consultants which consisted of monthly repoits in 1980, 1981,
1984 to 1986 and bi-monthly reports in 1982 and 1983. Annual reports were
also prepared until 1983 and a final report in 1986. The reports were
regularly submitted to IDA. Initially, the quality of reporting was less
satisfactory in that the reports lacked the necessary information, par-
ticularly on fish production and marketing. From 1982 onwards, however, they



- 31 -
improved after the format and content of reporting was better defined by the
project management and IDA.
4.5     IDA supervision missions have continuously reported that the account-
ing system kept by the PIU was not satisfactory because the staff were
familiar with GOB procedures but not with commercial accounting practices
that should have been introduced to reflect properly the commercial business
undertaken by the ptoject. The missions therefore recommended the
strengthening of the accounting staff and the establishment of a proper
accounting system. GOB agreed with the recommendations but little was done
to improve the project accounting system because there was no post for a
qualified consultant (para 3.21). Only the minimum requirement-, the estab-
lishment of separate accounts, were fulfilled. The last supervision report
of May 1986, still mentions the need to improve the project's accounting
system. Auditing of project accounts was also irregular. In spite of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) requirement that audited accounts should
reach IDA six months after the end of each fiscal year, this was not adhered
to. For example, the auditors from the Director-General of Aided Projects
completed their work for FY81 and FY82 in March 1984 but reports were not
submitted by the end of FY84. Similarly, the audit for FY84 which was due
in Deceu*.er 1984, commenced only in May 1985. The situation improved when
IDA paid more attention to the audit question in general in all projects and
served notice to suspend disbursements unless the audit covenants were met.
Although at completion all audit reports until FY85 had been prepared,
throughout the project implementation, auditing of reports was not timely and
DOF was slow in commenting observations made in the audit reports or by IDA.
Compliance with Covenants
4.6     After delays and several reminders by IDA, GOB has complied with most
of the major covenar.cs. Complying with covenants that specified the review
of catch sharing between fishermen and GOB and that concerning the benchmark
survey (para 3.37) was delayed excessively. The latter was completed only in
1986 and no use could be made of it.  As mentioned above, .he covenant which
specified that audits of project accounts should be submitted to IDA six
months after the close of each fiscal year was not complied with.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Fish Production
5.1     Project output are carps for the local markets and hatchlings/fry
for sale to fish farmers. Project output per year is shown in Taoles 4 and
6 and is summarized below:



- 32 -
Annual Fish Production Estimates
Harketable Carps           Fry             Hatchlings
(tons)             (millions)          (millions)
SAR (at full development)        950                    20                  50
Actual (at completion)           326                     1.2                53
Forecast (at full development)  820                     10                 100
5.2      The marketable carp production is smaller than that envisaged at
appraisal because the performance of the small lakes, Katgora and Fatehpur,
will be about 25Z less than that of the larger and deeper lakes. Also,
restrictions imposed on water management and grass carp stocking will limit
the maximum output to about 800 kg/ha/year as an average for the larger lakes.
The forecasts are based on projections of the actual status taking into
account the level of development of each lake, socio-economic problems and the
managerial capacity of project staff. Forecast estimates were discussed with
PIU and the carp hatchery-cum-training consultant. Fingerling stocking by
year is shown in Table 5.
5.3      Hatchling production targets established in the SAR were modified
shortly after the project started, raising the expected output from the
Central Hatchery to 200 million hatchlings per year at full development, of
which 158 million would be sold to fish farmers. Actual production is much
lower due to problems encountered in relation to water supply and electricity.
Concurrent to the development of the Central Hatchery, the private sector
started building mini-hatcheries based on the model designed by the consul-
tants at the old Baluhar Fisheries Station. At the time of project com-
pletion, there were 32 new mini-hatcheries producing an estimated 500 million
hatchlings and employing 209 people. The operation of these mini-hatche:ies
has seriously limited the possibilities for sales of hatchling by the Central
Hatchery.
5.4      Fry production by the project was only 1.2 million at the time of
project completion, less than 1OZ of SAR targets at full development.
However, the opportunities to sell any excess production of carp fry in
Jessore District appear to be almost nil, due to the preference of fish
farmers for advanced fry (2.5" - 30) offered by private nursery operators, now
more active due to the operation of the mini-hatcheries. Potential markets
for fry may exist, however, in other districts. In the opinion of the manager
and of the consultant, the maximum fry output which could be obtained from the
Central Hatchery pond complex would be about 10 million fry per year.
Technological Change
5.5      The project has had a major technological impact in three areas of
aquaculture: induced breeding, introduction and use of exotic species and
lake management. The results of transfer of induced breeding techniques and
the result of the introduction of the exotics can be now considered as
consolidated.



- 33 -
5.6     Induced breeding, although known in Bangladesh before the start of
this project, was not a popular practice among fish farmers. Usually, seed
production facilities beinig large and expensive were considered to be some-
thing that only Government could afford. A major impact was made by the
project by showing the private sector that with a relatively modest invest-
ment, it was possible to build a commercial and profitable hatchery and that
techniques to produce hatchlings were within the reach of ordinary people.
In addition, it demonstrated that all inputs required for production could be
obtained locally.
5.7     The technology introduced for seed production in the mini-hatcheries
is similar to that used in central Europe. By joining sections of sanitary
pipe made locally with clay, with a clay funnel and a screened outlet
designed by the consultant, and built by local potters, it was possible to
produce cheap zouger jar incubators of 250-300 litres capacity, able to hold
500 g of eggs per batch (for Chinese and Indian major carps). A smaller -
20/30 litres - clay incubator was designed and introduced for common carp.
Shallow tubewells, water towers for aeration of underground water and an
elevated tank or cistern, were also introduced to the private sector to allow
use of good quality water for egg incubation and larval rearing. The use of
fish pituitaries for induced breeding was also introduced by the project.
5.8     The project also introduced the use of anaesthesia to estimate larvae
biomass and to separate good quality seed from deformed larvae and unhatched
eggs. Another technological development introduced by the project in the
Central Hatchery has been a new type of circular incubator, with central
funnel to be used as a larvae separator for incubation of up to 10 kg of
eggs/batch. However, as pointed out in para 3.33, evidence elsewhere in the
world shows that induced breeding can be employed with techniques which are
net as sophisticated as those introduced by the project consultant.
5.9     In respect to nursery techniques, the project has introduced, with
success, the Horvath method, developed in Hungary, to reduce predation from
insects, one of the main causes of massive hatchling mortalities. This
method consists in the use of a mild organophosphorous pesticide, to treat
the pond a few days prior to the stocking of hatchlings. The pesticide kills
aquatic insects and larvae of dragonflies as well as planktonic crustaceans,
and thus favors the growth of rotifers which are an excellent first food for
fish hatchlings. It degrades in only a few days. This method has proven to
be efficient and is being employed by all the lake managers and it can be
expected that nursery operators in the district and elsewhere in the country
will adopt it.
5.10    The project has also introduced modern, but complex, lake management
which entails stocking of five species with different feeding habits.
Although the management of lakes has still to develop further, the introduc-
tion of this polyculture system is a major technological innovation in lake
management in the country. Although not specifically included in the project
objectives, it was intended to develop a systematic approach to addressing
the production capacity of lakes and other water bodies. This intent did not
materialize because the high revolution centrifuge needed to separate biomass
and minerals from water was never delivered so that a scientific measuring of
the biological productivity of the water bodies was not possible. The impact
I



- 34 -
of the external training on technology development has been very limited.
Few technicians were sent abroad and the selection of many of the places
visited was deficient, particularly in respect of lake management. Study
tours especially for lake management, were useless.
5.11    At the time of project completion, one private entrepreneur was
trying to manage his lake following the methods introduced by the project.
This is an encouraging sign and could lead to further adoption of this com-
plex technology by other entrepreneurs. The transfer of know-how to local
counterparts could have been accelerated by the earlier start of training of
fishermen's groups, to get them directly involved in lake management, and
especially with DOF paying more attention to the selection and training of
lake managers. In order to consolidate and build on the lake management
technology, GOB has extended the services of the project Carp Hatchery Expert
for one year beyond project completion. It is expected that this will
enhance further the technological development in lake management, althoug'h
more Bangladesh technicians and scientists need to be involved to make this
technology transfer effective.
Social Impact
5.12    The project had a remarkable social impact.  The envisaged poverty
alleviation of the 600 landless fishermen's families has been achieved.
Their income has risen substantially in four lakes (para 6.4) and the
improvement in their living standard is proudly explained by the
beneficiaries.
5.13    Fish farming in Jessore District as a whole has also improved under
the project and benefitted many fish farmers mainly because of the estab-
lishment of mini-hatcheries introduced by the project. The expected sales of
158 million hatchlings by the SAR have increased by more than threefold as
the private sector produced about 500 million hatchlings in the 1986 breeding
season. Two new activities have also flourished as a result of this interest
in mini-hatcheries. The first is a new market for fish pituitaries which has
opened up in Jessore District, as these are the only ovulating agent widely
available in Bangladesh. Pituitary glands were sold at Tk 10/piece (over
US$200/g) in 1985. The second industry is pottery; it has been estimated
that 700-1,000 finished jars of 250-300 1 capacity have been sold since 1982.
These clay jars are becoming a standard for incubators in the country.
5.14    Roads built by the project had a positive effect on rural areas
around the lakes. These all-weather access roads have significantly con-
tributed to the development of trade of agricultural products in the project
area through the establishment of new market places in Morjad, Fatehpur and
Katgora, and by giving access to trucks and buses in areas which were pre-
viously isolated. Smuggling of agricultural products to India, quite common
in the past due to the vicinity of the border, has been reduced by offering
the farmers a way to distribute their product in the country. New bus lines
have been started on the roads built by the project. The line Chow-
gacha-Kotchandpur accommodates 16 buses per day in both directions, and the
route Chowgacha-Katgora 6 buses/day.



- 35 -
5.15    Electrification of the fishery station at the project lakes has also
contributed to the improvement of irrigation. New tubewells with electric
pumps have been installed in the surroundings of Katgora and Bergobindapur
Lakes and household electrification has taken place particularly around
Katgora Lake.
5.16    The project has experienced some social problems due to conflicts of
interest with the local people. The first conflicts arose with rice farmers
and concerned the regulation of water levels (para 3.42) in lakes and the
screening of inlets and outlets. Difficulties were also faced in the con-
struction of road dykes as the culverts were not draining water sufficiently
and thus farmers cut the dykes in several points to allow the draining of
their fields. Additional conflicts with farmers arose as the result of the
escape of fish in 1984, when grass carp caused some damage to paddy inducing
farmers to request exorbitant compensation. The screening of lake inlets and
outlets was introduced to prevent fish from escaping into agricultural fields
during the monsoon. Conversely, paddy farmers complained that the screening
deprived them of the fish they used to catch in their plots. This resulted
in more poaching in the lakes.
5.17    The studies conducted during preparation and pre-appraisal to inves-
tigate social conflicts were very superficial and in the case of Morjad lake
the lack of knowledge about the local population had negative consequences.
Morjad area was known locally as being very backward, isolated and violent.
Two fishermen communities fished in the lake. It was very difficult to
convince one of these communities to stop using gillnets and, inevitably,
violence erupted. The second lake manager reached an agreement with the
fishermen, but the production of the lake never improved.
5.18    During project implementation, GOB decided that all production from
the lakes should be sold to the Bangladesh fisheries Development Corporation
(EFDC). This decision was unilateral as it involved also the (40%) produc-
tion share of the fishermen. It also changed the market strategy envisaged
in the SAR. Although BFDC's involvement and fixed prices should have had a
stabilizing effect, in fact there were serious complaints from fishermen
concerning the differential to market prices, particularly the loss of oppor-
tunities to sell locally during the time when prices were high, and delays in
payments. Local consumers complained bittecly that production which could be
sold locally was being exported to Dhaka. In the course of 1986, the
relationship with BFDC improved (Table 7) and the completion of the chill
room in Baluhar facilitated carp marketing. The situation, however, remains
unclear concerning fishermen's autonomy to decide what to do with their
share, and concerning the present unsatisfied demand for carp in the dis-
trict. Fishermen also complain about the catch sharing arrangement and
believe that their share should be raised from 40% to 45% or 50%.



- 36 -
VI.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
DOF Financial Performance
6.1     Cash flow prejections for the Central Hatchery and lakes have 'cen
prepared in which 60% of the carp production (GOB share) and production of
all hatchlings and fry have been taken as benefits. The investment costs,
operating results and cash flow are shown in Tables 1,2,and 9-12. Investment
cost is calculated on the same basis as in the SAR and includes 20% of expen-
diture on infrastructure, 50% of technical assistance and training costs and
100% of all other investment cost. The net cash flow is expressed at first
in current prices and then in 1985/86 constant prices using the general cost
of living index 1/.
6.2     Because of the combined effect of increased costs and delayed accrual
of benefits, the resulting net cash flow is negative until Year 8 as opposed
to Year 4 expected at appraisal. In addition, with present knowledge, taking
into account the conditions and potential of lakes, total production is
expected to stabilize around 820 tons at full development as opposed to 950
tons estimated at appraisal. As a consequence, the financial rate of return
(FRR) to GOB would be negative instead of 14Z calculated at appraisal. The
financial rate of return would still be negative even if the project produc-
tion reaches 950 tons. Sensitivity analysis shows that cash inflows should
increase by 124% or cash outflows should decrease by 55% in order to achieve
a financial rate of return of 10%.
6.3     Although this analysis as made during project appraisal gives a
measure of the degree of cost recovery - about two thirds over a 25 year
period, excluding interest - it tends towards pessimism. First, the analysis
is only in regard to returns to DOF. It can be argued that the 40% of
production accruing to fishermen also constitute a project benefit. Also,
investment costs include taxes and duties of Tk 9.6 million, which if
excluded would increase cost recovery over a 25-year period (excluding inter-
est) to about 69x. Second, it can be expected thac some part of the
increased incomes of the beneficiary fishing families would contribute to
increased tax revenue. Third, the nature of the investment in pioneering
inland fisheries development will very likely have f"tl\re benefits in
increased national economic activity and improved nvtvi tion which would
affect recovery losses incurred in this project.
Fishermens' Income
6.4     As shown below, fishermeiis  ir.come'has increased substantially at
completion in Joydia (10 fold), Fatehpur (7 fold), Baluhar (6 fold) and
Katgora (3.5 fold) unlike in Bergobindapur and Morjad where no significant
increase took place, reflecting the persistently low production in these two
lakes. Overall, fishermen's incomes for all lakes are expected to reach an
1/ The general cost of living indices used are 58,62,67,76,86,93 and 100
for the period 1979/80 to 1985/86.



- 37 -
average of Tk 8,830 (US$267) at full development as opposed to Tk 6,687
estimated at appraisal. The expected income levels compare favorably with
the GNP per capita of US$130 in 1984.
Fishermen's Incomes From Carp Production
At Full
Lakes             Without Project         At Completion          Development
Carp 1                 Carp 2/               Carp
Produc-  Average 1/   Produc-  Average 2/  Produc-  Average 3/
tion    Income         tion    Income        tion    Income
(tons)    (Tk)         (tons)    (Tk)        (tons)    (Tk)Y
Baluhar          48.1      1,146        197.72    6,850       225.60    8,650
Joydia            31.1       600         76.75    6,000       151.20    9,812
Fatehpur           3.8       253          9.55    1,800        28.20    4,758
Morjad            14.4       462         14.22      485       201.60    8,904
Bergobindapur    32.1      1,100         20.53    1,450       173.60    9,763
Katgora            7.8       427          7.81    1,500        42.60    7,986
TOTAL            137.3       750 4/    326.59    3,509 5/   822.80    8,831
1/ Staff Appraisal Report.
2/ Project Implementation Unit.
/  Assuming number of fishermen remains same as at completion.
4/ Number of fishermen, 600.
5/ Number of fishermen, 786.
Economic Performance
6.5     An economic re-evaluation has been carried out for the project in
which the total carp production and fry/hatchlings produced at the Central
Hatchery have been taken as benefits. Carps have been valued at Tk 21.09/kg
(Table 8), and hatchlings and fry at Tk 12,500 per million and Tk 300 per
1,000 respectively.
6.6     All administrative and operating costs have been included in the
analysis while a proportional share of 50% of training, technical assistance
and infrastructure costs were excluded from the economic analysis as they
were also meant to serve general fisheries and local communities nearby the
project area. Duties and taxes have been excluded from the cost streams and
unskilled labor has been valued at 75% of its market value. It has been
estimated that unskilled labor amounted to 80% of lake improvement, dugout
ponds and infrastructure costs. Local costs (67% of total) have been brought
to border prices by using a standard conversion factor of 0.83. All costs
and benefits are expressed in 1985/86 constant prices using the general cost
of living index 1/.
1/ As per footnote to para 6.1.



- 38 -
6.7     On the basis of the above assumptions, the economic rate of return
for the project is estimated at 3% (Table 11), which is considerably lower
than the 14% estimated at appraisal.  The reason for such a wide difference
is due to the marked increase in investment costs and the delay in accrual
of benefits, as explained in para 6.1. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
the economic rate of return would increase to 10% if benefits increase by
52Z or if costs decrease by 34%. An alternative calculation under inclusion
of the costs and benefits from the production of 500 million hatchlings in
jessore District generated by about 30 mini-hatcheries using the technology
introduced by the project, would increase the ERR to 15% (Table 12).
VII. IDA PERFORMANCE
Project Design and Appraisal
7.1     In retrospect, final project design appears flawed due to the lack
of a proper appraisal process. The many changes introduced from identifica-
tion to appraisal have not resulted in solving issues concerning the success-
ful implementation of the project. The 1979 pre-appraisal mission raised
many queries on the suitability of some lakes, social aspects and institu-
tional arrangements which reflected the unpreparedness of the project.
However, in spite of this, its report was upgraded to a full appraisal
report. The pre-appraisal mission requested a study of lake hydrology and
sedimentation, which should have been part of project preparation.
Socio-economic and marketing studies should also have been conducted prior to
appraisal.
7.2     The study on lake sedimentation gave a wrong conclusion with respect
to Lake Katgora. It dispelled the doubts raised by the preappraisal mission
by indicating that there were no serious problems concerning sediments
accumulation. The report was analysed by IDA and accepted as satisfactory.
Since no real study of the socio-economic conditions of the target group had
been carried out during project preparation or appraisal, the problem of
Morjad Lake communities was not recognized in time.
7.3     The design and size of the Central Hatchery Complex proposed by the
consultant and approved by IDA was not based on sound market analysis.
Marketing of excess production of one inch fry is now a problem for the
Central Hatchery Complex. Regarding the organizational structure of the
project IDA insisted in the establishment of a PIU in Baluhar. There are
voices which argue that this concept did not take into consideration IDA's
past experience in the country in relation to decentralized projects. As all
the paperwork has to go through a cumbersome process in Dhaka and most of the
decisions are taken there, it would have been wiser to consider at least a
dual management with an office in Dhaka and the second at the project
facility. As it turned out, although the main project office was transferred
to Baluhar, the Project Director for personal reasons traveled only sporadi-
cally to Jessore and stayed the rest of the time in Dhaka, so that this
argument does not hold up.



- 39 -
7.4     The approach for lake management and aquaculture was generally sound
in technical terms for appraisal. The selection of polyculture, already
considered in the initial identification, was correct, like the size of the
fingerlings to be stocked. Survival assumptions made at appraisal were
however not correct, indicating 8,000 fingerlings/ha, which is more than four
times the number required for the same level of production. Although no
detailed plans of the Central Hatchery Complex facilities were available at
the time of appraisal, the pond complex proposed by IDA war too complicated
with many small ponds more like in a research facility, which would have been
impossible to manage efficiently. Its cost would have been far in excess of
that budgetted if one judges from the cost of the actual pond complex, which
has a simpler design.  Finally, as to the program of work proposed, stronger
emphasis had to be placed on priority for starting production in the lakes
and involving fishermen in project operation than for infrastructure develop-
ment.
7.5     The fate of the project after completion was not properly analysed
by IDA. While it was clear that DOF would have to be involved in introducing
lake management practices during construction and initial operation, a public
sector involvement was not necessarily the best arrangement for long-term
commercial operation. As described in para 4.1 the fact that DOF was asked
to operate a commercial facility through PIU which did not have managerial or
financial, let alone legal, autonomy was incompatible with the objectives of
sound commercial operation. The design selected and the uncertainties of IDA
during supervision, when the consultants proposed in the design phase to have
a larger Central Hatchery to serve all the lakes, clearly indicate that the
question of sustainability was not seriously considered. It would have been
more efficient to entrust even the construction and initial operations to a
semi-autonomous body attached to the Ministry that could have been created
specifically for these purposes rather than to DOF. After full development
by DOF the operation of the six lakes could have been transferred to the
private sector. This would have permitted to gain valuable experience with
respect to private sector lake management. Since this chance was missed, such
experience will have to be gathered in repeater projects. A first attempt is
being made in the IDA-supported Shrimp Culture Project (Cr. 1651- BD) where
management of large shrimp ponds is envisaged through farmers groups. In
retrospect it can be said that during preparation and up-grading of prepara-
tion to appraisal IDA underestimated the bureaucratic difficulties inherent
in the government administration that would later hamper project implementa-
tion. Had an appraisal taken place, the institutional arrangements might
have been designed more realistically.
IDA Supervision
7.6     Project supervision by IDA was continuous from the start, involving
staff from both Washington and RMB. The first supervision mission took place
from August 9 to 21, 1979, shortly after project signature and the last one
in May 1986. A total of 15 supervision missions took place, the first seven
and the ninth being from Washington. Six supervision missions were from RMB
and the twelfth jointly by Washington and RMB. Intervals between missions
have been rather irregular ranging from 3 to 8 months, but have not differed
significantly from what was recommended in the supervision reports, except
for 1981 when there were delays of up to three months.



-40-
7.7     The first two supervision missions were concerned with accelerating
the fulfillment of conditions for effectiveness. Later, they were more
involved in sorting out details of site selection and technical design for
the Central Hatchery Complex. The missions held lengthy discussions on the
design of the Central Hatchery Complex proposed by the consultants, so caus-
ing an unnecessary delay of about 10 months before giving IDA approval.
Although the supervision missions checked carefully whether project implemen-
tation was proceeding according to the plans, they did not suggest, or
influence, any changes to adapt to new situations, like the intervention of
BFDC in fish marketing, or the unexpectedly fast development of
mini-hatcheries in the district.
7.8     For mini-hatcheries it would have been perhaps more opportune to
reduce the expected hatchling output at the Central Hatchery Complex rather
than to invest more money in tubewells or additional water towers without
much concern to the financial and economic viability of the project. Follow-
ing the same line, after finding that there was no market for small fry in
Jessore District, the fry production program could have been adjusted to
offer advanced fry of 2-3 inches.
7.9     Supervision missions did not pay enough attention to two important
points for the success of the project. The first point was external training
for project staff. IDA was too passive with regard to agreeing to places to
be visited or people going abroad for training. The selection of the places
visited on study tours was not very effective to improve the staff's skills
needed under the project.
7.10    The second point was lack of understanding of the need for a better
project management organizational structure and to ensure that managerial
skills be transferred through the technical assistance component. The super-
vision missions also failed to point out the seriousness of the lack of clear
management for the project after completion. Given IDA's experience in
Bangladesh, it was not difficult to anticipate the problems that the project
is now facing with regard to flow of funds to operate the project (para 8.1).
VIII. ISSUES
8.1     The following issues are important for the future development of the
project.
(a) short-term issue. The project was transferred with considerable
delay from the development budget, which has been exhausted with the
completion of the project on June 30, 1986 to the revenue budget.
DOF had not succeeded in accomplishing this until September 1986 and
had its doubts whether it would be able to do this before 6-8 months
given its past experience. At that time, a large number of project
staff had not received their pay and the project did not have suffi-
cient funds to operate the facilities. If this situation continues
it may result in loss of trained staff and fingerling production and
stocking of project lakes.



- 41 -
(b) Long-term issue of sustainability. From the experience gained during
project implementation, it is clear that management of commercial
fisheries under normal GOB procedures is difficult or even impossible
because of lengthy bureaucratic requirements for the approval of
works and budget, and later for release of funds and execution of
works. For example, PIU is not allowed to cover its project expendi-
ture from sales revenues, all revenues must be paid into Treasury
accounts, all expenditures must be paid from Treasury accounts. This
arrangement is not suitable for the operation of the project, even
with all good intentions, given the nature of fish production and
marketing which require a precise sequence of events starting from
breeding, nursing and harvesting. Optimum production cannot be
achieved if the sequence is disturbed. Under normal Government
procedures, it is very likely that approval of works and release of
funds will be delayed as demonstrated during project implementation.
In addition, the project management cannot act quickly if some
extraordinary events occur that require immediate decisions. For
instance, if emergency works of a certain magnitude emerge, such as
breakage of pumps, generators or damage on lake embankments, the
Project Director is not in a position to act immediately but has to
refer to his department and ministry for authorization of funds,
which might take months before he finally obtains it (para 4.1).
This needs to be redressed along the lines suggested in para 9.3.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.1     The project has succeeded in demonstrating that the productivity of
traditionally managed oxbow lakes and the well being of fishermen can be
substantially increased by the application of modern lake management techni-
ques combined with sound aquaculture practices. In addition, it has proven
that this technology can be transferred to local technicians through
organized training and demonstration. The induced breeding techniques for
carp introduced by the project, using appropriate technology, has been widely
spread in Jessore and nearby districts. The production of carp seed from the
private mini-hatcheries has gone beyond expectations and is benefitting large
numbers of fish ponds. Spin-off effects of the project in the surrounding
areas have also been remarkable. Project roads have positively contributed
to the development of new rural markets and transport of people and goods has
increased in volume. Likewise, the electricity network established by the
project has enabled the installation of tubewells for irrigation purposes and
some house electrification.
9.2     In spite of the above, however, the project has not yet met the
production targets envisaged at appraisal. Although production has increased
threefold from the pre-project period, only Baluhar lake has met the expecta-
tions, the others lakes produce less than half of the target yield of 900
kg/ha. The main reasons for this were excessive delays in the development of
the lakes and in providing related facilities, lack of continuity of lake
managers and GOB's slowness in processing contracts for construction and
procurement, and its disregard for recruiting competent staff. As a conse-
quence, the financial and economic viability of the project are lower than



- 42 -
empected at appraisal and it appears that the Baluhar Central Hatchery will
have a future that is more directed toward fulfilling the function of a
dewuonstrationr training and research center for the surrounding area,
activities for which it would be difficult to quantify the benefits.
9.3     At present, the project is being operated by the Department of
Fisheries under its normal departmental procedures. This arrangement does
not appear to be satisfactory for the management of commercial fishery opera-
tions because of the management limitations in decision-making with regard to
production, marketing and utilizaticn of funds. The sustainability of the
project is thus in danger if the project management has to depend on the
department for all decisions related to the operation o' the project includ-
ing the amount and timing of delivery of necessary inputs. The project
management is not authorized to use a revolving fund or to borrow money from
banks. Although funding for the project has been transferred from the
development to the revenue budget it can not be expected that project manage-
ment will ever have sufficient autonomy to operate the lakes on sound commer-
cial principles. If this can not be done under GOB departmental regulations,
consideration should be given to operating the project through private or
parastatal institutions/organizations.
9.4     Lessons Learned.  The Main lessons that can be drawn from the
experience with this are:
(a) formal appraisal is a vital step in the project cycle; abbreviating
or omitting it may contribute to an inadequate assessment of the
project's feasibility (paras 7.1-7.5);
(b) management of a fishery operation along commercial lines should not
be entrusted to a government agency, particularly when this agency
has no financial autonomy;
(c) if a project introduces limitations in production (paras 7.5 and 8.1)
technologies through public sector management have a potential for
adoption by the private sector the project should be tailored to
provide for a transition from initial public sector management to
ultimate private sector adoption of such technologies (paras 5.3,
7.7-7.8); and
(d) during project design and appraisal, recommendations for location of
project management should be guided by practical considerations (para
7.3).



BANG,ADESH;
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 890-8D2
Prolect CoAts
1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86    Total
................................... (Tk'O00) .................
Land acquisition                   709     3.634      2.000        -         -          -          -        6.343
LaNe improvement                   -          -        -           932     4.181    10.826       8,856     24.795
Hatchery facilities                -          -       2,534      8.199     2.i56        879      1.543     15.511              w
w
Dugout ponds                       -          -       1,234      6.442     2.741        879        -       11.296              1
Equipment and vehicles             631     2.223        499      S5.42     2,341      1,064      3.009     15,309
Infrastructure                     -       1.500      6.317    17.795      3.500        982     5.449      35,543
Engineering and
administration                     382       472        633        869     1,186      1.704     3.062       8.308
Technical assistance             3.705     5.545      3.299      5.632     7.560      5.773     7.201      38.715
Training                           -         -          -          -         792        157        693      1.642
Operating costs                  1.175      1.322     1.583      2.055     2.471      2.462      2.988     14.056
Duties and taxes                   -        1.150       -         .5200    _l.SQ8    t.692          25      95SJi
TOTAL                            6.602    15.646    18.*099    52.666    28.636    26,418    32.826    191.093
Source: Project Implementation Unit.                                                                                             |



8ANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 690-80)
Comparison Between ADora1sal Costs and Actual Expenditures
ARoraisal Estimates                     Agtual Expenditures
(Tk'O0O)   (USS'OOO)   (% of Total)  (Tk'000)   (USS'000)j/ (# of Total)
Land acquisition                          3,308.2        220.5           3         6 343.0       366.96          5
Lake improvement                          2.616.1        174.4           2        ?4 795.0       890.60         12
Hatchery facilities                       7.982.0        532.2           7        i5 511.0       64e.45          8
Dugout ponds                              3,064.7        ?04.3           3        11 296.0       476.30          6
Equipment and vehicles                    9,006.0       600.4            8           309.0       659.88          9
Infrastructure                           27,931.0    1,862.1            25        35,543.0    1,499.05          20
Engineering and administration            7,590.0       506.0            7         8.308.0       326.88          4
Technical assistance                     10,818.0       721.2           10        38.715.0    1,717.66          22
Training                                  1,011.0        67.4            1         1,642.0        58.76          1
Operating costs                           5,949.5       396.6            5        14,056.0       604.64          8
Price and physical contingencies         32,597.4    2,173.2            29            -           -             -
Duties and taxes                        . _-_                          9-575-Q                   415.37          5
TOTAL                                   111,873.9    7,458.2           100       181,093.0    7,662.55         100
========       s======        ==-=====-=====
1/ Average annual exchange rates used are: USS1.00 to TkiS.48; Tkl6.34; Tk20.04; Tk23.76;
Tk24.95; Tk26.06; and Tk33.00 for the years 1979-80 to 1985-86 respectively.
I!



CANGLADE H
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 890-1D)
Disbursement of Credit
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Fiscal Year            Annual        Cumulative            Annual       Cumulative
................... .(USS million) .
1980                 0.4            0.4                   -              -
1981                 1.4             1.8                0.7             0.7
1982                 2.0            3.8                 0.1             0.8
1983                 1.4            5.2                  1.0            1.8
1984                 0.8            6.0                  1.2            3.0
1985                                                    0.9             3.9
1986                                                     1.4            5.3
(up to August 1986)
1/ Final disbursement is expected to reach USS5.5 million by December 1986.
-X
0S
4,
WI



OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. B90-801
Hatchltno Production by Vear
DsiLADIntAn                   S.nccas                    JJA_   JJa   1983    JJM3                       t2UA  1j       Total   Parcmnt&Ba
(million hatchlings)  / ..
Mini-"atchery              Silver carp                     1.80   7.43   10.18   10.86         -              -           30.27        77
Gross carp                      0 11   1,19    2.05    0.25         -              -            3.60         9
Mtirror carp                     -       -       1.09      -        -              _            1.09         3
Indian major carp                    -           0 8      3.80      -             -             446         11
Miscellaneous                    -                        0.10      -             -             0.10        -
Sub-total                                                  1.91   8.62   13.99   15.01         -             -            39.52       tOO
Centre) Notchery           Silver carp                                              1.86      9.24         16.42          24.26        31
Gross carp                       -       -0.72;                    1.08           1.90          3.70         4
Mirror carp                      -       -        ^      3.56      7.19          0.93          12.29        14
Indian major carp                -       -        -       -       12.00         32.60         44.60         S0
Miscolaneous                    -       -                -         -            0.57           0.57          1
Sub-total                                                           -        -      5.90    30.11          52.42         80.43        100
Lsa%aido Hatchery         Silver carp                       _-                                 -            3.00  2        2 3.00      30
Grass carP                               .                                       2.20  V/       2.20        22
Mirror carp                      -       -        -       -          .D.7D  2                   0.70         7
tndian major carp                                                                4.00  11      4.00         40
Miscellaneous                                                                    0.10  17       0.'0         I
Sub-total                                                   -       _        _                             10.00  ]I      10.00       100
Totel                      Silver carp                     1.60   7.43   10.18  12.48         ' 24         19.42  I/    60.65          43
Grass carp                      0.11   1.t9    2.05   0.97          .0          4.10  17       9.50         7
mirror corp                      -               1.09   3.56       7.79           1.63  If    14.07         11
7ndian major carp                -       -       0.66   3.80    12.00 .         36.60  2/    53.06          36
Miscellaneous                    -       -        -      0.10       -            0.67  V/       0.77         1
GRANO TOTAL                                                .L3I   8  6     t98  209 S        30-lt         A2.42  J    137J   5 9S10
'p to August.                                                                                                                               -_
a1 illion hatc-li98  S m 2 bg
*arget *o* 1986.



IANGLAPESH
OXBOW LAsES FISHERY PROJECT (CRf. 890-8 )
Finaerlina Stockina by Fiscal Year
1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86
.................. ('000 units).
Pro1ect Lakes
Baluhar                       240        616       433         716        482
Joydis                        299        266       145          120        199
Fatehpur                       63          3        45          47          95
Morjad                        288        196        55          135        143
Bergobindapur                 161        204       143          127        177
Katgora                        -          33        36          101         68
1.051      1,318       857       1,24t,    1.164
Sources Final Report and Project Implementation Unit.
-4
01
0r



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 890-80)
Fish Production and Value of Produce (t1979-80 to 1985-86) and Pro1-ction up to 2003-04
1979-80  1980-81  1981-82   1982-83   1983-84  1984-85  1905-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91
12
2003=04
..... ....................................... (tons) ........................
Production of
ProIect Lakes
laluhar           63.62    29.15    32.92   115.22   154.63   268.48   197.72   211.50   225.60   225.60   225.60   225.60
Joydia            20.56      7.66    13.47    55.58    23.98    71.00    76.75   !03.95   141.75   151.20   151.20   151.20
Fstehpur           2.45      1.95     4.11     4.25      3.31     9.44     9.55    14.10    21.15    28.20    28.20    28.20
Morjad             18.82    15.00    15.55    22.02    10.64    24.96    14.22    37.80)   63.00   100.80   163.80   201.60
Bergobindapur     35.64    20.36    27.78    20.62    22.58    32.00    20.53    86.80   130.20   173.60   173.60   173.60
Katgora             -         -       1.12     2.07      0.53     6.32     7.81    10.65    17.75    31.95    42.60    42.60
Total  1/        141.01    74.02    94.97   219.76   215.67   412.21   326.59   464.80   599.45   711.35   784.00   822.80
.............................................. ..................................................(TM-000).
Value of Total
Production 2/   1657.51  1029.38  1328.59  3502.41  3525.19  6568.81  6894.41  9802.63 12642.40 15002.37 16534.56 17352.85
I/ Production figures up to 1985-86 are provided by the Project Implementation Unit. Projections from 1986-87 are
estimated by the mission together with the project staff.
Z Values up to 1985-86 are in current prices as provided by the Project Impl .nentation Unit. while from 1986-87
onwards are in cons;ant 1985-86 prices.
0T
'I
Gl



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 890-BD)
Fish Prices Paid by BFDC (1985 and 19861
Size                    _Ru1      Catla     Mriaal       Grass Corp      Mirror Caro      Silver Caor
(kg)      ..                                .. ............ (Tk/kg) ................................
July 1985 - May 1986l
Up to 1.5                        20         18        18             16               14               10
1.6 to 3.0                      22         20         21             18               16              12
3.0 and above                   25         22         23             20               18               14
June 1986 to Present
Up to 1.5                        28         22        24             20               20               15
1.6 to 3.0                      32         25         27             23               2,              17
3.0 and above                    36         28        30             2S               26               20
Source: Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporat'ion and Project Implementation Unit.



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR. 890-8Q0
Averaae Price of Fish Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
Proportion of    Price of Fish   Price of Fish
Species         Qyeraae Weight   Proiect Output    Relative to           Relative to
(kg)                (%)             Size t/       Proportion gf
Production
.......... (Tk/kg) ..........
Rul                     1.0                  17               28                4.76
Catla                   1.5                  14               22                3.08
Mr4gal                   1.0                 8                24                1.92
Grass carp              2.0                  15               23                3.45
Mirror carp             2.5                   1               23                0.23
Silver carp             2.0                 4S                17  ._.65
Total weighted price of fish                                                   21.09
J/ Prices of fish by size are shown in Table 7.
-o



BANGLADESH
OX8OW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT ICR. 890-8D
Onerstina Results for toe
1979-80          19i0-So      _  1981-82          1992-83           1983-84         1984-86 5935-ge
L.   i,  Qil   1    £   DLR    I    I   Qil    t    E   flLR    I    I   flLA    1    £  DI    i    £   LUI
..................................................    (T 000   ..................................................
Proiect Lakes
Baluhar         461  279 1.65   281  415 0.68   295  401 0.74  1153  579 1.99  1548  717 2.16  2474  664 3.73  2261  552 4.10
Joydia          142  193 0.74    58  164 0.35   101  320 0.32   528  303 1.74   222  289 0.77   778  271 2.87  1178  378 3.12
Fatehpur         19   83 0.23    Is   78 0.23    35   99 0.35    35  139 0.25    29  152 0.19    84  179 0.47   135  301 0.45
Morjad          131  246 0.53   119  186 0.64   134  404 0.33   192  321 0.60    93  19S 0.48   209  234 0.89   139  344 0.40
Bergobindapur  240  165 1.45   163  152 1.07   222  253 0.88   178  315 0.57   217  316 0.69   314  390 0.81   324  540 0.60
Katgora          -    -   -       -   104  -       10   62 0.16    15  112 0.13      6  172 0.03    77  178 0.43   101  264 0.38
Total          993  966 1.03   639 1099 0.S8   797 1539 0.52  2101 1769 1.19  2115 1841 1.15  3936 1916 2.05  4138 2379 1.74
1s   I = income; E = expenditure; O/R = operating ratio (I/E).
Source: Project Impleme.t.ation Unit.
'0



QXQSt#ES£1H£LArA#KSq       t_9  E
Tear                       1          1           2          3           4           S          6           7           9          9          16          11       12-25
Cash Sale if carp  I/                  -     1,657.51   1,629.39   1,320.59   3,512.41   3,525.14   6,568.91   6,994.41   9,812.63  12,642.46  15,612.37  16,534.56  17,352.85
Central Hatchery fry7hatchling         -          -          -           -           -        554.66      413.60      258.11     451.61   1,525.11   2,125.61   3,325.6t   3,325.11
sales 1/
SLb-total                              -     1,657.51   1,129.38   1,328.59   3,512.41   4,079.14   6,981.91   7,152.51  16,252.63  14,167.46  17,127.37  19,959.56  21,677.85
Less fisher ms' 411 catch share        -       U63.11      411.75      531.44   1,401.96   1,411.19   2,627.52   2,757.76   3,921.65   5,156.96   6,111.95   6,613.82   6,941.14
TOXTAOL                                -       99  St      617.63      797.15   Lffl A&     2,669.16   4,M5119   LA4.2 7    L311 58   L1166 . I2 .U                     74  1  73b.71
Total Cash Intlov in 191596            -     1,714.67      996.t1   1,189.78   2,765.07   3,103.56   4,602.03   4,394.75   6,331.58   9,116.51  11,126.42  13,245.74  13,736.71
Constant Pr ces
2/ 
CASH 04TLO M. 
Staff salaries                         -       382.11      472.        633.61     969.00   1,19666l   1,704.11   3,662.01   3,162.11   3,162.01   3,U62.16   3,662.11   3,162.11  t'
Oper LtiM Cests  U          -      1,'75.11      322 is 6  ,S3601   2,155.11   2,471 0   2 462.03   298.01   3,4 6.11   3,551.61   31                  3,725611   3,725
9ort   it   4/                                      ,.I                                                                                            I So
Iuest         t Cssts 5                -      , 93.66  11,1816.1       I I 11  32,69.060  18,613.60  19,501.10  18,471.10          -           -      1,    116  1,61 6.11   1,11111
TOTA!L_5 i   !EFLO                     -        2!L!! 4A11    a! 1R9Thd! LIUM    046   2A ! 66?L0!  22.667 I!  2442.1 66         4624 !    j,61.ij    769 7.7fi6 !2.M .1!   72.!!
Total CAsh Qtflem in 1985/66           -     8,199.65  19,151.61  17,160.96  46,961.52  25,186.04  24,373.12  24,521.61   6,462.16   6,612.66   7,697.66   7,797.61   7,787.61
Constant Prices
NET cASH nOW                             -    -3,755.49 -11,256.37 -16,599.95 -33,512.55 -19,996.94 -19,312.71 -20,125.25    -131.42   2,499.51   3,429.42   5,450.74   5,949.71
NET LCAS  FLOI IN _95i 5esigM            -    -6,474.98 -18,155.44 -t5,919.18 -44,095.46 -22,092.49 -19,691.09 -26,125.25    -130.42   2,498.56   3,429.42   5,458.74   5,949.71
frn lable 6.   2J  Fro  Table 1.
3/  tears 5e   are ac mals. Production in Year 9 refers to ule of hatchlings onl  at  kl2,511  er million.  From Year 9 onwards
-   sale If hatchliqgs would stabilize at 51 million per fear while sales o  fry womld be 3 mii ion in Year 9, 5 million in Year 16
and 9  illion from Year 11 nards.  Price of fry is Tk366 per 1,666.
4/  Up 1. Year 7, costs are actuals.  Year 8 is based on DOf bmdqet request.  From Year 9, forecasts are based on the increase of fry
and fingerlings at Tk6.3/fingerlinq and Tk25 per 1,101 frw per lear.
51  V       toToar 7  costs are actoals and from Year 11 pnvards tki iiBn Der ear has been a lled for replacement of equipment.
milocat in t  niestment costs has been made on the same basis as in  heSP, i.e. ZoZ f infrastrmrtcre costs; 51S rf"tehnical                                                           C
assistasce and trainin costs and 1101 of all other investment costs.
6/  Using general cost of Iving inde  of:  58, 62, 67, 76, 96, 93 and 100 fron 1979/80 (Year 1) to 1985/96 (Year 71.                                                                      o



CXBMLAKESJS         J% LC9Lt-SH
Economic Ao.jvsis
(Ti '111)
Topr                 I         1           2          3           4          5           6          7           8          t          16       11-25
COSTS
Inuestmst costs           -     7,172.11  15,227.11  16,233.10  37,455.16  19,919.11  1,739.01 20,858.nl             -          -        ,6.66   1,666.6
Staff salaries                    658.06      761.16     944.11   1,1143.00   1379.06   1,832.11   3,162.t1   3,162.61   3,162.11   3,62.11   1,662.11
Operatin  costs           -     2,626.6    2,132.01   2,363.66   2,714.11   2,973.66   2,64761   2,9981.6    3,43.600   3,551.16   3,635.66   3,725.66
fishermen's labur         -       451.66      450.00     451616      456.61     525.01      525.11     525.10      525.1     525S11      525.11     525.16
S1Ita1                    -    11,366.11  18,571.66  19,"1.16  41,752.6  24,686t0  22,743.11  27,433.60   6,9871.   7137.61    8,222.16   8,312.66
Carps                           2,858.66   1,661.16   1913.6    4,j68,60   4,199.16    7,063.11   6,894.16  9,863.0   12,642.16  15,612.66  16,535.66
Hatchlings/fr-                      -           -          -           -        644.01      444,01     258.60      450.61   1,525.11   2,125.11   3,325.11
Shb-tat4l                 -     2,858.11   1,66.06    1,993.61   4,61861.   4,743.01   7,517.66   7,152.00  11,253.09  14,167.66  17,127.66 11,861.11
NET EENEFITS                -    -7,448.11 -16,911.10 -t8,167.16  -37,144.60 -19,943.60 -15,236.16 -26,28t160   3,266.06   7,136.16    8,905.66  11,5408.6
1/ Investanet and operating costs equal to corresponding financial costs, adjosted for doties and taxes. Investment costs exclude 5Sl of technical
assistance, training and infrastructure costs as the proportion relevant to the project. From Year 11 onwards, Txt million has been allowed to
cover replacerent of equiprent. All costs have been brought to I905/86 prices. Fishermen's labonr has been valed at TkiS after adjustment
assuming 56 full working days. Nxmber of fisherMen is 66  p ts Yer 4 and 700 from then mnwdrds.
2/ Ualue of carpphatchling has beei brought to 195/86 prices.



3A.DESH
O1101 LES FISHERT  MRJECI  Credit 9*90-1
Cashtlou Pmjection or RNain Prject witll inihatcwries (Tk 000)
IM90    1981    1912    1983    1984    t9E1      1996    1987   t189    IM9  199-1991    12    13    19M              199I     19  17-199        199  23-2001    2002    2003    2104
EC010!1C BENEFITS
N'91ECT SALtS                   2858    1660    1983    4608    4743    7507    7152   10253   14167   17127         19960   198606 0 190   19960          0   1160      1M90   190          I"      195   190   1960
MIWIHAICERY SLES                   -        -       -        -       -    3750   13125   26250   33750   33750       30000   37500   37500   33750   30000   30000       37500   33750      30000   37500   37500   37500
SUBTOTAL ECWOIIIC BEPErITS    .285       1660    1983    4608    4743   11257   20277   36503   47917   50W77        49960   57360   57360   53610   49160   49960       57M0   53610       4960   5360   57S    5V0
ECtOUIC COSTS
PR0JC1 COSTS                   10306   19570   19990   41752   2469    22743   27433    6997    7137    8222          8312       12    8312    9312    8312    912         9312    9312       U312   U31:    312    9312
ININWATCHERY COSTS                 -        -       -        -    4000   10000   14000   10000   10000   50000       10000   10000   11000   12000   12000   10000        10000   10O       100100   100    11000    5000
SUBTOTAL ECOiMlIC COSTS        10306   18570  1990   41752   29686   32743   41433   16997   17137   19222          18312   19312   19312   2012   20312   10312    1312   18312    1312   1312   19312   13312                  U'
INCREIIENTAL NET IKIEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
YET IREIIIITAL BENEFITS        -7448  -16910  -18007  -37144  -23943  -21486  -21156   19516   30780   32655         31543   3O   3049   33293   29548   31549           39048   35298      3154    30    3M         404
IN4TERAL OATE 0F RETIRN   142                                                                                                                                                                    _
Miach 24, 1919  17:40
I4



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT (CR.- 890-BO)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE .
Man-       t980            1981           1982            19a             1984            1985           198a
Ronths
Project Advisor        48   :
Project Engineer       13                      -                                                                                  l
Carp Expert            69                                                               _             -
Civil Engineer         38                                                            _,
Total Long-term       168                                                                                                         l
M'arketing              3
Aquacut jrist           0.5                               .                           _
Statistician            0.8       _
Fisherman               I                           _                                                                             l
Consultant
Engineer                8.Q    _  _  _        _                   -
Hydrobiotcgist          4.8 _           _    _        _
Total Short-term       19.0_._l
Grand Total           187.0        .      _ _                                   .                                               _
LocaL Engineer                         -                                 _       _                                                l
Support                      _ r  l



MAP SECTION



MAP I
5  ow ,  ZBA N G  L A D E S H
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAKES LOCATION
N1
vf;° !( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~noOtcort  \-- nwrtl s      ndos.
'I. FARIDPUR
2r  INDIA                                                         Noo t
- <   n  ;R    .  He"re /        D f)X~~j/Kh.ie    Monmrnmpue
zES H1                                          0 rooJ    \   g   /    23-00'2
@3W!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2-,                     4 o  ?_z o t 
I     5     10 _S        20
49-00,                11~~~~~~~9- 15.



MAP 2
8 A N 0 L A D E 8 H - OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT / PROJECT- COMPLETION REPORT
r 7<r>QchIIadng                             PROJECT  LAKES
AND MAJOR INFRASTRUCTURE
*I                   / 
8 6Darena
Jibons e"         v2 
ASPHALT ROAD                                                               *sto
_- ._"3. ROAD
SEASONAL ROAD                                                            ,
.~RIVER
-=   TELEPHONE LNEt
-     . - -ELECTRIC LINE
*   NKW S.T.W. ELECTRIC
o    NEW MARKET
NEW BUS LINE
Bona Pole
.4.
o        *        10
.   Km        ..



