Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P-2490-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
March 15, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 30.52 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently,
the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1         -  Tk 15.0
Tk 1         -  US$0.067
Tk 1 million a US$66,667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)             =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)             =  1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)  =  640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)             =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)            =  82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)      -  26.8 md
M                       -   million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BFDC   -  Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation
BJMSS  =  Fishermen's Cooperative Societies
BJSB   -  Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank
BKB    -  Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSB    -  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BTT    -  Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department
DANIDA -  Danish International Development Agency
DFO    -  District Fishery Officer
DOF    -  Department of Fisheries
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSMF   -  Fish Seed Multiplication Farm
GOB    =  Government of Bangladesh
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
PDB    -  Power Development Board
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
TCCA   -  Thana Central Cooperative Association
TFO    -  Thana Fishery Officer
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF -  United Nations Children's Emergency Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Composite Fish Culture  -   Growing two or more species of fish
in a pond to optimize productivity;
often synonymous with polyculture or
mixed fish culture.
Fingerling               -   Young fish of about 2.5 cm or larger.
Fish seed                -   Fish from the stages of egg to large
fingerling.
Fry                      -   Fish from hatching stage to about
2.5 cm size.
Hatchling                -   Fish from emergence from egg to about
0.8 cm size.
Spawn                    -   Fertilized eggs and hatchlings.
Tank                     -   A pond or a small reservoir of variable
size, mostly for irrigation use.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:              US$6.0 Million Equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Purpose:             The project will assist in the development of a cluster
of six oxbow lakes, currently underexploited, as a pioneer
undertaking aimed at increasing carp production through
the introduction of new composite culture techniques;
carp seed production; and the provision of improved lake
management technologies. It will provide training and
technical assistance to facilitate the transfer of these
technologies to local fishermen. Specifically, the
project will assist in the financing of: supporting
lakeside hatchery facilities, including a Central Hatchery
complex, access roads, water supply, telephone and elec-
tricity; up-grade the professional competence of local
fishery personnel and fish farmers through in-service
training; and, provide a dependable source of good quality
carp fry and fingerlings for use by fish farmers in and
around the project area. It is estimated that the project
will increase total annual carp production from project
lakes to 950 MT, representing a seven fold increase
above current levels. On a per capita basis, the project
will increase the present average yield of 120 kg/ha/year
to about 900 kg/ha/year over the five year project devel-
opment period. The economic rate of return is estimated
to be about 24%. The major project risk concerns the
limited implementation capacity of the Department of
Fisheries (DOF). To minimize this risk, the project has
been kept small and organizational arrangements have been
kept simple. Furthermore, the project provides for the
establishment of a suitably staffed Project Implementation
Unit to support DOF lake and hatchery management personnel.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
% of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total
US 1,000--------
Land Acquisition          220.5         0      220.5        3
Lake Improvement          150.9       23.5     174.4        2
Hatchery Facilities       323.2      209.0     532.2        7
Dugout Ponds              204.3         0      204.3        3
Equipment and Vehicles   132.5       467.9     600.4        8
Infrastructure          1,254.9     607.2   1,862.1        25
Sub-total             2,286.5   1,307.5   3,593.8       48
Engineering and
Administrative (15%)   253.0       253.0    506.0         7
Technical Assistances      -0-       721.2    721.2        10
Training                   52.4       15.0     67.4         1
Incremental Operating
Costs                   396.6        0      396.6         5
Base Cost Estimates    2,988.3  2,296.7   5,285.0          71
Physical Contingency
(20%)                   507.9   312.1       820.0       11
Price Contingencies       915.1   438.1    1,353.2         18
Total Estimated
Project Cost          4,411.3  3,046.9   7,458.2        100
Financing Plan:                              GOB         IDA           Total
----------US$ Millions--------
1.5         6.0            7.5
Estimated Disbursements:                   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
US---------  S$ million----------
Annual                 0.5   1.3    2.0    1.5    0.7
Cumulative             0.5   1.8    3.8    5.3    6.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       About 24%.
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh - Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project,
March 12, 1979, Report No. 2295-BD.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$6.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to assist in the financing of an Oxbow Lakes
Fishery Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978; its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was circulated
on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade, and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss
of the West Pakistan market.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. International terms of
trade worsened considerably as prides of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply while jute, the predominant export, stagnated. In-
flation, falling real wages, labor unrest and political instability added
to the troubles.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with conditions of
greater political stability, have removed the crisis atmosphere affecting
economic policy making in the early years of independence when relief and
rehabilitation and then the achievement of economic stabilization were un-
avoidably the paramount concern of Bangladesh's policy makers. The present
time might therefore be characterized as a period of consolidation of the
country's economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970's. It is also
a period which offers the policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the



- 2 -
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a fund-
amental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
calls for Bangladesh to clear the deck for future action (partly through a
screening of the 1400 projects on the present project list to weed out un-
economic projects) and to study and consider the development strategy and
policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        On the political front, the most notable recent development has
been the parliamentary elections held in February 1979. For the past several
years Bangladesh has been governed under martial law and without a parliament.
In the recent elections, some 29 political parties and groups contested for
the 300 seats in the newly reconstituted national asembly. Roughly two-
thirds of the seats were won by the Nationalist Party headed by President
Zaur Rahman, who was previously confirmed as President in elections held
in June 1978. The new assembly will have substantial powers, including con-
trol over the country's finances. Martial law is to be lifted following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979. It remains to be seen, of
course, what specific impact these political developments will have upon
Bangladesh's economic policies and prospects. One area, for example, in
which the present government is anticipating a salutary effect is in the
investment climate; it is hoped that both domestic and foreign investors will
now be more inclined to assume a more active role than in the past. It is
also anticipated that the Government will soon be able both to take major
decisions on important policy issues and to implement programs that have
been pending the outcome of the recent elections.
7.        Recent estimates confirm that FY78 was a relatively good one for
the economy. Mostly as the result of a large grain crop, which recovered
from the substantial decline in the previous year, and a 10% increase in
industrial output, GDP grew by 8% in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in
FY77. For the third year in a row, Bangladesh was spared major droughts,
floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output reached a record level of 13.4 million
tons. The favorable results in agriculture are explained not only by good
weather but also by constructive Government actions resulting in sharply
increased supplies of fertilizer, other agricultural inputs and credit; and
larger and more efficient procurement effort, at prices attractive to farmers.
Results for wheat have been particularly encouraging. Jute output also in-
creased substantially in FY78, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme (IJCS) which, in only a few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000
acres and is expected to cover one million acres in the current year. How-
ever, raw jute prices remained high due to increased demand and the deple-
tion of inventories in prior years. These high raw jute prices and an
increase in jute workers salaries resulted in the jute mills once more
suffering large financial losses.
8.        A strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal avail-
ability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was



- 3 -
stimulated by increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, and by
an intensification of construction activity.
9.        It is too early for an accurate assessment of the growth prospects
for FY79. There are some signs of dynamism in agriculture, but the weather
has been unfavorable for the aman crop. Since investments in the public and
private sector -- particularly in manufacturing -- have shown some growth
momentum, it is possible that the overall GDP growth rate will still be ahead
of population growth and will amount to perhaps 4% in real terms.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a sub-
stantial upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.
The net result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same
time, development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid
disbursements, deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77.
Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a balanced
budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue and
large aid disbursements, there may still be an overall deficit. Reasons for
this include an apparent underestimation of the cost of the fertilizer sub-
sidy, the still heavy weight of the food subsidy, and the dampening effect of
wage increases on the revenue transfers by the public corporations. Expan-
sionary factors include the stepped-up grain procurement program, expanding
agricultural credit, and increasing financial needs of the private industrial
sector. It will be hard to contain the combined effect of these potentially
inflationary factors during the current year. Monetary and credit restraint,
and most importantly, increased efforts in domestic resource mobilization
will be required in order to create the conditions for balanced future growth.
11.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 million FY78. (It should be noted, however, that this was
less than FY75 and FY76 deficits which averaged $950 million.) The increased
export earnings in FY78 represented a continuation of a trend that began with
the 1975 devaluation. The main determinant of last year's improvement was a
16% increase in export prices, especially of traditional exports such as
jute and tea. Although raw jute exports d-ee-lined due to supply shortages,



- 4 -
jute goods exports were buoyant, mainly due to fiber shortages in inter-
national markets, some substitution of jute for synthetics, and government
incentive policies, including special export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute
product exports still account for about 70% of total Bangladeshi exports.
The growth of minor and non-traditional exports in FY78 was modest as com-
pared with the previous year.
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $100 million this year. An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led both to higher costs
for skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects.
(An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's central research
program.)
14.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over $1
billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding recent gains, especially in foodgrain output and
per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass
poverty; a unique environment prone to natural disasters; and dependence on
aid, not only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent
inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertil-
ity remains largely unchecked. A large part of the adult population is
illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has
largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the early 1970's, in a number
of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In FY78 per capita income
($91), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment ratio (13%
of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate, after some years of
depression to considerably lower levels. And the country remains critically
dependent upon foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public investment.
16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.3 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be in-
adequate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented.



- 5 -
The density of population on the land is already extremely high, and land-
lessness is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising
nearly 90% of Bangladesh's 85 million people) is landless or virtually land-
less. Population growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually.
The country's resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other
natural resoures, excepting some natural gas deposits, are meager. The
infrastructure remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and adminis-
trative skills has hindered the country's ability both to plan and to imple-
ment its policies and projects effectively.
17.       Another constraint on development is the segmented social order
characterizing rural Bangladesh. Agricultural change, which is critical to
overall development, is impeded by a rural power structure and social system
that often works to obstruct collective agricultural interests at the village
level. This system tends to allow development initiatives to be captured
by the better-off, as the national government has only limited control over
local behavior.  Consequently, government and donor attempts to impose out-
side organization and direction in the interest of the poorest rural classes
have often been frustrated.
18.       Confronted by the formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP), as
noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and
longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population
control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for
family planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to
provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement
policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to
improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute
manufacturing sector. Greater scope is being given to the private industrial
sector. And the Government has established a Project Implementation Bureau
as a means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The
beneficial results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in
a number of cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is,
of course, unlikely to change the course of development, since its period
is too short and most of the development budget during these two years (83%)
is preempted by ongoing projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the funda-
mental areas of employment creation and population control are unrealistic.
A further weakness is that the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic
projects have been weeded out nor what criteria are to be used to make
decisions about abandoning such projects during the remainder of the TYP
period.
19.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies in agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for



- 6 -
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
20.       Although work on both the Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the
Second Five Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage, present indications
are that the Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and
institutional changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentraliza-
tion of planning; (ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985;
(iii) employment creation and population control; (iv) drastic reductions
in subsidies and other means to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a
major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It remains to be seen, of course,
what specific new modalities will be devised for achieving these broad
objectives. But clearly these are all central objectives, and much of IDA's
own economic and sectoral work program is currently addressed to the analysis
of rural development (including the dynamics of demographic growth), food
production, trade policy and industrial development prospects, and domestic
resources mobilization. Considerable attention is also being given, par-
ticularly by IDA's resident mission, to finding ways and means to improve
aid coordination and project implementation.
21.       It appears to be generally appreciated, therefore, that in the
preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic short and
medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent resource
allocation pattern will need to focus on the following key areas: First,
and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to check
the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase effec-
tive delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. The rural
power and social structure compound the inherent difficulties in mounting
and administering large programs that will reach effectively the many mil-
lions of people that live in Bangladeshi villages. These difficulties must
be tackled with great resolve and singleness of purpose if they are to be
overcome. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and industrial devel-
opment are essential to the country's future economic vaibility. In this
connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion of labor-
intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish, leather,
paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion of new



industrial export products are essential elements of a successful export
strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobilization.
While the potential for increased public and private saving beyond the rate
of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin should be possible
through measures to increase taxation, improve tax administration and reduce
the very large subsidies to public corporations. While these elements of a
development strategy are not the only requirements to improve the economy,
they are among the most important and will themselves place heavy demands on
an understaffed and overburdened development administration. The fifth area,
therefore, is to strengthen the administration and to economize on the demands
placed upon it. Where administrative capacity is limited, administrative
controls in such matters as industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade
should be minimized to the extent feasible and consistent with social objec-
tives. There remains considerable scope also for administrative economy in
these and other areas and through greater decentralization of authority and
responsibility.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization , Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
roughly estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million in
FY78, should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 mil-
lion of food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid.
Since Bangladesh began the year with an aid pipeline amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be
necessary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up
the pipeline for FY80, required FY79 commitments are estimated at approxi-
mately $1,600 million. On the basis of donor pledges and indications given
at the January 1979 Aid Group meetings, and taking into account actual and
prospective commitments by other donors, it appears that this target will be
realized. It is important to stress that Bangladesh's capital requirements
must be met to a large extent by external assistance, at least for the time
being, if economic growth and execution of current development plans are not
to be slowed for lack of financial resources. At the same time, the Govern-
ment must strive to increase exports, to be prudent in the use of foreign
exchange, and to make increased efforts to increase domestic resource
mobilization. Finally, in the context of the above-noted limitations of
Bangladesh's development administration, it should be recognized that sub-
stantial improvements in administration are likely to take many years.
Hence, the Government, IDA and other external assistance agencies will have
to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to these administrative realities. And in all cases, par-
ticular priority should be given to those sectors and those types of finan-
cial and technical assistance where institutional improvements are most
needed.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made
to Bangladesh. In addition, as of January 31, 1979, 29 new credits, excluding
the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 24, have
been made, totalling US$837.7 million. Of these, US$500 million have been
for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member
of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980's, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external
debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about
24% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of January 31, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
ning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement
performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of
shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve
organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing
with agriculture and water resources. Furthermore, the Government has taken
actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and
increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards
gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence
of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the



- 9 -
organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the Planning
Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific
projects and under three Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD
and 872-BD).
26.       Of the 22 new project credits totalling US$337.7 million, 13 credits
totalling US$235.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allocated
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital in-
tensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far, the
fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that projects
geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future IDA lending.
However, in the short term, the rate of planned lending for agriculture will be
a function of progress in improving the currently limited absorptive capacity
of the project executing agencies. At the same time, greater efforts in insti-
tution building are being made through closer supervision and technical assist-
ance where necessary. Some progress has already been made in correcting prob-
lems in ongoing projects. Over the next year, proposed credits for rural works
and low-lift pumps are expected to be ready for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraph's 34-39 of the Presi-
dent's Report and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit
(P-2373-BD, dated November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will
continue to be required while efforts are made to correct basic structural
weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total
lending on a year-to-year basis is planned to decline gradually during the
next few years. The industrial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small
industry projects and a fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in
the process of identifying suitable investment opportunities.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and we expect to be ready to present a proposal for a second population
project for consideration within the next few months. Improved education
and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this
field has emphasized agricultural and technical training and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance
for vocational and management education as well.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunicatiions are now underway. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make significant contributions towards supporting Bangladesh develop-
ment efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,



- 10 -
IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to con-
template higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is the
case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pains-
taking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
General
32.       Bangladesh has a coastline of some 480 km on the Bay of Bengal.
As a deltaic country laced with rivers, estuaries, ponds and lakes embracing
approximately 2 million ha of open and impounded inland waters and, an addi-
tional 3 million ha of paddy fields which are flooded annually for periods of
4 to 6 months, the country has immense potential for the rapid development
of fish production.
33.       Despite this extensive resource base fish production in Bangladesh
has grown only slightly in th-eTast decade, increasing from about 800,000 tons
in 1965 to around 824,000 tons in 1975, with approximately 90% of total catch
being derived from inland areas. The growth in production from inland waters
has been equally marginal, increasing from around 727,000 tons in 1970 to
about 735,000 tons in 1975, representing an average annual growth rate of less
than 1%.



- 11 -
34.       The Department of Fisheries estimates that the country has approxi-
mately 155,000 ha of impounded inland waters which are readily available for
fish culture development. At present, yields from existing unfertilized ponds
are low (about 600 kg/ha/yr) while there are instances where yields of approxi-
mately 1,625 kg/ha/yr have been obtained from fertilized ponds. The scope for
significantly higher yields has also been demonstrated in India and elsewhere
in Asia through the use of multi-species carp culture (commonly referred to as
composite culture or polyculture) techniques which permit the feeding habits
of different species to be harmonized in order to optimally utilize available
food resources.
The Role of Fisheries in the Economy
35.       The fisheries sector is assuming an increasingly important role in
the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for approximately 5% of GDP and providing
a source of livelihood for some 800,000 people.
36.       Fish products rank forth in importance among exports (after jute,
leather and tea) and, in 1976/77 accounted for around US$17 million in foreign
exchange earnings, equivalent to approximately 4% of total export earnings.
Since independence, the value of fish exports has grown at an average rate of
26% per annum in real terms, with the traditional export of fresh and dried
fish to neighboring countries having been almost completely replaced by a rapid'
increase in export sales of frozen prawns, shrimp and froglegs to the United
States and Japan.
37.       In the domestic economy, fish are a principal source of food, sup-
plying some 80% of total animal protein intake. However, on a per capita
basis, fish consumption is extremely low, having declined from over 13 kg in
the mid-1960's to a present level of around 10-12 kg. This decline is partly
attributable to the failure of fish production to keep pace with the growth
in population and partly due to a number of other related factors, including
the country's low per capita income and the traditional and inefficient
methods predominantly used by local fishermen. For example, of the 80,000
fishing crafts used in 1975/76 only about 4,000 were motorized (4% in the case
of inland fishing and 13 percent of marine fishing craft).
Development Strategy
38.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the fish-
eries sector and attaches priority to programs and projects aimed at an accel-
erated development and improved efficiency of the inland fisheries sub-sector.
In its First Five Year Plan (1972/73-1977/78) the Government announced an
ambitious program to increase production and export and to improve the socio-
economic conditions of fishermen. The Government's main short-term objectives
as stated in its current Two Year Interim Plan (1978/79-1979/80) is to increase
inland fish production by at least 5% above the 1976/77 production level,
by increasing the productivity of lakes and impounded waters through improve-
ments in habitat and other appropriate biological management techniques.



- 12 -
Development Constraints
39.       The traditional methods of fishing which predominate in both inland
and coastal areas (see paragraph 37) are largely attributable to and have been
perpetuated by the level of poverty prevalent in most fishing communities.
The majority of fishermen are landless or near landless, and the level of
literacy in the fishing community remains low (10-15x), with less than 1%
having had secondary schooling or higher education. A further constraint in
enhancing the economic welfare of fishermen has been the lack of access to
institutional credit, notably in the rural areas. Despite the existence of
an extensive banking network, the credit needs of small farmers have been
largely unmet by institutional sources, resulting in most fishermen having to
borrow from fish merchants and local money lenders at usury rates, with an
obligation to sell their catch at below market prices. Many fishermen have
even had to borrow under similar terms in order to purchase boats and equipment.
40.       Furthermore, the customary system under which the right to fish in
inland waters is let on a short-term lease/auction basis is liable to abuse
and does not provide adequate incentive to assure an effective development
of the inland fisheries sub-sector. Customarily, with the exception of a few
privately-owned ponds and tanks, all inland waters are statutorily vested in
the State, with the exclusive rights to fish in demarcated areas being auc-
tioned/leased on a short-term basis (one to six years) to interested parties.
Usually, such auctions or leases are won by fish merchants or money lenders
who in turn negotiate with fishermen for the right to fish on payment of a
cash rent and/or share of their catch. The lease/auction system which was
primarily designed as a means of raising revenue has, in spite of various mod-
ifications (for example, by giving priorities to the Department of Fisheries
and also to fishermen's cooperatives), nevertheless, failed to provide suffi-
cient incentive to invest in resource management, the primary concern of
lessees being to maximize their catch from each area during the tenure of
their leases. In the absence of the security assured under a long-term
tenure, the present low level of resource management is likely to continue
and to advserely affect inland fish production. In addition, there have been
problems of overfishing due to population pressure and unregulated access
to many inland waters, as well as other problems associated with the indis-
criminate use of pesticides, all of which have resulted in significant
decreases in both wild stock and catch rates.
41.       A major organizational constraint has been the relatively large
number of Government agencies and institutions involved in the administration
and management of the fisheries sector in Bangladesh. These include: The
Department of Fisheries (DOF) under the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock;
the Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation (BFDC); Fisherman's Coopera-
tives Societies (BJMSS); and the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP).
Institutional credit for fisheries development is provided by three develop-
ment banks, nationalized commercial banks and, to a lesser extent, through
IRDP organized thana cooperatives (TCCA). On the whole, the activities of
these agencies have remained largely uncoordinated, with the result that



- 13 -
they have tended to concentrate their investments in quick-yielding areas
(e.g. development of ice plants and cold storage facilities), to the neglect
of directly productive activities specifically oriented towards improving
conditions among the neediest segments of the fishing community.
42.       Government is aware of the above constraints and is seeking to
implement a number of measures, aimed at mitigating existing deficiencies and
increasing the efficiency of the inland fisheries sub-sector in view of the
latter's significance to the overall growth of the economy. In an effort to
modernize and improve the efficiency of the inland fisheries sub-sector, GOB
has embarked on a wide-ranging aquacultural program, aimed initially at im-
proving the management and rehabilitation of derelict ponds. IRDP thana
officials have also been working closely with DOF personnel, in thanas with
fish ponds, to organize landless communities in surrounding villages into
fishery cooperatives so as to qualify for exclusive rights to manage and
harvest village fish ponds. In cases where such ponds are in derelict
condition, the cooperative is expected to provide medium-term credit for
rehabilitation. IRDP already operates in some 250 thanas and is contem-
plating an expansion of its activities to cover 300 thanas by 1979/80, that
is, out of a total of 413 thanas comprising the country. There is also
some evidence that other leading credit institutions are increasing lending
for fishery development, including the establishment of separate departments
within their organizations for this purpose.
43.       GOB has also shown willingness to consider longer term leases in
order to encourage increased investments and promote improved resource man-
agement practices of inland fish ponds. A Water Pollution Control Board and
a Technical Committee on the use of Pesticides have also been established in
an effort to control pollution of inland waters. In addition, increasing
emphasis is being placed on training at all levels as an important element in
inland fisheries development, including the construction of an aquaculture
complex at Mymensingh with assistance from both UNDP and DANIDA and also, an
expanded program for the vocational training of fishermen in modern fishing
methods, currently being planned.
Bank Group Role and Sector Lending Strategy
44.       The Bank Group, along with other multilateral and bilateral agencies,
has been supporting the Government's efforts to develop the fisheries sector
as a means of diversifying its economy. Assistance in support of inland
fisheries development was provided under both the Karnafuli Irrigation Proj-
ect (Credit 605-BD) and the Rural Development Project (Credit 631-BD), with
the aim of, inter alia, significantly increasing yields through improvements
in technical capabilities and through the rehabilitation of derelict ponds and
organization of Thana Fishery Cooperatives. In addition, a project for marine
shrimp development is currently under preparation. The proposed project is
consistent with the Government's stated objectives under its Two Year Interim
Plan which attaches priority to the development of existing underutilized
oxbow lakes, with a view to increasing fish production from inland waters by
at least 5% over the level achieved in 1976/77.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A report entitled "Bangladesh - Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project Staff
Appraisal Report: dated March 12, 1979, No. 2295-BD" is being distributed
separately. A credit and project summary is attached; as is a map of the
project area.
46.       Development priorities in the inland fisheries sub-sector were
examined by the Bank Group in June 1973 on the basis of a Land and Water
Resources Study (IBRD Report No. PS-13) completed in December 1972. The
project was subsequently identified and was prepared by the Bank Group's
Dacca Office staff assisted by the FAO Fishery Advisor in Bangladesh and
the Department of Fisheries staff.  An appraisal mission visited Bangladesh
in March/April 1978. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in
Washington in February 1979 and the Bangladesh delegation was led by
Mr. M. Lutfullahil Majid, Joint Secretary of the External Resources Division,
Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
47.       The proposed project would embrace a cluster of six oxbow lakes,
namely, Baluhar, Jaydia, Fetchpur, Kathgara, Gobindapur, and Marjat covering
a total of some 1,059 ha in Jessore District in the southwest quadrant of
Bangladesh. The number of project lakes has been deliberately limited 1/ in
order to avoid a dilution of technical and management capability during the
pioneering phase of inland fisheries development.
48.       The proposed project represents the first systematic attempt to
develop underutilized lakes in Bangladesh. At present, the status of Govern-
ment owned oxbow lakes leaves considerable scope for improvement, a pervasive
constraint being the relative scarcity of fish seed which is currently being
collected from rivers during the monsoon season. This practice has persisted
during the pioneering phase of inland fisheries development.
49.       The proposed project would provide for the introduction of:  new
composite culture techniques which have been proven to be well-suited for
oxbow lake development; an assured supply of high quality seed through the
introduction of induced breeding techniques and the provision of essential
hatchery facilities; essential water body control practices for preventing
predatory fish from entering or stocked fish from escaping impounded areas;
the management of acquatic weed and the maintenance of appropriate water
standards; fertilization and supplementary feeding of stocks as necessary,
to assure increased yields; and also, modern lake management technologies,
1/   There are 37 large sized oxbow lakes (covering about 4,000 ha) and 50
smaller lakes scattered throughout the district. Ten of the 87 lakes are
administered and stocked by DOF with the remainder available for leasing
from the Department of Land Revenue by interested private entrepreneurs
and cooperatives.



- 15 -
all of which would have significant implications for inland fisheries pro-
duction throughout the country. In addition, the proposed project would
assist in the development of vital infrastructure (all-weather access roads,
water supply, electricity and telephones) designed to improve the productivity
and living conditions of project fishermen and farmers in the areas adjacent
to the project lakes. Finally, the proposed project provides for the training
of DOF and other fishery personnel, including local fish farmers in order to
improve their professional competence.
50.       The project would be implemented over a five-year development period
(1980-1984) and would include:
(a) the construction of about 5.6 km of earth embankments in ~
low lying lake peripheries to prevent fish from escaping
during the flood season and, inlet/outlet culverts to assure
a continued supply of water for cultivated areas adjacent
to the lakes;
(b) the construction of lakeside fishery stations to provide
needed office and laboratory office space and living
quarters for lake management personnel;
(c) the construction of a central hatchery and lakeside hatchery
facilities and dug-out ponds in order to provide project
lakes with an adequate supply of fingerlings; and the Central
Hatchery complex, which would make fish seed available to
interested users, and would provide for an administrative
complex, a trainee hostel, workshop facilities and staff
and guest quarters;
(d) the construction of all-weather access roads, electricity
supply for hatchery and fishery stations and telephone
lines linking the various lake fishery stations with vital
market centers;
(e) the introduction of a comprehensive aquacultural program
designed to increase production and efficiency of the
selected lakes and hatchery sites; and
(f) training staff and local fishermen in modern aquacultural
techniques through in service courses, including the financ-
ing of short-term study tours to neighboring countries.
Project Execution
51.       DOF would assume overall responsibility for the execution of the
proposed project. DOF was established in 1943 and its original functions in-
clude: research, extension, training, administration of fisheries ordinances,
promotion of fisheries development, legislation, licensing and certification.
In December 1977, DOF was brought under the control of the newly-created
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock and its functions revised with emphasis
being placed on the development of fisheries and aquaculture.



- 16 -
52.       DOF currently employs some 1,400 officers and support staff, spread
over its Headquarters Office in Dacca, four divisional and 18 district offices.
Of the 418 thana Fishery Officers (TFO) positions, only 279 were filled in
mid-1977. There are also numerous vacancies among field assistants who work
under TFO's. A principal weakness of DOF is inadequate finance. A total of
Tk 212.95 million was earmarked for development projects to be administered by
DOF in the First Plan period (1972/73-1977/78). Total approved allocations
for DOF's 1976/77 budget amounted to only Tk 42.3 million and Tk 26.2 million
in respect of capital and recurrent expenditures, respectively. In addition,
DOF has been hampered by a lack of autonomy and an outdated management system.
GOB has fully recognized these deficiencies and is taking steps to correct
them by strenthening DOF's management staff and operating budget.
53        To the extent necessary, DOF headquarters personnel would be made
available to provide administrative and technical support for project activ-
ities. At the field level, divisional, district and thana Fisheries Officers
would liaise with Project staff and provide assistance with respect to carp
marketing and fry/fingerling sales to neighboring fish farmers. Headquarters
training staff would cooperate with Project staff in the design and imple-
mentation of in-service training programs to be conducted at the Central
Hatchery and lake sites.
54.       Responsibilities for the day-to-day management of the project and
project lakes would be vested in a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be
headed by a specially appointed Project Director and established within DOF.
Based at Baluhar (i.e. at the Central Hatchery), PIU would have a high degree
of financial and administrative autonomy and its functions would include: the
management of project funds and facilities; preparation and implementation of
annual work programs, including fish farming and breeding activities; adminis-
tration and supervision of project-financed procurement; monitoring of the
distribution of benefits among project participants, including catch sharing
and marketing arrangements to ensure that project fisherman receive an equit-
able share of project revenues; recruitment of consultants and administration
of training activities; and, preparation of project reports, including reports
from project consultants for evaluation by senior DOF management. The
detailed staffing arrangements for PIU were reviewed during negotiations and
the establishment of PIU and the selection of the Project Advisor/Agriculture
Specialist and the Engineer would be conditions of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (a) of the draft DCA).
55.       The PIU would have overall responsibility for implementing the main
investment features of the project, including civil works, seed production,
lake management and stocking operations. In addition, the PIU would market
fish production jointly with the fishermen and provide vehicles and staff to
assist in the marketing of carp catch.
56.       Civil works would include the construction of:  (a) embankments;
(b) inlet/outlet culverts; (c) lake fishery stations and hatchery facilities;
and, (d) a central hatchery complex and supporting infrastructure, including
vital access roads, electricity supply and telephone services. DOF, assisted



- 17 -
by consultants, as necessary, would be responsible for the design standards
and specifications of all civil works items. Prior to the completion of the
detailed designs for the construction of embankments at project lakes, GOB
would carry out a study to determine the 10-year flood levels at each lake and
submit the results of such study to IDA for its review and comments (Section
3.04 of the draft DCA).
57.       While preliminary indications suggest that with the possible excep-
tion of Kathgara, sedimentation in project lakes would not occupy more than
10% (on average) of storage capacity over the next 30 years, a further in-
depth study to investigate the actual level of sedimentation at each project
lake would be necessary. GOB would undertake detailed investigations of lake
sedimentation and storage capacity, the results of which would be forwarded
not later than September 30, 1980 to IDA for its review and comments (Section
3.03 of the draft DCA).
58.       In the initial phase of project implementation, all breeding activ-
ities would be undertaken at the Central Hatchery (to be located at the
Barluhar Lake site because of its central location, availability of land for
development and proximity to a main highway network), with fry for all six
project lakes being supplied from the Central Hatchery. Subsequently,
hatchery, nursery, and rearing facilities would be constructed at each lake
so that each of the project lakes would become a self-sufficient induced
breeding unit.
59.       Induced breeding efforts at the project hatcheries would focus
mainly on carp production because of their popular acceptance in Bangladesh
as a table fish and the fact that they are biologically well-suited for oxbow
lake culture.
60.       At full development in 1984, the Central Hatchery would be capable
of producing, mostly by induced breeding techniques, some 20 million carp
fingerlings/fry per annum. As lake management personnel gain experience and
lake hatchery production increases, fry from the Central Hatchery would be
available for sale to fish culturists outside the project area, where demand
for good quality fry is increasing.
61.       The proposed project would be innovative in that it would demon-
strate, through the introduction of new technologies developed in circumstances
similar to Bangladesh, the significant increases in production efficiency that
could result from the implementation of a comprehensive aquaculture program.
A six-species combination of high-yielding carp would be used in order to
achieve optimal production from project lakes.
62.       Species to be stocked at project lakes would include a combination
of: Indian major carps i.e. catla, rohu and mrigal (the first two species
feed on surface and column food, while the third is a bottom dweller and
grazes on detritus); European common carp (because it is an omnivore that
rakes up bottom mud and thereby promotes the circulation of nutrients from the
soil to the water); and Chinese carps, primarily silver carp and grass carp.



- 18 -
The introduction of Chinese carps is imperative as the Indian major carps,
already stocked in the lakes, do not utilize the full range of fish food and
weeds. The greenish appearance of lake waters (Phytoplankton) is an indica-
tion that existing nutrients are not being fully utilized. The nutrients
would be grazed down by the introduction of silver carp, while submerged
weeds (Hydrilla) which are present in enormous quantities in the project
lakes would be controlled by the stocking of grass carp.
63.       Appropriate biological control measures would be taken in order to
reduce the amount of highly predatory species which are presently established
in the lakes.  Live bait angling and the use of seine netting would be en-
couraged through the provision of incentives such as the issuance of free
licenses or rewards for certain species. The control of snails and other
moluscs would be achieved through the stocking of black carp or catfish, as
necessary.
64.       An initial stocking rate of 8,000 carp fingerlings/ha would be
employed. However, the stocking density and ratio of the co-stocked species
would vary from year to year, depending on physio-chemical conditions, plank-
ton density and extent of aquatic weed infestation.
65.       In the first and second years of project implementation, Indian major
carp fry/fingerlings would be purchased locally, with hatchery-bred supplies
becoming available by Year 3. It is expected that Chinese and European common
carp fingerlings would likewise be available for stocking by Year 3 of the
project. Since Chinese carp are not at present available in Bangladesh, GOB
would by July 31, 1981 import approximately 10,000 grass carp fry and 10,000
silver carp fry for temporary stocking at Jessore District seed farm, pending
the availability of lakeside rearing ponds (Section 3.11 of the draft DCA).
66.       Fertilization of project lakes would commence after weed grazing has
taken place. Phosphatic fertilizers would be applied on a monthly basis, the
actual dosage being determined on the basis of physio-chemical conditions,
nutrient levels and the growth rate of the co-stocked carp species.
67.       Harvesting would be by conventional methods (use of gill or seine
nets) and would be spread over about 240 days a year, with a slack period
during the monsoon months.
Lake Tenure
68.       In accordance with existing practices, the use of the proposed proj-
ect lakes by DOF is on the basis of annual leases from the Ministry of Land
Administration and Land Reform, with title being vested in the latter. As
discussed earlier (see paragraph 40 above), the short-term nature of the
existing annual lease/auction arrangements breeds uncertainty and has not
provided an incentive for investments in either rehabilitation or improvement.
To eliminate this deficiency DOF would be granted long-term leases for all
project lakes and lake depot sites which shall continue throughout the esti-
mated economic life of investments to be made under the project (Section 3.05
of the draft DCA).



- 19 -
Annual Work Programs
69.       Prior to each construction season, DOF would prepare annual programs
detailing activities and works to be undertaken during the forthcoming year.
Such programs would include appropriate maps, charts, and drawings, staffing
and material requirements as well as cost estimates. The Project Director
would be responsible for collating and consolidating these programs for sub-
mission to IDA. By September 30, of each year, IDA would receive for review
and comments work programs for the ensuing construction year (Section 3.09 of
the draft DCA).
Maintenance of Project Facilities and Equipment
70.       The economic and financial viability of the proposed project would
be directly linked to the implementation of a satisfactory maintenance program.
DOF would be responsible for the O&M of all project work, except access roads.
Maintenance of the lake and hatchery access roads would be undertaken by the
Jessore Zilla Board (the District Council). Arrangements for the preparation
of an acceptable maintenance program were discussed and project facilities
would be maintained in accordance with sound engineering and management
practices (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA).
Technical Assistance
71.       The proposed project would provide for a total of 130 man-months of
consultants' services, at an average cost of US$5,500 (Tk 83,000 equivalent)
per month to assist in the implementation of the project's fishery related
technical components, including fish farming and marketing, lake and hatchery
management, and induced breeding operations.
72.       Short-term consultants would also be employed, as necessary, for
assistance in engineering design work and in establishing appropriate proce-
dures, and organizational arrangements for proper operation and maintenance
of the project facilities. An allocation of 24 months for short-term consul-
tants, at an average cost of US$5,000 (Tk 75,000) per month is included in the
project costs. DOF would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, including,
inter alia, a Project Advisor/Aquaculture Specialist and an Engineer to be in
post not later than December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA).
Training
73.       The proposed project would provide facilities for training at the
Central Hatchery in lake management, induced breeding techniques, composite
fish culture, aquatic weed control, nursery rearing and broodstock management.
PIU would be assisted by consultants in its training efforts which would
provide for the training of both DOF staff and local fish farmers. In addi-
tion, short-term study tours would be organized for a few selected staff



- 20 -
members to neighboring countries such as India or Thailand where short-term
programs (3 to 6 months) have been successfully developed to impart required
skills, using a combination of classroom and on-the-job training approach.
The program for study tours and the qualifications of proposed candidates
would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.07 of the draft DCA).
Project Costs
74.       Project costs (based on May 1978 prices), including taxes and duties
(US$0.6 million equivalent) are estimated at US$7.5 million (Tk 111.9 million
equivalent), of which US$3.0 million or 37% would be foreign exchange. Phy-
sical contingencies have been estimated at 20% since detailed design work is
yet to be completed. Annual expected price increase rates used in estimating
total costs of imported items were 7.5% in 1979 and 8% in 1980-1985. For
domestically produced items, a 10% price increase rate was used. Costs of
civil works, including embankments, buildings, dug-out ponds and infrastructure
are based on recent costs in Bangladesh for similar works. The cost estimates
for equipment and vehicles are based on unit prices in recent contract awards
and on international prices.
Project Financing
75.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million (covering about 90% of
total project cost, excluding taxes and duties) would finance 100% of foreign
exchange costs and about 67% of local costs. GOB would finance the balance
of total project cost, US$1.5 million (Tk 22.5 million equivalent), including
all taxes and duties. To ensure the provision of project funds and the hiring
of project staff a condition of credit effectiveness would be approval of the
Project Proforma 1/ by the Executive Committee of the National Executive
Council (Section 5.01(b) of the draft DCA).
Procurement
76.       Overall responsibility for procurement would be vested in DOF.
Project civil works include embankments, hatchery facilities, dug-out ponds,
offices, living quarters, and supporting infrastructure such as access roads,
water supply, electrification and telephone connections. Civil works con-
tracts (US$2.7 million) would be awarded for the six selected lake sites with
construction spread out over three years. Such contracts would not be suit-
able for international competitive bidding and would be let through local
competitive bidding, using established GOB procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Imported construction materials (US$0.8 million), such as cement and steel
bars, would be provided by the selected contractors, as individual require-
ments would be too small to justify separate tenders under the project.
77.       Equipment, vehicles and spare parts (US$0.7 million) would be pro-
cured through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference limited
1/   An internal Government document, the approval of which is a prerequisite
for release of funds and authorization to hire staff.



- 21 -
to 15% of cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$20,000 for each contract, which are either
urgently needed or are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal
Government procedures, on the basis of quotations received from three or more
suppliers.
78.       Documents for all contracts, whether for civil works, materials,
equipment or vehicles estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be sent to
IDA for review before bids were invited and later before award. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with
normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory. A summary of the bid
evaluation would be sent to IDA with all contracts for which disbursement is
sought.
Disbursements
79.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit of US$6.0 million would
be spread over a five year period (1980-84) and would cover:
(a)  80% of civil works expenditures totalling US$2.7 million;
(b)  100% of expenditures (ex-factory) for locally procured
construction materials; equipment, vehicles and spare parts
totalling US$0.3 million;
(c)  100% of cif expenditures for directly imported construction
materials, equipment, vehicles and spare parts totalling
US$1.8 million;
(d)  100% of total expenditures for consultants' services and
overseas training totalling US$0.8 millions; and
(e)  80% of administrative expenditures of the Project Imple-
mentation Unit totalling US$0.4 million.
80.       Disbursements for expenditures (a) through (d) above would be on the
basis of full documentation.  In the case of expenditures incurred by the PIU,
item (e) above, disbursements would be against certificates of expenditure
submitted by DOF. It is estimated that the credit would be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1985.
Accounts and Audits
81.       Section 4.01 of the draft DCA provides that:
(a) separate accounts would be kept for the project by DOF;
(b)  the above accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA; and



- 22 -
(c) GOB would furnish IDA with copies of the above audit
reports annually and within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.
Recovery of Costs
82.       The recovery of project costs would be met through existing catch
sharing arrangements whereby 60% of carp sales is paid to the Treasury as
revenue, with the remaining 40% being retained by project fishermen. A com-
parison of discounted incremental benefits with discounted project cost
estimates supports the existing arrangement as a suitable basis for full
cost recovery while providing substantial incentives for fishermen partici-
pation. Assuming a full development yield of 900 kg/ha and a 10% discount
rate the cost recovery index is one. If a greater share of carp sales revenue
is channeled to participating lake fishermen, the estimated cost recovery
index becomes less than one, indicating that the project costs are not fully
recovered. The catch sharing arrangement will be kept under review during
the project period (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA). The Association would be
informed of any proposed changes to the existing revenue sharing arrangements
by GOB.
Marketing
83.       The market prospects for carp, a widely preferred table fish
throughout Bangladesh and the project's major product, are excellent. Jessore
District is currently a fish deficit area, as are parts of Kushtia and Rajshahi
to the north and Khulna to the south. At full development in 1984, annual
incremental fish production from the project would represent less than 1% of
projected total Bangladesh fish production and would therefore present no
serious marketing problems.
84.       In an effort to rationalize carp marketing practices and in view of
the preference for fresh fish in the project area and its environs, the project
would provide for a complex of lake access roads, as well as the provision of
trucks fitted with insulated ice boxes, to facilitate the timely shipment of
freshly caught carp to neighboring markets. The gathering and dissemination
of marketing intelligence would be improved through the installation of tele-
phone facilities linking the Central Hatchery with surrounding market centers.
Technical assistance, including a marketing specialist to be stationed at the
Central Hatchery, would be provided to assist with marketing operations and
related functions, such as helping to administer the catch sharing arrange-
ments between DOF and lake fishermen.
Prices
85.       Prices used for the project's financial analysis are based on aver-
age wholesale market prices for Jessore and Khulna Districts in May, 1978.
Given the continued unmet demand for carp and carp seed in and around the



- 23 -
project area, and expected improvements in the quality of both products,
the use of these prices on a constant basis for project analysis is reason-
able. Prices used average Tk 12,000 (US$800) per MT for carp and Tk 31,200
(US$1,113) per million fry. Improved access and the provision of vehicles
are expected to end the dependence of lake fishermen on traders and middlemen
who have purchased carp at depressed ex-lake prices ranging from Tk 4,500 to
Tk 8,500 (US$300 to US$565) per MT.
Environmental Impact
86.       Implementation of the project would have a positive effect on the
environment. Among the selected lake sites, systematic management efforts
would reduce the breeding of mosquitoes and snails, which are hosts for
transmitting tropical diseases such as malaria, schistosomiasis and filariasis.
Proposed water control works such as embankments and screened inlet/outlet
gates would provide fishermen as well as neighboring rice farmers with the
means to better manage seasonal flood waters. It is also expected that the
proposed infrastructure investments, particularly all weather access roads
and electrification, would have a beneficial impact on che quality of life
in the rural villages surrounding the project area.
Monitoring and Evaluation
87.       Monitoring of project progress would be through quarterly and annual
progress reports prepared by DOF staff. The reports would include all rele-
vant data on physical and financial progress of the project together with
reasons for deviations, if any, from the targets set under annual work pro-
grams (paragraph 69). Following review and consolidation by the Project
Director, quarterly and annual reports would be promptly sent to IDA.
88.       The main objectives of the evaluation studies would be to estimate
the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the
socio-economic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. The data for
evaluation would be obtained through selected in-depth interviews as well as
through canvassing representative samples of project beneficiaries. A bench-
mark survey would be conducted prior to project inception to establish the
pre-project situation. Two follow-up surveys would be conducted after comple-
tion of the project works -- the first after one year and the second after
four years. The surveys would include information on hatchery and rearing
operations, stocking rates and yields, catch sharing and marketing arrange-
ments, and employment and income distribution for the various classes of
project beneficiaries. The evaluation studies and surveys would be under-
taken by well qu'alified consulting firms or research institutions selected
in consultation with IDA. Before January 1, 1980, DOF would prepare and
submit to IDA for concurrence, a detailed proposal for evaluation of the
project impact. The progress reports and the data from evaluation studies
and surveys would form, in part, the basis for preparation of the Project
Completion Report by DOF (Section 4.03 of the draft DCA).



- 24 -
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
89.       The economic rate of return from investment in the proposed project
is estimated at about 24%.
90.       The project's principal direct beneficiaries would be the 600
fishermen families currently residing in the vicinity of project lakes. At
full development in 1984, annual production from the six project lakes would
amount to 953 MT of carp (of which 815 MT would be incremental production)
valued at US$0.76 million. Additional revenue amounting to US$0.05 million
per annum would be realized by the sale of fry from the Central Hatchery
to fish farmers in surrounding areas. It is envisaged that the number of
licensed fishing families would increase substantially, as project implement-
ation proceeds, and could well reach 900 by the time of full development in
1984. Average family income from carp production is expected to increase
from its present low level of Tk 750 to around Tk 7,625 (US$508) per annum.
Additional income would also be realized through the sale of miscellaneous
fish, the entire proceeds of which would accrue to project fishermen as the
catch sharing arrangements (discussed in paragraph 82 above) would apply
only to carp production. Outside the project area, the principal direct
beneficiaries would be the large number of fish farmers who would benefit from
an assured supply of high quality carp fry produced by the Central Hatchery.
Some of the more significant but non-quantifiable secondary benefits would
include the improvement in the quality of life and living standards of the
inhabitants of the project area which would result from the improvement of
access roads and the provision of rural electrification.
Risks
91.       The major project risk would be the organizational weaknesses of
DOF and its capacity to implement the project. To minimize this risk, the
organizational arrangements for the project have been kept simple and in-
corporate a fully staffed Project Implementation Unit to provide necessary
support for DOF lake and hatchery management personnel. Although the project
provides for the introduction of new fish production techniques, the princi-
ples of composite carp culture and breeding are well established and the
provision of appropriate training and technical assistance should keep risks
within acceptable limits. It is expected that the provision of a Central
Hatchery and also satellite (lake) hatcheries will further reduce risks
usually associated with high quality carp seed production. Once project
facilities are completed, the adequacy of O&M works will be critical to the
continued successful functioning of the project. Consequently, DOF is prep-
aring a detailed program for O&M of the project facilities which would be
reviewed by IDA for its adequacy. Compliance with such a program could
minimize problems related to inadequate maintenance. A number of sensitivity
tests confirm that the proposed project should remain economically viable
even if there were to be substantial delays in implementation or reduction
in project longevity due to inadequate maintenance.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
92.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
93.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions to the effectiveness of the credit include
(a) the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (paragraph 54); and
(b) approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 75).
94.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
95.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 15, 1979



- 26 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ANGLADES8 R!
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. K.L)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     101.1                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE A        REGION ft   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   40.0         60.0      90.0            167.4      182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..          ..       28.0            65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         53.9        70.8      82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8          6.4        9.2             12.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       374.0       492.0      574.0            85.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAID    566.0        730.0      818.0           322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3        46.4       46.2             44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        51.0       51.1            52.9        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         2.6        2.6              2.9        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         2.8        2.1 /f           2.2        2.4          2.7
URBAN                                *-         6.2        7.4             4.2         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER T8OUSAND)      49.8        50.3       49.5             45.1       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAID)      27.2        22.9       28.1             17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.1        ..              3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TBOUSANDS)        ..       345.6      655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       4.7             13.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             106.2       100.0       93.7            95.6        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0 A       89.0      93.0            91.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           42.6           ..      58.5            49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.2 /i        ..       8.0             12.6       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7         43.3       45.0             43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..     140.0             99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCIT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        45.0       56.0            30.0        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                *-        13.0       22.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                ..        47.0       61.0            17.2        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCINT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         6.0        5.0             15.7       16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ...                  40.0            66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                                        -            62.5         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10000.0 /h   7600.oLh 1)000.0           8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   110000.0 7;T  72030.0/h 56070.0           8479.3      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           11000.0 /   8120.0 /i 5200.0           1624.5      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..     -        ..       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..         4.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                      ..          ..           ..                 1.8         2.3
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                                ..          ..        3.0
RURAL                                      ..          ..           ..                 8.7        10.3



- 27-                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                              /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE])      _
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         61.0       73.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                26.0         42.0      51.D             38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY;   TOTAL                   8.0        19.0       25.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEKALE                 1.0          8.0      11.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0            1.0        ..              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..        49.0       50.0             38.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                             ..        26.0       24.0             23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6           ..      23.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.4        0.4 Li           2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PEI TOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         6.0         *-     -       14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..               ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..               ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0       24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2        16.5       17.0             21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0        86.0       78.0             62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3         3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0        34.6       34.4             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  58.7        55.8       55.3             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                11.4        11.8       12.1             15.6        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIO                1.3          1.4       1.4              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k       16.7 1       ..             18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5          42.3         ..             42.8       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 Lk        7.9 /1                      7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k       19.6 L       ..             19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      110.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       90.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       29.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       61.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       70.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. CDverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Incom  ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita.
1976); /f The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.82 per annum; /1 Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country; /i Govt. establishments only; /I 1972; /k 1963-64; /1 1966-67.
September, 1978



- 28 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     P-  3
Solo:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the =ost
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depend. on avilability of data and is not unifors.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil ERportere and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme vsluea.
LAND AREA (thousand sq  kt.)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban., and rural - Population (total,
-htol - Trtl. surface aren  -oeprieing lend area and inland waters.                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Aaricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and spocialzeed hoopital and re-
or per-anently far crops, pastures., mrket and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments pernanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
CNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current mrket prices.                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical us
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              aistant, nuree, midwife., etc.) which offer in-patient accoommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admiesions per hospital bed - Total number of adnissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
therm.al electricity) in kilogram  of coal equivalent per capita.                 HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household connists of a group of individuala who share living quarters
Total populution, mid-pear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger  yay or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimtes; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purpoaea.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratic of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitiona of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data among rountries.                                                               ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Pppulation density                                                                       dwllings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude nos-permanent structures and
Per  sq  kz  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
of totalur1                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Po  sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as perucntage
only                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwllings  respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 ye-rs), and retired (65 yeara and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adlusted enrollmsent ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urben - Compound annual                  Primry school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; norm lly includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
oid-your population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent eatimate.                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female  - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primry instruntion; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for meat recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in hoc normal reproductive period if she experiences preaent  ge-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; usalIly five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clude technical, induserial, or other programs which operate independently
Pa-ily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secsndary institutions.
uccoptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - priary. asd secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning prograa.                                                                      primry and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the  -cre-
Fanily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       aponding levels.
carried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devicn tro all married .ouen in same age group.                                           percentage of total adult population aged 1S years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indes number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger corn c.oprioc motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food cosodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and =ilitary
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
enports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wau in
quactities used in food processing, and loases in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since oost countries
qaire..nto were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
al activity and health considering environmental teaperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weightu, age and aem distributions of population, and alleing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cont for waste ar household level.                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grans per day) - Protein contest of per                 Newsap,er circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average ciroula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined an a periodical publi-
above.  Requirenent  for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
o rinimu- allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four ties.a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and sobile
23 grass of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
for cayita protein supply iron animal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Econoically active persons, inclodifg armed
Child (age. 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stndents, etc   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various countries are not conpsrable.
Fema le (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farning, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lifo expectancy at birth (years) - Average nuamber of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
renaming ot birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Lahor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thouasnd) - Annual deatha of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhta.                                              'eale labor force as percentagen of their respectie populations.
Acce-c tc safe water (percent of popslation) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are mLOo  adjusted participotion rates reflecting age--c
Numb-er  f People (total, brhn, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population, and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface vaters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under IS and 65 and over cc
uncontaminated water such as that fros protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters fran u house my be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that h.u.e.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorent 40 percent
inply that the housewife or  embeers of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a dinproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acces  to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. and                Estimated absolute poverrty Incoe  level (USS per capita) -            urban and rural -
rural - Numbar of people (total, urban, and rural) served by e-cretr                      Absolute poverty income level is that incomo level below which a sinimal
disposal an percentagen of their respective populations.  EScreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disponal may inclode the collertion and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treutnert, of human escreta and wuate-water by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty imcose level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
cr the one of pit privies and similar installations                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of th  country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimted population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whiohever is greater.
-sistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Ec.o..ic Analysis cnd Projections Department



- 29 -                                                                 ANNEX I
E)CONOMIC DESIENEN DATA
(Amounts in millon    f U.S. dollara)
Actual                         1aise               960-   1965-    1973-             AV,
AV.  97-912/3 9775                  1976/7?         -1977T7-8           1.965    1970      1978           196-69 1974/75 1y~77/78
NATTJNAL. ACCOUNTS                                                                                         
In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rate                av,erage Annual Growth Bates          As Percent of PrY
Croso Domestic Product              6,01      583        ,14        725733                               4.7      33         6198.5   101.8   101.1
,soi.s from Terms of Trade C)         89          -      -117        -148                -88                                                1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Gros  DoTimestic IMncome            6101    5,8-33    6,397         7,17                7,7455.                    25        58100                  100      100
?apcrt. (imc). NSF)                   879       747       703         506                 791           20.6      6.8        0.7            14.4    11.0    10.2
Exports   "(import capacity)    598             369       197          24L3               315            12.3   -14.6       -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                          281       378       5616                           724Y                                               -4.6    -7_        6.1
Consumption Expenditures            5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764               7,521            5.7       3.6       5.2            92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment   "  (ind. stocks)    714            394       499         660                 700           13.3       8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                      433        16        -6         343                 224            4.3    10.0        72.0             6.8    -0.1       2.9
National Savings                      416        32        10          378                279             8.7    20.5       56.3             7.1      0.2      3,6
MEBCHIANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Carrent Prices                                                               As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                        ..       100       135         227                318               ,        ..     22.9              ..      16.8    23.5
Intermediate goods (qw3.fuels)    ..          176       386         270                459                       ..      21.9              ..     30.4    3 4. 1
Thesand related materials
of which:  Petroleu                .         23       155         141                166               .        .      485.                     100        2.
Cons   t ion goods                   .        428       726         227                406                               48.5,             ...   ---.   42.8  301
Tctal~~ii~ii7~rts  Coif)  547  727  1,402      865        ~~    1,349                               12.2                    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primaryr products ~awl. fuels)       .        145       119         220                203               .        ..      7.0              ..     40.9    40.8
1"suels and related materials
of which: Petroleum
Manufactured goods                   ..       195       239         240                294               .        ..       8.5             ..     59.1    59.2
Total Merch. Exports (fob)         49FI    '730         358         4-60               497                                7.9                    1005.0o   100.0
Tourism snd Border' Trace
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1972-73    100
Export Price Inidex                 61       100       133          118                137              .        ..       6.5
import Price Index                  52       100       215          189                180              .        ..      12.5
Term  of Trade Index               118       100         62          62                 76              .        ..      -5.6
Exports Volume Index               148       100        80          115                107              .        ..       1.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Arrual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Rates                 AvtL~a_n nual Grow~th Rates~   A:. Percent of Total_
Agriculture                      3,542    3,403    3,712         4,020               4,318              .        ..       4.8             59        59       57
Industry snd Mining                420       412       466          582                642              .        ..       9.2              7         7        8
Service                          2,050     1,848    2 146        2,442               2.645              .         .       743                        4       3
Total                            6,012    5,663    6,324         7,044               7,605                                6.1            100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                               As Percent of GDP
(Central Ou~ve.rsaict)
Current Receipts                   317       280       469          563                665              .        ..      34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures               365       364       419         464                 553              .        ..      16.8            8.1       6.4      7.1
Busdgetary Savings                 -48       -84        50           99                112                                             --0.8      0-.8      1.4
Other Public Sector                 .          .         .            ..                                 .       .
Public Sector Investment           421       239       248         516                 514              .        ..      10.3            7.0       3.8      6.6
us $ nillion Li
CUENIT EXPENDTTURE DETAILS'                               Actual                  Estimated       DETAIL 0ON                            At Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.,'              1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 L976/77         1977/78      PUBLIC SECTOF                        Two-year plan   % of Total
Education                                   .         5.5    14.5    1.             130        INVETSTENT PROG,RAM                       (1978/79 - 1979/80)
Other Social Services                       ..        4.5      3.6      4.2          4.9       So,cial Sectors                              287         13.2
Agriculture  and                                                                               Agriculture                                  600         27.6
Other Economic Services                   ..        5.0    12.5       6.6          7.0        Gndustry and Mining                          380        17.5
Administration and Defense                  ..       70.4    57.1    61.5           61.2       Power                                        314         14.4
Other                                       .         4.6    12.3 1.3               13.9       Transport and communication                  387         17.8
Total Current Expenditures                          100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0        Other                                        206          9.5
________________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures                         2,174        100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   3960-      1965-        1973-               FINANCING
(Cal-cul-ated from 3-year averaged data)              1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR..                                                     7          5- 089                 P'sslie Sector Savings                    557        75.6
Import Elasticity                                       ..       1.29         1.11                   Program aid counterpart                  838         39.6
Marginal DDmestic Savings Hate                          ..       0.22        0.05                    Foreigo Project Aid                      605         27.8
Marginal National Savings Sate                          ..       0.35         0.05                  Other (incl. doss  borrowing)              174         8.0
Total Financing                       2,174        100.0
LABOR5 FORCE AND5                                 Total L,abor Force                                   Value Added PerWke  21 72.7    Prices     a.Rts
OUnTPUT PER WORKER                  It Millions          %of Total            19 61 -73           In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aver:ge           190-7
19 60/61    1972/7_3 19 60/61   19 72/73  Growth Rate           19 69/70   19 72/ 73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1         20.5      85        78          2.0                 ..         166          ..76
Industry                             1.0          1.8       5         7          5.0                ..          229          ..105
Service                              1.8          3.9      10        15          6.7                -.          484          ..222
Total                               19.79        26.2    10-0       100          2.8                248         217        100          100         .4-.9
not applicable          -nil or negli-gible
not available         --less than half the sm,allest -nit shown
Note: Figures are on fiscal year basis (JulY I-JUne BO).Data prier t, 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I Plan targets.



-30-
IaImR OF PAlED?; 373KA AB8INAMJJ    A             OD    t
(asset   in  Silse of V.S. doar. at cunt price)
lctrasl. 'ins4                               animid d        Ave  rse tsl C rntS eAt.
3aIIZn      1977/78 1979/75                                         8/flfl7179           1974 - 1978
SUDMARY SALESCE OF PlYMETS
Seports (DCcl. NF5)                        513          369          358         3529           s              6,4                      13.7
flportc (inel. YFS5)                      -639         -747       -1,4D2         -957        -1,427        -1,-779                      9.8
8i9S(iree Daliic4  TZ-M)         -          12 4  -378             1             -428       i                                            7T 7.4
Otterest (net)              I
Direct Ocseftterit LacDe.   I
Workers' Remittacee         i               ..           45             7          66            83             93
Private Direct D-ovsNtot
Officatl Daitca  Gvrants                                482          397          229          356             400                      13.6
Public MULT I..n
ffiohuronsletten                          ..           25          527          273           411            695                      5.2
-iepayients                                . .          -           -25          -16           .58            -54                        -
Not Diobur-ereeto                           *.           7D 4.
Other 94LT Loans
Disbntaenettt.                                                                   .              .
-Rep aT-nt                                _
Net Diisbnrseners                           .
Capital Tr, nsctines e.e.i.                 ..         -205          334          -44            16            _37
Chen9eRin Net Reserves. (--  nras)          .           -20          -196         -80            24             25                                Act-l lend  eriod                   Zet3fmtd
Gross Rescr    (end period)                 ..          107          263          293           269            244                          557zV/3    /75   175776  1976177    7/9
117r1 AND DEWT 50V1RE           !    M12   L477         756i                97/7
POublic Debt Out. & Disbursed      228      1,366     1,812      2,065      2,556
ORANTi AN    A.CMtPS
orrici%l Jrants &. Grsnt-like514                                      368          338          452          Itterest on poblic Debt             -        10         21        25          27
RePayemnto on Public Debt                   25         78         17         51
mTlRc Mhll? Irtot                                                                                            Total Public Debt Service           -        35        99         42          78
rDA                                                    68          150           50           211          Total Debt Service (net)
Other Naltilat-l                            .          I1            87          84            74
GTveronc t.                               ..          204          678          200           376       blsdeo on F- oro FhreAr(7 (4)
suppliers                                  .           5            17            2            ll
F leenrial Institutifuns                  . .           -             -           5            03         PUb7ie Debt Service                 .      9.8        22.4        7.9        13.7
condo                                     ..                          - .                       - i       Total Debt Service                 *.
Public Laes n.e.i. M. _ T _                                                                               TOSODirect m-et. De.               ...
Total public 2442.0 Loans                   ..          358          932          341          35
Average Tersa of Public Debt
Actual Debt Ostaonding on J-co  30, 1978                         ato. ae 4 Prior Year D             .-      2.0         1.5        1.4        1.3
.lbrld 3snk                                                                 percert                         ASnrt. *s % Pr0or Year DO&D          -      5.0         5.7       0.9         8.5
17A                                                  554                      21.7                        I35D Debt Out. & Disbursed
Oth:  iluilaterel                                     64                        2.5                          "  us % Pbhlic Debt  &              -      4.o         3.0       2.7         2.2
'ocverr Dents                                      1,746                      68.4                             %a  A Public Debt Service        -         -         1.6       7.5         4.4
Thin:? - ccc                            11~           ~          ~~~~~~~       ~~1 4.344
,ionciol  7o-t%ttio-                                 126                        1.0                       IDA Debt Out. & liobureed
ionbc                                                  _                          _                            en a  Public Debt O&D          7.1      18.7       21.0       22.7        21.7
01:11: Deity r.e.i                                      -                         -                         " aD  , Public Debt Service          -      2.3         2.0       7.5         4.9
botl Publ:c N&LT0 Debt                             2,556                      100.0
Other M&LT Deete
Shert-tn-  Dbt (disb. e-ly)
. net epplirsble                                                     e  staff eetiDst-
cot ovailbTall                                                    - oil or negligible
tot cail,Dale separately                                         *-  lees than half the
but iecluded in total                                                esallest -eit shso1
Nevbsr 1978



- 31 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of January 31, 1979
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                            US$ Million
Number     Year                  Purpose                       Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                   329.1        -
339         1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)              25.0       3.0
340         1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)              13.0       1.3
341         1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                         14.0       2.0
343         1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)            7.3       0.3
367         1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                7.0       0.2
368         1973     Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
(replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                    13.2       0.1
407         1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                    21.0       5.2
408         1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                 25.0       7.1
409         1973     Technical Assistance                         4.0       0.7
410         1973     Cereal Seeds                                 7.5       5.3
424         1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7          1.2
487         1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0     13.5
527         1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                        33.0      12.9



- 32 -
ANNEX II
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
533         1975     Population                               15.0      12.0
542        1975      Barisal Irrigation                       27.0      23.8
605         1976     Karnafuli Irrigation                     22.0      15.0
621         1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0      10.9
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                    7.5      6.3
631         1976     Rural Development                        16.0      14.6
632        1976      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0      20.0
676         1977     Imports Program V                        75.0       5.6
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                        16.0      16.0
725        1977      Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0      20.1
729        1977      Extension and Research                   10.0      10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                 5.0       4.9
752        1977      Imports Program VI                       75.0      37.7
765        1978      Jute                                     21.0      19.6
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                     25.0      25.0
825         1978     Small Scale Industry II                   7.0       7.0
828         1978     Agricultural Research                     6.0       6.0
864        1978      Drainage and Flood Control               19.0      19.0 /a
866         1978     Imports Program VII                      75.0      75.0
872         1978     Technical Assistance III                 10.0      10.0
SUBTOTAL                 1,017.3    411.2
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association          1,016.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                       54.9       0
TOTAL                1,071.8    411.2
/a   Not effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1979, about three and a half years behind schedule. Parts A, F,
and G (Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System)
have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads)
have been substantially completed except before the remainder of the road
can be constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommunica-
tions and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily although
we have had reports that the Project Director did not get as much allocated
in the budget for the cyclone shelters as he requested.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project should be completed by May 1979, about two and a half
years behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor prob-
lems, shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the
embankment as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical
construction and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational
and major agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Project completion is expected within the next few months.
Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality problems have already
been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump
installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural development is
about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit for
1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closinig
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978
and a request for further extension to June 30, 1979 has been approved.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: February 15, 1979
The project is completed. A major setback occurred in September
1977 when the Battali Hill Reservoir failed under test. The contractor has
since carried out all remedial work following failure and the reservoir has
been retested in June 1978. The Kalurgat treatment plant and booster pumping
station have worked successfully since commissioning in September 1977.
Substantial progress has been achieved in fulfilling Section 4.03(a) of the
Credit Agreement pertaining to finances. The Water and Sewerage Authority
(WASA) has further raised tariffs in November 1977. In addition, all Gov-
ernment loans have been converted to equity while IDA loans have been made
repayable by WASA in over 30 years at 3. However, WASA has experienced
continuing difficulty in obtaining payment for arrears owed by the Govern-
ment and its agencies including arrears on Government's employees housing.
WASA continues to provide a large portion of its water to public hydrants for
which it receives no revenue. WASA has also been in default of (i) Section
4.01(c) pertaining to audit: requires that WASA furnish IDA no later than
six months after the end of the fiscal year, audited financial statements and
(ii) Section 4.02(c) pertaining to insurance: requires WASA to take out and
maintain, or make adequate provision for, insurance against such risks and
for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public utility practice.
Processing of final withdrawal applications is underway.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
February 15, 1979
Work on the Project is completed and processing of final withdrawal
applications is underway. Though final completion was three years behind
original target, construction work has been on schedule as established
by the February 1975 supervision mission. The major pumping station at
Narinda has been completed and tested and appears to be a sound installation.
The meter testing stations and laboratory is now completed, equipped and



- 35 -
ANNEX II
staffed. WASA's operating results have improved during the last two years
when an earned surplus was recorded and forecasts show that it will continue
to show a sur,lus even after it begins servicing the IDA Credit in FY79.
However, non-revenue water through public hydrants and illegal connections
remain high and arrears owed by Government agencies have yet to be cleared.
WASA is in default on the covenants relating to (i) audit and (ii) insurance.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 70% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. Completion of
remaining civil works is expected around mid 1980, six months before the
Closing Date. A number of new programs intended to improve the practical
skills of students and increase their involvement in research and extension
have been introduced. The Technical Education component, although 30 months
behind schedule is practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only
60% complete because of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies
Directorate. Efforts to revise curricula and improve quality of teaching
staff are being made. However, action has yet to be taken to complete the
facilities at Joydeppur intended to be used for the training of technical
teachers. (Construction of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are complete with others due for completion
mid-1979 about 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule.  The Sitalakhya
bridge was opened to traffic in December 1977, the Keane bridge repairs were
completed and the bridge opened June 1977, and the improved ferries have been
carrying loaded trucks since July 1977. Progress is now steady on the Feni
bypass and provided no serious problems develop with the paving and stone-
crushing equipment, the bypass should be open to traffic mid-1979. Similarly,
the Roads and Highway Directorate (RHD) building construction progress is
steady with completion also around mid-1979. However, progress on improving
RHD's equipment maintenance repair capacity is slow with no new workshop
construction having taken place.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for eighteen sub-
projects utilizing the full credit amount. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays



- 36 -
ANNEX II
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements were about 3 years
behind initial estimates. Credit accounts are being held open to process
final withdrawal applications.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway and machinery for seed processing has been ordered.  Tender docu-
ments for the final list of machinery and equipment are undergoing final
revision after IDA comments. Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the
other hand, vacancies still exist in the staff to supervise contract growers.
With fifteen trainees presently being trained, most of the planned overseas
staff training programs are well underway.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T
Board were found by IDA to be inadequate. At IDA's suggestion, the Board
has now asked UNDP/ITU for the assistance of a consultant to prepare spe-
cifications and bid documents for the TAXs and the international exchange
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to



- 37 -
ANNEX II
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. The company is currently negotiating arrangements for
provision of assistance during the operations phase.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry



- 38 -
ANNEX II
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and is expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule. All but 8 of the sites have been acquired and the major project items
have been contacted. Completion is about 50% on weighted average. Equip-
ment lists are being revised following 1978 World Bank/FAO guidelines. The
staff development and fellowship program for Agricultural Training Institutes
(ATIs) has been approved by IDA. An expert on "rural institutions" for Bogra
Academy has arrived in September 1978 for a two-year assignment. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is seeking the support of the Ministry of Planning
to assist in resolving the staff shortage problem and the timely replenishment



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds are almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project may release some additional funds for commitment.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating comr-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agreement to finance
incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for
fertilizer.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of February 28, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 96 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 93 have been approved and
three have been held pending clarification by BSB of queries raised during
IDA reviews. As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$5.2 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979, disbursements were US$70.0 million. The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$38.5 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion to generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute Farmers Associations are
becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and kind has increased sub-
stantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily. The project
technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per acre
yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



-42-
ANNEX II
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974; Credit not yet effective
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date:  January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



- 43 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  1975 - mid 1977
(b) Agency which prepared project: IDA/GOB/FAO
(c) Project first presented to IDA: June 1973
(d) First IDA mission to review project: June 1973
(e) Departure of preappraisal mission: March/April 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: February 26, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: June 30, 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Detailed investigations of lake sedimentation and storage
capacity would be completed by September 30, 1980 and the
results forwarded to IDA for its review and comments
(para 57);
(b) Investigations would be undertaken to determine the
10-year flood levels at each lake in connection with
the detailed design of embankments (para 56);
(c) Catch sharing arrangements would be monitored and amended
as appropriate, with a view to ensuring the recovery of as
much of the project investment costs as possible while main-
taining sufficient incentives for project fishermen.
(d) Conditions of effectiveness would be:



- 44 -
ANNEX III
(1) the establishment of the Project Implementation
Unit, including the selection of the Project
Advisor/Acquaculture Specialist and the Engineer
to be in post not later than December 31, 1979; and
(ii) the approval of the Project Proforma by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council.



IBRD 13615
88 45\                                        890 00'                                         89> l1'                JUNE 1978
\ O Kosht81
BANGLADESH
Chuadonga
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Project Location
O&       UH Project Lakes
A      Lake Fishery Stations
- -  Proposed Transmission Lines
\33O~ 4 t_ \\                       j   \Roads
- - \ t  Jcl.vdio  +-, \-   |             2-<   ~~~~~Lakes2330-
Jaydia                                  ___Rivers
IBRD 13616)                      -    -   District Boundaries
- x8 (   -    -    International Boundary
Kaliganj
FAR IDPU R
:  .                 V~~Feehu  ooaepr/              )\      Mrit           \       1f 
(I B RD 13617 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I8D 360
.s-p)urt <)Nr/st   _/     (IB                                           K RD 13620)
.~~~~Prpr                                                                         L r,A     kb'dpr(  
(IBRD ~         ' 13618Dl6I)\V  /
[ff 7D* Xop trx teen pbsdw   I   - 0   ~    v               Z/t        \\\  IJESSORE
iWo/E$*ft*f^               I N D IA
Th   ft #&mn5 W.ood       IO
WwM4meo,ttto *eA.esof    1                    *0I Jj  \y 
jN9od0tf                                        , 55, _ss0to o f
so     r    en tsos                       .         
# -w           aso         4' - .          >;baAadurpur
as, 45'
JhingergachaI
I N D I A           4Bepo                                                                              Noopora    '
Monirompur
B       5AD   S H, I/                                                           h
/a         f              -\23'000   Kcnnyadoh                                                                             2300'
Z                                                      8                                      0         5        10        15       20
(( i          ,                                     .                               ,KILOMETERS
Bay of Bengal89  08915






/588a58                                                                                   BANGLADESH 
I       /=\Cho~~~Chndi gil                    sBNLDS
,  j  "     OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Detail Mop of Proposed Project
Datirkat                                Lake No.l(Baluhar)& No.2(Jaydia)
Raypur                          joy di:                                                           I   I ,   Proposed Embonkments
Lakshmikundu                _         Proposed Access Roads
(Approx. AI ignment)
z  f = z  Proposed Wire Screens
Rood
-w  - ---  Dry Season Road
-~-4-Railway                                2a6
-2326'                                                         A  Lake Fishery                    EI        Swamps(Bill)                           23-26'-
Krishnapur              Station and Hatchery           0,          0;5         1.0
MILES
0      1              ~~~~~~~~2
j / ; /// | ~~~~~~~~~~Rahmatpur fV0rhnu 
G\)   )   l   <gXChobinpur |   /  $  t   ( V )             \    |  Bhobanipur
:= = >/     4g    \                  (<  ~~~~~~~~~Gobindopur                                 Lake f ishery                    T \
%   '   <                    H      .                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Headquartersj 
BA GI .
.... :RGhatpurondaorpu =   a  puu               I                                                                  This map has been prepared by the
L~~~~~~~PRO cT  EA5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L<  ~~~~~~hcoeiac fThoadao
the report to which it is attached.
-  Bazropur      lt/olcur 8The denomination. used and the              w
IN~~~~I                                             Bazrapur        Kof/akur Bil ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this map   z
V                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do not imp y. on the part of the  n
World Bank and its affifiates. any~
A)                                                   -                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~judgment on the legal status of
ofav    84 4gat    X .......... .   88 56    0\                            88058i                                            any teriftory or any endorsement4 <^
Io y  o f  5 n g a f                                                \   \56 '                      o r  a c c e p t en  e   o f   s u c h   b o u n d a rie s .   






8853'                                                      8854'                           ---                         8155
Khogradango                                                      Muchipara               A
\Extarpur              9   Prop e ke, //                                             BANGLADESH
FisheryQ                                                A GLDS
\\and at                    OXBOW  LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
-23023\                                                                                                    Detail Map of Proposed                                           23e23'-
Project Lake No. 3 (Fetehpur)
3                                          .L.......3.)  jProposed Embankments
Proposed Wire Screens
- -'  - \   Proposed Access Road
Begampur                                                                                            (A prox. Alignment)
t > * i/ \ >~~~~~~~~~~~= <% - ~~~~~Dry Season Roods 
te '0...... .... ........   ''.... / <
23221 Swamp  (Bll)
IDI
*              -2 22                   This map has been prepared by the
::R:O:   TA  A '                                 World Bank's staff exclusively for0\                                                     0,
the convenience of the readers of  \_                                      _      __\_I
LNDIi~ <                                              Ithe report to which it is attached                                                M         I L E
The denominations used and the'
......                                 ~~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this map                         0          300        600        900         1200              C
do not imply, on the part of theZ
..... ..                               ~~~~~~~~World Bank and its affiliates, any                                       METERS 
judgment on the legal status of
Bay of Bengal    (       88o53~~~~~~~    any ternitory or any endorsement                                                                       8855               l0






-23018'                                          88056'                            BANGLADESH           88057                                                   88058'  231
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
DETAILED MAP OF PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                         FOa
Joka                                   LAKE NO. 4 (KATHGARA)                                                                    1000,
L. =    'PROPOSED EMBANKMENTS                                                     4-
PROPOSED WIRE SCREENS
-~ \----  =   _ _ _ _PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD            Madarparia
(APPROX. ALIGNMENT)                                        -    /
DRYSEASON ROADS                    )                  . 
\    <   ------_-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~                 PADDY LANDS                 |                      _>  
Kansipur                                                                                                          f
a\                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I
23017'                                                                       KATHGARA                                                                                 2317'-
This map has been prepared by the  Shahpur                                                                  /   )             Sayamnagar
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominationsused and the                                                                                /Poraparahat
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the                                                     PROPOSED
World Bank and its affiliates, any             r = -0PR SEDLAKE
judgment on the legal status of                                                      FISHERY
any teritory or any endorsement                                                      AND I
or acceptance of such boundaries.
INDIA
~~~-,A  ... ~~~~~~~~~~__  ._=__  /
LA 
?.yR ECT4  A  i!\'.  }           Nagarbarni                                                               .5                         1                               c-
z  <   |   15'   8 5   _        K MILES                                                          m _
~~~~~~~.5                   1                1.5                              C4 0)
.1.1                      III                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                808  3i6
SAY O  EtG!.23D16'                         880,56.                                                88D57'                                                   8-2(6






Thn map has been prepared by the World Bait staff -ocl-si-ely for the coemence           8901                                                      8902'
of tha readers of the repot to which it N atrtChed The densminatio-s used and the
baountries shown on this map do not imply, os the pan of the World Bask asd its
aff,iites, asy cdgm-t on the legal tat- of any teritsry or any endorsmeto
acceptance of -nch bo-sdaris./                                                                     To Chaugacha
To Main Road
(fRO  ECT ~~~~~~~~~~~t\~~~~(                                                                                         - -  -  __ ~~~~~~~~~~~PROP OSDSACES  RODAK
| <==== badaltl K3Po ~~~~~~~~DighalsbMga                                                                                                                FIHR STATION>
1                                                                                                 (AR. ALG ETGOBINDAPUR)
gfDhenkipota  e
Mawm pu_ GOBINDAPUR                                                                                       //BANGLADESH
. OBW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
x<,   _                                                                                         :  '  DE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAILED MAP OF PROPOSED PROJECT
't.\8    XINDIA                             Shahazadpur                                                                                                 LAKE NO. 5 (GOBINDAPUR)
f       BAI   ESH          ,                                                          Az matpu r\
'?% 2. '>'\ 0 .5 1 r -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED EMBANKMAENTS
(' Ir iCt lt,                                                  MILES                                                                                          ____PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
Ei                        I               ~ ~ ~                      ~ ~~~~~~ILOM  ER                                                                        DRY SEASON ROAD
Z                             423(13'                         KILOMETERS                                                                                                     SWM   ELc
LIIIFB L  89091SWAMP1 ('L)                  c
89?00'                                                   8gO0li                                                    89O02' 






89002'                                                    89004'                                                    89006'                    BANGLADESH                        89008'
This map has been prpred by the World Bank's staff exclusivly for the coedanriee                                            OXBOW     LAKES  FISHERY    PROJECT
of the reders of the report to which it is attached. The deno minations sed and thePR                                                                                                J C
boundarids shown on this map ds not imply, on the part of the World Bank and its
affilate, 'any judgamnt on the legal sttus of any teitoor any endorsemento                                                       DETAIlED  MAP OF PROPOSED  PROJECT
wcp.oof sach budre.DTIE                                                                                                                       A      FPOOE                 RJC
LAKE NO. 6 (MARJAT)
't  <  ' ' PROPOSED EM8ANKMENTS
PROPOSED WIRE SCREENS
>|I                                                                                    Chandpara                                 -  -I (APPROX. ALIGNMENT)
{            X           /        X              _             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~~~Chandpara  -- - DRY SEASON ROADS
|   1 r                  t (            \                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~Lakkital Kh7al   // \ ~
23019'                                                                                                                                     Mathanpur                                         2319'-
<                                                           EXISTINr LAKE m                             /Kumiarhati
Rampur
|   \  < /  / /   Jagadispur                                A  PROPOSED LAKE
)<  //                                                    \             \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~FISHERY STAT ION ) 
X     //                                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Mi rzapu r                              Itannd
11   ,      4        /X/                                                                                                  Biswanathpurwnathpu
/23017                                                                                                                                                     2                .
/mu ktadaha
t  317' 1 t . Putahuda                                     MILES r                                                AFA
/  ;  / z : X = z ; D Dhaksh~~~~~~~~~~~Z:in Sagar                                                                                                            SH X
c \   Ichhapur  _/                   -    -- -         -                               0                        1.5                         3
M                                                                                                                 KILOMETERSINCA
- To Chau,gaha                                                                                                                                                         BAY OF                   . ENA
89%02'                                                    89004'                                                    89006'






_________  400  _____________________________                               400 -                   _                                                                -_    . __1
,                                                   _ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~10 4    ,00  30,  90o ,   30,  20,  30,    0 0    20 30w                                             NLAEy        f
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D                                                                                                0140
Anea fot Future E.pansion  ...                        *_ta IL. 
100 . 200oL
J                                         8         8          Total BuildmgGroundSPt e 8h     g       g           4-,                                  ac_en<ev/her_>so-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~TUeWIltheraar enaict i isataced
_-   -                                                                                                                   1    =   =    o   _  '   anV    terdtorf y anv endorsemant~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld 8 -   ~ ty f.
Total~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~oa Dugoutnondttc PghS                                                                               do nti ihay en she |e 5n ___ __   EEALYuoTEETA HATHR
Hoot,           .                                                            World Bank end its arndates, any~~~~~~~h W_ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.W~ I1- SP- 8 h.   El   El d| Zh . f h.OPEABLHRLK
G.. t H---                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Train-  Hot  i Hathet                             Wltdgitn  sin tdhe ta/ftin  o
|_ _ __ _        __ _ __ _ ____  _ i _ _  ___  -   __ _   __   _ __   _  ___    __   __ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ 0400a1  _ __ _ I _| _t_ T_ t_   __ _ |__                                   anye T e ne lny u po tr h rck otaheiensnaiyoliltorsinnent
Z3  tZZ          Zi2     0ZI            51  0   30 T20  30   30  30nds  20  30Z    Z  _t   Z _  _ I_  _ I _ I_I
-~LtOHsESCoes        000A0 _OOt t            -             _               X       -BANGLADESH
H'    ~PROPOSED OXBOW LAKES FISHERY
I     I j2!PROJECT
I   I    I    I            ~~GENERALLAYOUTOFTHECENTRALHATCHERY
I0           J J_FCOMPLEX AT BALU HAR LAKE
I                                                      No/n. J I1  L     1  1  IThp gi-e,otl iuyoulpd,, foro/hericko fhutcheor--nto bii/ /e,m,I
FI  -.1  I-.-~~~~~~~1  1 1 1 1                      L~~~~I -I I LI It-  -                       to/thp Beftihar Ldkt -opfnx. Htounvn, then-mhnro/Liu/dii
i     ILt..t    I                         s.,d pon,ds -uldiifferocccording tooc-hl itnke
a 9      ongd {20n1T.,.(tP-&d                        N.t11et l~od -l~210 en T.01 15 toed.l__ 
0-1-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -}                                                                      - - - -- - -f - -w 2z
__U_           - I_
000             2D0                                                                                W
_M_T_RS



