Document of
The World Bank    FJL   COPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2295-BD
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 12, 1979
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
1his document has a restricted distribution and may be used b) recipients only in the perforimiance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 30.52 to the
Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and,
consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The
rate below has been used throughout this report except where other-
wise stated.
US$           =   Tk 15.0
Tk 1           =   US$0.067
Tk 1 million  =   US$66,667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                -   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                =   1.509 kilometers (km)
I square mile (sq mi)          640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)               =   82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
I metric ton (ton)         =   26.8 md
M                          =   million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     =   Asian Development Bank
BFDC    =   Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation
BJMSS   =   Fishermen's Cooperative Societies
BJSB    =   Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank
BKB         Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSB     =   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BTT         Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department
DANIDA  =   Danish International Development Agency
DFO     =   District Fishery Officer
DOF     =   Department of Fisheries
FAO     =   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSMF        Fish Seed Multiplication Farm
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
IRDP    =   Integrated Rural Development Program
PDB         Power Development Board
PIU     =   Project Implementation Unit
TCCA        Thana Central Cooperative Association
TFO     =   Thana Fishery Officer
UNDP    =   United Nations Development Program
UNICEF  =   United Nations Children's Emergency Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Composite Fish Culture  -  Growing two or more species of fish in a
pond to optimize productivity; often
synonymous with polyculture or mixed
fish culture.
Fingerling               -  Young fish of about 2.5 cm or larger.
Fish seed                -  Fish from the stages of egg to large
fingerling.
Fry                      -  Fish from hatchling stage to about
2.5 cm size.
Hatchling                -  Fish from emergence from egg to about
0.8 cm size.
Spawn                    -  Fertilized eggs and hatchlings.
Tank                     -  A pond or a small reservoir of variable size,
mostly for irrigation use.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                       1
II. *   THE FISHERIES  SECTOR  ..................          ..............
Overview  ............*. ......................                             1
Administration .................   3
Inland Fisheries .............................................. 0.....      6
Inland Fisheries Development Activities  ....* ........                     8
III.    AQUACULTURAL POTENTIALS AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES  ....                      11
Potentials              ..........................................         11
Present Oxbow Lake Management Practices  ......... o ...                   12
IV.    THE PROJECT  .......................................... ..                 14
Location and Climate  ..................           .... ..........         14
Objectives  ..............................................  .......       14
Main Investment Features  .................. .          .........         15
Aquaculture Program   . ....... . . . . . . .  ...................... ..o .... .  18
Cost Estimates  .         ............................. .........         21
Financing  ...........          ...............................           23
Procurement  ......... *...........................................       23
Disbursements  .......           ................................         24
Accounts and Audits  ..                . .  ...............    ...............  24
Environmental  Impact  ......... .. ...  ...................... .         24
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..........           ..     .............    25
Department of Fisheries  ............          ..     ...............     25
Project Implementation Unit  ..........          ..     .............     25
Lake Tenure            ....................................... . .       26
Cooperation with Lake Fishermen  . .........I   ...........    26
Annual Work Programs  ..............         ..      ................    27
Maintenance                             ..                               27
Technical Assistance    ..27
Training   . .28
Progress Reports                           ..28
Monitoring and Evaluation    .                     .28
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission, composed of
Messrs. D. Lee, D. Hodgkinson, B. Kanchanalak (IDA) and Mr. V. R. P. Sinha
(Consultant), which visited Bangladesh in March/April 1978.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Vi.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES     ....................    29
Production        ..........................................  29
Marketing   ............................ ...............  29
Prices       ..............................................  30
VII.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....    ................    30
Financial Analysis ......    ............................    30
Cost  Recovery       .......................................  31
Economic  Analysis   ...................................  31
Sensitivity  Tests  .....  ..............................  32
Project Beneficiaries ...................     ............    33
Employment  Impact  ...................................  33
Project Risks ........ .    ................ .*. ........    34
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................    34
ANNEXES
I - Production and Trade of Fish and Fish Products
2 - Fishing Craft and Fishermen
3 - Organization Structure of DOF
4 - Estimated Lake Storage Capacity and Sedimentation
5 - Works and Equipment Requirements
6 - Cost Estimates
7 - Credit Allocation and Schedule of Disbursements
8 - Technical Assistance
9 - Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return
10 - Economic Rate of Return
11  - Project Implementation Schedule
12 - Related Documents in Project File
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
2.1 Total Inland Water Area
4.1 Proposed Oxbow Lakes
4.2  Cost Estimates
7.1 Sensitivity Analysis
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13615  Project Location
IBRD 13616 Lake No. 1 (Baluhar) and No. 2(Jaydia)
IBRD 13617  Lake No. 3 (Fetehpur)
IBRD 13618 Lake No. 4 (Kathgara)
IBRD 13619  Lake No. 5 (Gobindapur)
IBRD 13620 Lake No. 6 (Marjat)
IBRD 13683  General Layout of the Central Hatchery Complex at Baluhar Lake



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      With the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation, the
World Bank undertook a series of major studies to define economic policy
options and development plans which could be pursued in future years. The
Land and Water Resources Study (IBRD Report PS-13) completed in December 1972
provided, inter alia, tentative proposals for accelerating development of the
inland fisheries subsector, including a suggestion for a pioneer project to
develop the country's oxbow lakes.
1.02      By June 1973, a project identification mission had identified 15
oxbow lakes in the Southwest (Jessore District) as having fisheries develop-
ment potential. Detailed physical surveys of the identified lakes commenced
in 1975 when IDA provided US$70,000 (under Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD)
for consulting engineers. The lake surveys were completed in mid-1976, form-
ing the basis for a project preparation report submitted in mid-1977. The
preparation report (BANGLADESH - Rural Fisheries Development Project) was
prepared by Dacca Office staff with assistance from the FAO Fishery Advisor
in Bangladesh and Department of Fisheries staff.
1.03      Project preparation was followed by a preappraisal mission which
visited Bangladesh in March/April 1978. The mission recommended several
important changes in project design with a view to (a) increasing lake pro-
duction benefits to the point where required investments are more justifiable,
and (b) simplifying institutional arrangements to facilitate project imple-
mentation. The mission also suggested holding the number of project lakes
to six to avoid dilution of management capability among too many sites.
1.04      GOB informed the Bank in late July 1978 of its acceptance of the
preappraisal mission's findings and requested that steps be taken to expedite
project processing. Given the general convergence of views of the Bank and
GOB on the revised project concept, its was decided in August 1978 that a
Staff Appraisal Report be prepared on the basis of the preappraisal mission's
recommendations. Accordingly, this report reflects the findings of the
March/April 1978 preappraisal mission which consisted of Messrs. D. Lee,
T.D. Hodgkinson, and B. Kanchanalak (IDA) and V.R.P. Sinha (Consultant).
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Overview
2.01      The fisheries sector is assuming an increasingly important role
in the economy of Bangladesh, with fisheries now contributing approximately
5 percent to GDP and providing a livelihood to some 880,000 fishermen.



2.02      The physical base for the country's aquatic resources includes over
2 million ha of open and impounded inland waters and a 480 km coastline on
the Bay of Bengal. In addition, some 3 million ha of paddy fields are flooded
from 4 to 6 months each year, providing several hundred thousand tons of fis
for the local population.
2.03      Despite an extensive resource base, fish production in Bangladesh
has grown only slightly in the last decade, from 800,000 tons in 1965 to
824,000 tons in 1975 (Annex 1). 1/ Historically, some 90% of the total catch
has come from inland areas. In the period 1970-75, the production of fish
from inland waters rose from 727,000 tons to 735,000 tons, representing an
average annual growth rate well under 1 percent.
2.04      Fishery products rank fourth in importance among exports, 2/ pro-
viding nearly US$17 million in foreign exchange in 1976/77 (about 4 percent
of total export earnings). 3/ Since independence, the value of fishery ex-
ports has grown by an average of 26 percent per annum in real terms, led by
rapid increases in sales of frozen prawns, shrimp and froglegs. The tradi-
tional export of fresh and dried fish, mainly to India, continues to decline
in favor of relatively high-valued, processed seafood exports. The principal
markets are now Japan and the United States.
2.05      In the domestic economy, fish are a principal food source, supplying
some 80 percent of the total animal protein intake. On a per capita basis,
however, fish consumption is extremely low, having declined from over 13 kg
in the mid-1960s to 10-12 kg at present. This decline is in large part attri-
butable to the country's high population growth rate (2.8 percent), which
greatly exceeds the rate of expansion of fishery production. Other related
factors include a low per capita income (US$110 per annum) and generally poor
efficiency in both inland and marine fisheries.
2.06      Traditional methods of fishing predominate in both inland and coastal
areas. Of the roughly 80,000 fishing craft in Bangladesh in 1975/76, only
4,000 were motorized. 4/ In percentage terms, approximately 4 percent of all
inland fishing craft had motors; for marine fishing craft, some 13 percent had
motors. Traditional methods and practices have been perpetuated by the pre-
carious circumstances under which most fishermen live. Particularly in the
rural areas, fishermen are often indebted either to fish merchants or to local
money lenders to whom they must sell their catch at below market prices. Many
1/   Figures derived by DOF on the basis of extrapolated per capita con-
sumption data. Bangladesh does not have an operational catch reporting
system which could serve as the basis for more reliable estimates of
fisheries production and trade.
2/   Behind jute, leather and tea.
3/   Based on Export Promotion Bureau statistics.
4/   Annex 2.



fishermen are known to borrow money against future catches in order to pur-
chase boats or equipment. Compounding the difficulties experienced by fisher-
men is that only '0-15 percent are estimated to be literate, with not more
than 1 percent having had secondary schooling or higher education.
2.07      Since independence, the Government of Bangladesh has emphasized
accelerated development of the fishery sector. In its First Five Year Plan
(1972/73 to 1977/78), Government set forth an ambitiouis program to increase
production and exports and to improve the socio-economic conditions of fisher-
men. More recently, the Two Year Interim Plan (1978/79-1979/80) restates the
importance of fisheries and proposes the intensification of fish culture in
ponds and tanks. The Plan further states that work is needed to increase
the productivity of lakes and impounded waters by habitat improvements and
appropriate biological management techniques. The proposed project, by
focusing on the development of presently underutilized oxbow lakes, is con-
sistent with the priorities set forth in the Interim Plan. Overall, the
Plan target is to increase inland fisheries production by at least five per-
cent above the benchmark production achieved in 1976/77.
Administration
2.08      Fisheries administration and management in Bangladesh is character-
ized by multiple control, with responsibilities divided among the following
organizations: Department of Fisheries (DOF) under the Ministry of Fisheries
and Livestock; Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation (BFDC); Fisher-
men's Cooperative Societies (BJMSS); and Integrated Rural Development Program
(IRDP). Institutional credit for fisheries development is provided by the
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB), the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB), the Bangladesh
Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BISB), the nationalized commercial banks and, to a lesser
extent, through the IRDP-organized thana cooperatives (TCCA). In addition,
credit for fishpond development and/or rehabilitation is available through
BKB and commercial banks under the Special (100 Crore) Agricultural Credit
Program.
2.09      The Department of Fisheries was established in 1943 to perform the
following functions: research, extension, training, administration of fishe-
ries ordinances, promotion of fisheries development, legislation, licensing
and certification. DOF was recently brought under the control of the newly
formed (December 1977) Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock and given a mandate
to focus on the development of fisheries and aquaculture. In the First Five
Year Plan (1972/73 to 1977/78), Tk 212.95 million was earmarked for develop-
ment projects administered by DOF. Of the total program budget for 1976/77,
Tk 42.3 million was allocated for capital expenditures and Tk 26.2 million
was to be used for current expenses.
2.10      DOF currently employs some 1,400 officers and support staff.  In
addition to Headquarters personnel in Dacca, there are four divisional and
18 district offices (Annex 3). Out of 415 Thana Fishery Officer (TFO) posi-
tions in mid-1977, only 279 positions were filled. There were also numerous
vacancies among field assistants, who work under TFOs. A principal weakness
of DOF is inadequate finance, which has resulted in low staff motivation and



-4-
effectiveness. In addition, DOF has been hampered by a lack of autonomy and
an outdated management system. GOB is aware of these deficiencies and is
seeking to correct them by strengthening DOF's management, staff and operating
budget. 1/
2.11      The Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation is an autonomous
agency under the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock with responsibility for
the commercial exploitation of marine fisheries, primarily in the Bay of
Bengal. BFDC is governed by a five-member Board of Directors and has separate
divisions responsible for finance, planning and marketing. The 1976/77 bud-
get was some Tk 91 million, of which Tk 73 million was allocated for capital
expenditures and the remainder for current expenses. Until recently, BFDC's
major activity was the operation of 14 large trawlers in the Bay of Bengal.
However, this operation has not been very successful and BFDC is in the
process of scrapping a number of the boats. BFDC also operates a fishing
harbor at Chittagong, three wholesale fish markets, a small fish processing
complex at Cox's Bazaar and a net factory at Comilla.
2.12      Fishermen's Cooperative Societies are organized in a three tier
pyramidal structure.  The base of the pyramid is formed by some 370 primary
societies with a total membership of 375,000.  There are 88 secondary socie-
ties and, at the apex, a national society known as the BJMSS. 2/  The objective
of BJMSS is to organize fishermen and to undertake fisheries exploitation on
a commercial basis. At present, the national society owns and operates 11 ice
plants/cold storage units, a ferro-cement boatyard, a net-making factory,
freezing plants and workshops. BJMSS employs a staff of 200 persons with an
annual salary expenditure of about Tk 1.1 M. A major function of BJMSS is the
supply and service program which enables it to import fishing materials for
cooperative members, exempt from all taxes and duties. Since 1972, BJMSS has
imported over Tk 55 M of nylon rope, diesel engines, floats and other equip-
ment. BJMSS also controls a number of lakes, which it rents for fishing.
2.13      It is generally recognized that BJMSS is dominated by non-fishermen
and traders. As a result, few of its activities are specifically oriented
towards improving conditions among the neediest segments of the fishing
community. BJMSS credit operations, in particular, have been mainly for
the development of ice plants and cold storage facilities. A limited amount
of credit (Tk 2 M) was provided for cyclone-affected fishermen, but this was
a special undertaking rather than a long-term program.
2.14      The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) 3/ was created in
1970 to supervise the implementation of various rural development activities.
1/   In late 1978, DOF underwent a series of personnel changes, including
the appointment of a new Director. In addition, financial outlays
for DOF have increased (in real terms) by at least 5% above average
annual First Plan expenditures.
2/   Bangladesh Jatiyo Matshajibi Samabay Samiti.
3/   Under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives.



-5-
Since its creation, IRDP has been deeply involved in the revitalization of
thana and village level cooperatives. In thanas with fish ponds, IRDP thana
officers work with DOF personnel to organize the landless people in surround-
ing villages into fishery cooperatives. 1/ These cooperatives are given the
exclusive right to manage and harvest village ponds. In cases where such
ponds are in derelict condition, the cooperative provides medium-term credit
for rehabilitation. IRDP presently operates in some 250 thanas and is seek-
ing to expand its activities to cover 300 thanas by 1979/80. 2/
2.15      The Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) is the principal source of agricul-
tural credit in the country, with authorized share capital of Tk 200 M. 3/
Established by Presidential Order in 1973, BKB is authorized to provide credit
facilities for crop production, horticulture, forestry and fisheries. At
present, the BKB staff numbers some 3,200 of which 350 are employed in the
head office and the remainder of BKB's network of ten regional offices and
171 branches. BKB management is anxious to increase lending for fishery
development and is contemplating the establishment of a separate Fishing
Credit Department.
2.16      The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) was established in 1972 to provide
credit facilities and equity support to industrial concerns. Current activity
in the fishery sector consists of provision of credit for shrimp industry
development, utilizing in part the proceeds of an IDA Credit for US$25 M
received in 1976 (Credit No. 632-BD).
2.17      The Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB) was established to serve
as the apex financial institution for cooperatives in the country. Its
affiliated cooperatives include 62 Fishermen's Central Societies and 4,172
Fishermen's Primary Societies. However, the viability of BJSB has been
seriously eroded by its increasing burden of overdues.
2.18      Of the six nationalized commercial banks, two show recent lending
activities in the fishery sector. The Pubali Bank lent some Tk 11.6 M for
fish culture in 1976/77, while the Agrani Bank granted loans of Tk 15.7
M for fish processing and marketing in the same period. The fishery credit
operations of both institutions have expanded considerably since 1975/76.
The recipients of commercial bank credit are primarily large-scale
entrepreneurs.
2.19      Despite the existence of an extensive banking network, the credit
needs of small-scale fishermen have been largely unmet by institutional
sources. As a result, village money lenders charging excessive rates of
1/   This approach has been followed in the Bank-financed Rural Development I
Project (Credit No. 631-BD).
2/   Bangladesh has a total of 413 thanas.
3/   50% was initially subscribed by the Government, which is the only
shareholder.



- 6 -
interest remain active in rural Bangladesh, providing an estimated 70 percent
of the credit received by small farmers and fishermen. 1/
Inland Fisheries
2.20      Bangladesh has an extensive inland water area covering an aggregate
of 1,473,000 ha (Table 2.1). An additional 2.9 million ha of paddy is inun-
dated for 4-6 months a year, providing a rich feeding and breeding ground for
various species of freshwater fish and prawns. Total production from inland
waters amounted to 735,000 MT in 1975/76. With an estimated 660,000 inland
fishermen, average catch was on the order of 1.1 MT per fishermen per annum.
Table 2.1: TOTAL INLAND WATER AREA
(ha)
Rivers, Streams and Canals                    830,000
National Depressions and Oxbow Lakes          293,000
Estuaries and Other Brackish Waters           183,000
Kaptai Lake                                    91,000
Ponds and Tanks                                76,000
Total                              1,473,000
Source: Department of Fisheries.
For analytical purposes, it is convenient to classify inland waters as
either open or impounded.
2.21      Open Waters.  The Padma, Meghna and Brahmaputra rivers and their
tributaries are most important for carp, catfish, featherbacks, and giant
freshwater prawns, and during the monsoon season (May to October) are also
the source of the valuable migratory Indian shad (Hilsa ilisha).
2.22      The deltaic "Sunderbans" area, a large swampy forest, is inter-
spersed with many estuarine tributaries and streams, interconnected with
numerous channels. These areas are very productive and support large stocks
of Indian shad, threadfins, pomfret and marine prawns.
2.23      Fishing in the rivers and estuaries is carried on throughout the
year and peaks during the winter months and the middle of the summer season
when migratory Indian shad are abundant. In addition to these capture fish-
eries, the rivers and estuaries provide an important source of fish eggs and
fry which are collected for further cultivation in managed ponds.
2.24      Impounded Waters.  Freshwater impoundments include oxbow lakes,
defunct streams, and lowlying agricultural lands seasonally or perennially
1/   Agricultural Credit Study Project, Phase I Report.  Robert R. Nathan
Associates, December 6, 1977.



filled from adjacent rivers or monsoon rains. Except for the oxbow lakes,
these bodies of water are generally shallow and enriched by fresh supplies
of silt introduced by annual floods. Juveniles of various species, mainly
carp, catfish and featherbacks, enter the impoundments with the annual floods.
When the floods ,ubside these areas are isolated, either naturally or by the
construction of embankments, thus permitting the growth of juvenile fish to
marketable size.
2.25      Brackish water impoundments consist of lowlying estuarine areas,
defunct river beds, tidal inlets, and swamps which are inundated at high
tide. The tidal waters introduce juvenile brackish water prawns and sea-fish.
Some of the impoundments are protected by embankments and sluices. The main
species produced in these impoundments are mullets, threadfin and prawns.
In some of the impoundments, fish rearing is alternated with rice cultivation
during the monsoon rains. In addition to the impoundments mentioned above,
which depend on seasonal inundation, there are many manmade ponds and tanks
on agricultural holdings used for the rearing of fish fry, water supplies,
irrigation water and food fish production, mainly Indian carp taken seasonally
from the rivers.
2.26      Except for some privately-owned ponds and tanks, all the inland
waters are, by constitutional provision, within the public domain and their
use for fisheries is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Fisheries
and Livestock.
2.27      Before Independence, inland waters were divided and the exclusive
right to fish was auctioned by Government to the highest bidder. The dura-
tion of the lease varied from one to six years. The lessee, usually a fish-
merchant or money lender, negotiated with fishermen for the right to fish on
payment of a cash rent and/or share of the catch.
2.28      This system still prevails in most of the waters in the public
domain. Since 1973, however, modifications have been introduced to give
priority to leases from the Ministry of Land Administration to the Department
of Fisheries, on the basis of a negotiated rent; and to fishermen's coopera-
tives, on the basis of the average rental over the preceding three years.
2.29      The prevalence of the short-term lease-auction system, which was
established in the past mainly for the purpose of raising revenue, greatly
reduces the incentive to invest in resource management, since lessees are
primarily concerned only with maximizing the catch from a particular water
area during the period of their leases. Without the security provided by
the assurance of long-term tenure, this low level of resource management is
likely to continue and to adversely affect inland fish production.
2.30      Aside from the inherent weakness of the lease-auction system, inland
fisheries are faced with problems of overfishing due to population pressures 1/
1/   Population density in Blngladesh is one of the highest in the world
with 558 persons per km .



-8-
and unregulated access to many inland waters. In this regard, local experts
claim that the capture of of wild stocks from both open and impounded waters
i-s reached a degree of intensity such that the stocks and hence catch rates
have fallen significantly. There is also evidence that the indiscriminate
application of pesticides has caused large scale mortality of wild stocks,
especially those grazing flooded paddy fields. Taken together, these factors
suggest that the scope for taking increased catches from wild stocks is quite
limited.
2.31      A number of actions have been taken to increase the efficiency of
the inland fisheries subsector. Though the basic lease-auction system remains
prevalent, GOB has shown a willingness to consider longer-term leases to
encourage investment and promote improved resource management practices. To
control pollution, GOB has established a Water Pollution Control Board and a
Technical Committee on the Use of Pesticides.
2.32      To an increasing extent, training is being recognized as an import-
ant element in inland fisheries development. The Fisheries Training Institute
at Chandpur (established in the early sixties) continues to function, with
present emphasis on in-service training. The training of new fishery person-
nel is now being undertaken by the Faculty of Fisheries of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University at Mymensingh. Assistance for development of an
aquaculture complex at Mymensingh is being provided by UNDP and DANIDA. Voca-
tional training for fishermen is carried out at four centers:  Chandpur,
Mymensingh, Barisal and Serajgang. During 1976/77, the centers trained a
total of 85 fishermen in modern fishing methods and aquaculture. An expanded
program of vocational training is under consideration, but has not yet been
undertaken due to budgetary constraints.
Inland Fisheries Development Activities
2.33      In order to increase the efficiency of the inland fisheries sub-
sector, GOB is undertaking a wide-ranging aquaculture development program.
Of the twenty-six projects currently in effect, four are being undertaken
directly by GOB (total amount US$3.9 million). The remaining twenty-two
projects (total amount US$9.6 million) are being funded by both multilateral
and bilateral donors, as well as through voluntary agencies such as CARE and
Caritas.
2.34      The main thrust of GOB efforts is on the management and rehabilita-
tion of derelict ponds, for which approximately US$2.1 million has been allo-
cated since 1973. Some 35% of the allocated funds are earmarked for pond
rehabilitation loans, to be channelled through BKB and other banks to poten-
tial fish farmers. To complement its operational programs, GOB is providing
US$1.6 million during the period 1975-79 for continued development of the
Freshwater Fisheries Research Center at Chandpur.
2.35      Among the multilateral lending agencies, the World Bank has the
largest ongoing inland fisheries program, with fisheries components in the
Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr. 605-BD) as well as Rural Development I
(Cr. 631-BD).



2.36      The Karnafuli Irrigation Project provides US$3.3 million (about
11% of the total project cost) for studies of fishery development in both the
Muhuri 1/ and Karnafuli Irrigation Project areas and construction of a modern
carp hatchery in the area covered by the Chandpur II Irrigation Project
(Credit No. 340-BD). At full development, the carp hatchery 2/ will produce
20-25 million fingerlings per annum for periodic stocking in water bodies
adversely affected by irrigation works in the Chandpur area. Construction
of these works has, as anticipated, made it difficult or impossible for finger-
lings to naturally enter areas traditionally utilized by local fishermen. As
a result, fishery production in the Chandpur Unit has declined by an estimated
30 percent.
2.37      In addition to providing fry for the stocking of water bodies cut
off from natural sources of juvenile fish, implementation of the fisheries
sub-project is expected to significantly enhance Bangladeshi technical capa-
bilities for the induced breeding of carp species. Consultants have been
engaged to supervise engineering and construction and to provide technical
assistance to DOF personnel responsible for operating the proposed hatchery.
Thus far, on the job training has been provided for some 30 DOF Fishery
Officers and an additional 10 officers have received overseas training.
Despite some initial delays, implementation of the fisheries sub-project is
proceeding according to plan, thanks in large degree to the sustained efforts
of DOF. The Karnafuli Irrigation Project became effective in February 1976
and is scheduled for completion by June 30, 1980.
2.38      In the Rural Development I Project, approximately US$1.3 million
(5% of the total project cost) has been allocated for the rehabilitation of
derelict ponds and for the organization of Thana Fishery Cooperatives to
serve the needs of landless villagers in the project area. In addition, the
project provides for the training of district and village-level fishery offi-
cers, including the hiring of an additional fishery officer and two fieldmen
in each of the seven project thanas. Technical support for certain project
activities is being provided by FAO and UNICEF. The project became effective
in August 1976, and is scheduled for completion by June 30, 1981.
2.39      Ongoing inland fisheries project support provided by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is currently restricted to the supply of materials for
a fish marketing project (US$0.163 million) and technical assistance for pond
culture operations in the northern part of the country.
2.40      ADB involvement will increase sharply if GOB approves a recently
appraised US$38.1 million Aquaculture Development Project. As presently
1/   Credit No. 725-BD.  In the Muhuri Unit, fish production in a poldered
area of 1,900 ha is expected to increase as proper management techniques
are implemented.
2/   Construction of the hatchery and rearing facilities is expected to
commence in early 1979 at a site 25 km southwest of Chandpur. By 1980
it is expected that the hatchery will be supplying high quality fry
to local fish farmers.



- 10 -
envisioned, the project would include an ADB loan of US$18.0 million to
cover 100% of foreign exchange requirements and some 14% of local currency
costs. The proposed project would include the following activities:
(i) establishment of five fish hatcheries and improvement
of 50 fish seed multiplication farms (FSMF);
(ii) fresh-water shrimp hatchery and rearing;
(iii)  fish pens in inland waters;
(iv) fish cages in Kaptai Lake;
(v) smallholder fishponds and shrimp estate;
(vi) a fish net plant;
(vii)  fish processing facilities; and
(viii)  ice plants and storage facilities.
2.41      Though the above-listed activities would take place at specified
sites throughout the country, clarifications have been obtained from ADB that
none of the activities would take place in or near the proposed Oxbow Lakes
Fishery Project area. Implementation of the ADB project is estimated to
take from three to five years from the date of effectiveness of the loan.
2.42      Aside from the World Bank and ADB, multilateral project support
and technical assistance is provided by UNDP, FAO and UNICEF. A new and
important area of UNDP/FAO involvement concerns operational assistance for
GOB's recently-constructed Aquaculture Experiment Station at Mymensingh.
UNICEF activities include support for a scheme to strengthen the fisheries
extension service as well as technical assistance for the establishment of
a nationwide network of fish seed multiplication farms.
2.43      Bilateral assistance for inland fisheries development has been pro-
vided by Denmark, Norway, China, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United
States. Assistance from Denmark (through DANIDA) includes approximately
US$0.5 million for construction of the Aquaculture Experiment Station at
Mymensingh. UK support is for technical assistance for fish farming in con-
nection with a production and marketing project at Nimgachi (total amount
US$2.0 million). In order to develop and improve the skills of Bangladeshi
fish culturists, the People's Republic of China is providing training courses
and study tours in China for some 75 individuals.
2.44      Development assistance provided by voluntary agencies amounts to
approximately US$0.3 million. Four of the six ongoing projects involve
technical assistance for pond culture fisheries. The remaining projects
provide materials, small boats and gear to improve the efficiency of tradi-
tional fishermen. Both CARE and the World Food Program have ongoing food-
for-work projects aimed at the rehabilitation of derelict ponds throughout
the country.



- 11 -
2.45      Of all the projects now in effect, none is oriented towards increas-
ing production in oxbow lakes. GOB is aware of this imbalance in the fisheries
development program and is attaching high priority to future projects aimed at
exploiting oxbow lake potentials.
III. AQUACULTURAL POTENTIALS AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
Potentials
3.01      As a deltaic country laced with rivers, estuaries, ponds and lakes,
Bangladesh is ideally suited for inland fish farm development, providing great
potential for rapid increases in fish production. The high natural product-
ivity of inland waters in Bangladesh is attributable to a combination of in-
tensive solar energy and soil and water which are rich in nutrients. A major
source of nutrients is through the deposition of alluvial silts by the Ganges-
Brahmaputra river system. Rain and monsoon floods accelerate the accumulation
of nutrients in low-lying water bodies distributed throughout the countryside.
3.02      The Department of Fisheries estimates that the country has approxi-
mately 155,000 ha of impounded inland waters which are readily available for
fish culture. Additional extensive inland water areas need to be reclaimed
before they can be brought into regular production. Present yields from
unfertilized ponds generally do not exceed 600 kg/ha/yr. In fertilized ponds,
there are instances where yields of approximately 1,625 kg/ha/yr have been
obtained. The scope for significantly higher yields has been demonstrated
in India and elsewhere in Asia, where multi-species carp culture, termed
composite culture or polyculture, is becoming increasingly popular. A major
advantage of the polyculture approach is that the feeding habits of different
species are harmonized to optimally utilize available food resources.
3.03      Composite culture techniques are well-suited for oxbow lakes, where
it is estimated that yields in the range of 600 to 1,400 kg/ha/yr can be
achieved. To realize this potential, an assured supply of high quality seed
is an essential prerequisite. The provision of such seed is now possible
through improvements in induced breeding techniques (hypophysation). 1/ Under
this procedure, injections of pituitary gland extract from mature carps are
used to trigger the spawning of fish in captivity. Hypophysation is employed
as a regular part of fish culture operations in many parts of India and was
first introduced in Bangladesh by DOF personnel in 1966. Subsequently,
support was provided through the UNICEF and FAO-sponsored fishery development
activities cited earlier (para 2.42).
3.04      In addition to polyculture and induced breeding techniques, aqua-
cultural productivity is closely linked to the concept of water body control.
Given the recurrent monsoon floods characteristic of Bangladesh, embankments
1/   Fish farmers in areas where induced breeding is not practiced must
rely on the collection of wild seed, the supply and quality of which
is subject to considerable variation.



- 12 -
and other water control works are used to prevent predatory fish from enter-
ing, and stocked fish from escaping impounded areas. Another aspect of con-
trol relates to the management of aquatic weeds, which heavily infest many
oxbow lakes. In general, surface weeds such as water hyacinth must be manually
cleared on a periodic basis, while the spread of submerged weeds can be
checked with the introduction of grass carp. An added advantage of water
control is that it facilitates the maintenance of appropriate water quality
standards, a key element of high yielding aquacultural practice.
3.05      In some lakes and ponds, productivity may be limited as a result
of nutrient deficiencies.  In these cases, high yields may, nevertheless, be
achievable by means of fertilization and supplementary feeding. Commonly
used fertilizers include organic manures (like cow dung, poultry droppings
and compost) and inorganic chemicals (nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic
fertilizers). To condition the pond soil and water for a better response from
added fertilizers, it is also common to add lime. Supplementary carp feeds
include oil cakes (from mustard seed or ground nut), rice or wheat bran, and
certain aquatic weeds for grass carp.
3.06      Utilization of the above-mentioned techniques requires a nucleus
of trained personnel in fields such as hatchery management, induced breeding
and aquatic weed management. In India, short-term training programs have
been successfully developed to impart these skills within 3 to 6 months,
using a combination of classroom and on-the-job training. The initial
formulation of operational procedures for specific water bodies may require
a specialized technical assistance input, as is being provided in connection
with the Karnafuli Irrigation Fisheries Sub-project (para 2.36). The estab-
lishment of these procedures, together with the training efforts mentioned
above, can significantly enhance potentials for the rapid development of
self-sustaining aquacultural enterprises.
Present Oxbow Lake Management Practices
3.07      The present status of government-managed oxbow lakes leaves consider-
able scope for improvement. A pervasive constraint concerns the relative
scarcity of fish seed, which is currently collected from rivers during the
monsoon season. Under this arrangement, both the quantity and quality of the
spawn are difficult to control, and the available evidence suggests that the
situation is worsening. In the case of seed quality, a major problem is iden-
tifying and separating carp spawn from the spawn of predatory species which
resemble carp spawn. Since none of the lakes in Bangladesh are serviced by
modern hatchery facilities, it has not been possible to utilize induced breed-
ing techniques for quality control.
3.08      Because carp is a preferred table fish and is well-suited for lake
culture, the Department of Fisheries periodically stocks lakes under its con-
trol with Indian major carps such as catla (Catla catla), rohu (Labeo rohita)
and mrigal (Cirrhinus mrigala). An analysis of recruitment and retrieval data
for the proposed project lakes shows that the average carp stocking ratio over



the past five years ranged from 1,500 to 2,600 fry/fingerlings/ha/yr. 1/ How-
ever, the average retrieval rates of the stocked fish has never exceeded 6
percent per annum. In yield terms, carp production among the selected lakes
averaged only 115 kg/ha. The rate of production of miscellaneous fish during
the same period is not known since no records were kept.
3.09      The historically low catch rates from the proposed project lakes
are in part a function of depredation by predatory species which enter the
lakes during the flood season or are inadvertently stocked with the carp fry. 2/
3.10      The widespread infestation of aquatic weeds in the selected lakes
contributes to low retrieval rates. The growth of weeds has been stimulated
by the runoff of nitrogenous fertilizers used for terrestrial agriculture
in the periphery of the lake areas.  Surface weeds such as water hyacinth
(Eichornia spp.) as well as submerged weeds (particularly Hydrilla) have
been encountered, with extensive infestation occurring in Baluhar, Gobin-
dapur and Fetehpur lakes (Maps 13616, 13619 and 13617).
3.11      The harvesting of carp is presently on a catch sharing basis, with
60 percent of the catch sales proceeds going to the Department of Land Revenue
and 40 percent paid to lake fishermen. Harvesting is done throughout the year,
though the peak season is between November and March. For miscellaneous fish,
there are no catch sharing arrangements in effect. Fishermen must be licensed
by DOF, however, which charges a license fee of Tk 10-15 per annum.
3.12      Commonly-used fishing gear includes gill and seine nets as well
as cast nets operated from the shore or from dugout boats. Twin boat ring-
net traps are also used. Size/weight restrictions are presently enforced
with respect to catla and mrigal, which must weigh at least 1 kg before they
can be harvested.
3.13      Fish marketing is primarily in the hands of private traders who
frequent lakeside landing sites. Fishermen are often in debt to the
traders and are known to sell their catch at depressed prices when other
alternatives do not present themselves. The ability of the fishermen to
hold out for higher prices is limited because of the highly perishable
nature of fish and the absence of ice and insulated boxes. Thus, in 1978,
oxbow lake fishermen in Jessore District were reported to receive Tk 8.2/kg
for fresh carp at the lakeside, while the wholesale price in Jessore town
was Tk 12-15/kg. The lack of all-weather access roads and vehicles has
compounded marketing difficulties.
3.14      Ownership of the selected lakes is vested with the Ministry of Land
Revenue, which leases them to DOF on an annual basis. The short-term nature
of this system has not been conducive to investments in either rehabilitation
or improvement. Administration and development of the lakes is nominally the
responsibility of the Jessore District Fishery Officer, who is assisted by
several Thana Fishery Officers. However, due to the lack of finance, trans-
portation and various administrative constraints, the TFO's have been unable
1/   This is far below the number required for commercial cultivation.
2/   It appears also that there is a large resident population of predatory
fish which inhabit the proposed project lakes,



- 14 -
to undertake any systematic or scientifically-based program of lake development.
As a result, harvesting is typically haphazard, raising the possibility that
many fish are caught prematurely.
IV. THE PROJECT
Location and Climate
4.01      The project is located in Jessore District in the southwest quadrant
of Bangladesh. Jessore lies some 30 km from the Indian border in the delta
between the Hooghly and Padma Rivers. There are 37 large-sized oxbox lakes
(covering about 4,000 ha) and 50 smaller lakes scattered throughout the dis-
trict. Ten of the 87 lakes are administered and stocked by the Department of
Fisheries, with the remainder available for lease by private cooperatives
from the Department of Land Revenue.
4.02      A network of paved roads links Jessore with Dacca (150 km northeast)
and Khulna, the Division Headquarters, some 60 km south. Access to project
lakes is by dry season feeder roads and tracks, all of which become impass-
able during rainy periods.
4.03      The climate is humid tropical during the southwest monsoon (June-
October) and relatively mild during winter (December-February). The mean
monthly temperature range is 18 0-30 0C, with peak temperatures in the forties
in April. Warm weather and abundant sunlight provide a potential for crop
production as well as tropical fish culture. Rainfall is also plentiful,
about 1,500 mm yearly, most of which occurs between April and November. The
high annual rainfall assures that lakes have water even in the dry months
(December-March). During the annual flood season (July-September), overflow
from local rivers inundates surrounding areas with 2 to 3 m of water by
September, subsiding gradually in October and November.
Objectives
4.04      The proposed project represents the first systematic attempt to
develop underexploited oxbow lakes in Bangladesh. As a pioneer undertaking,
the project would provide for the introduction of new seed production and
lake management technologies which would have implications for inland fish-
eries production throughout the country. The project would include training
and technical assistance components to facilitate the transfer of these tech-
nologies to indigenous personnel.
4.05      Within the project area, specific objectives would be the following:
(i) substantially increase inland fisheries production by
developing six oxbow lakes and supporting hatchery
facilities;



- 15 -
(ii) improve the well-being of fishermen through increased income
and investments in access roads, water supply, telephone and
electricity;
(iii)  upgraie the professional competence of Bangladesh fishery
personnel by providing in-service training at the central
hatchery and at project lakes; and
(iv) provide a dependable source of good quality fry and fin-
gerlings for use by fish farmers in and around the project
area.
4.06      At full development, total annual carp production from the proposed
project lakes would be about 950 MT, representing a sevenfold increase above
current levels. On a per hectare basis, implementation of the project would
increase the present average yield of 130 kg/ha/year to about 900 kg/ha/year
within five years.
Main Investment Features
4.07      Oxbow Lake Development.  A cluster of six oxbow lakes would be
developed under the project (Table 4.1). The number of project lakes was
purposely kept small to avoid dilution of technical and management capability
among too many sites.
Table 4.1: PROPOSED OXBOW LAKES /a
Name                        Dry Season Area
ha
1.  Baluhar                          282.0
2.  Jaydia                           189.0
3.  Fetehpur                          47.0
4.  Kathgara                          71.0
5.  Gobindapur                       217.0
6.  Marjat                           253.0
Total                       1,059.0
/a The relative location of the proposed lakes is
shown in Map 13615.
4.08      A preliminary review indicates that, except for Kathgara, 1/ sedi-
mentation would not occupy more than 10% (on average) of present storage
capacity over the next 30 years. Assurances were obtained that DOF would
carry out detailed investigations of lake sedimentation and storage capacity 2/
1/   After 15 years, Kathgara would likely require further rehabilitation
(e.g., raising embankments and building control gates) to keep sedi-
ment below 20% of storage capacity.
2/   The investigations would be undertaken to refine the mission's estimates
of lake sedimentation and storage capacity, as shown in Annex 4.



- 16 -
and that the results of these investigations would be forwarded to IDA for
review and comment.
4.09      The civil works to be constructed at each lake include:  (i) em-
bankments; (ii) inlet/outlet works; (iii) lake fishery stations; and (iv) lake-
side hatchery facilities.
4.10      Earth embankments (totalling 55 km) would be constructed primarily
in lowlying lake peripheries to prevent fish from escaping during the flood
season. All embankments would have 0.6 M freeboard above the maximum 10-year
flood level, thus affording a secure impoundment for planned fish culture
operations. Assurances were obtained that GOB would adequately investigate
the 10-year flood levels at each lake for detailed design of embankments.
4.11      Inlet/outlet culverts would ensure a continued supply of water for
cultivated areas adjacent to the lakes. Culverts would be fitted with wire
screen to keep lake fish from escaping and to preclude the entry of predatory
fish.
4.12      The construction of lakeside fishery stations would provide needed
office space, laboratory space and living quarters for lake management per-
sonnel. Each station would be responsible for sampling water quality, super-
vising the periodic clearance of water hyacinth, providing technical assist-
ance to lake fishermen and monitoring landing and distribution activities.
4.13      In order to provide lakes with a capability to supply their own
fingerlings, the project would finance the construction of lakeside hatchery
facilities and dugout ponds.2 A typical lake hatchery would include a single-
room enclosure of about 60 M  to house hatching tanks, hatchling collection
boxes and other equipment necessary for induced breeding. In the hatchery
enclosure, a proper cement cistern would be constructed to hold hatchlings
for about three days prior to stocking in prepared nursery ponds.
4.14      Three types of dugout ponds would be constructed on the lakeshore
near the hatchery enclosure: Brood stock, nursery and rearing ponds. The
total pond area per lake would vary from 4 to 22 ha, depending on lake size
and seasonal stocking requirements.
4.15      Central Hatchery Complex.  In the initial phase of project imple-
mentation, fry for all six lakes would be produced at a Central Hatchery to
be located at Baluhar Lake. The Baluhar site was selected because of its
central location, available land and proximity to a main highway.
4.16      At full development, the Central Hatchery would be capable of pro-
ducing, mostly by induced breeding techniques, some 20 million carp fry per
annum. As lake management personnel gain experience and lake hatchery pro-
duction increases, fry from the central hatchery would be sold to fish



- 17 -
farmers outside the project area, where the demand for good quality fry
is increasing. 1/
4.17      Induced breeding efforts at all project hatcheries would focus
mainly on carp in view of their acceptance among Bangladeshis and the fact
that they are biologically well-suited for oxbow lake culture. Species to
be bred, reared and stocked would include the Indian major carps (catla,
rohu, mrigal), grass carp, silver carp and common carp.
4.18      The entire Central Hatchery complex would occupy approximately
44 ha (8 ha for structures and 36 ha for dugout ponds). Induced breeding
facilities would be analogous to those provided at the other project lakes,
though of larger scale. Dugout ponds would include 150 nursery ponds, 90
rearing ponds and 6 broodstock ponds (Map 13683).
4.19      Other facilities to be located at the central hatchery complex
would include: (i) an administration building; (ii) a trainee hostel;
(iii) staff and guest quarters; and (iv) a garage and workshop.
4.20      Infrastructure.  The project would provide financing for the
following infrastructure investments: (i) access roads; (ii) electrical
power for hatcheries and fishery stations; and (iii) telephone service.
4.21      The proposed project lakes are presently linked to all-weather main
highways by poor quality earthern access roads. The access roads are badly
rutted and become impassable even after brief showers. To provide fishermen
and surrounding farmers with assured access throughout the year, project roads
would be upgraded and realigned as necessary. 2/ The main access road to the
Central Hatchery at Baluhar (1 km) would have a 6 M carriageway, while se-
condary access roads (25 km) would have a 4 M carriageway. All roads would
be asphalt surfaced with a minimum embankment clearance (free-board) of 1 M
above the 10-year flood level. The main access road would cost about
Tk 870,000 per km. The estimated expenditure for secondary roads would be
on the order of Tk 630,000 per km, excluding land acquisition costs.
I/   About 60 km east of the project, an upcoming IDA drainage and flood
control project will, as a secondary effect, restrict the natural
entry of fry in two poldered sub-project areas totalling some 35,000 ha.
As a result, farmers will require a new source of fry/fingerlings, a
demand which the proposed Central Hatchery is well-suited to meet.   A
similar scheme to provide hatchery-produced fingerlings for poldered
irrigation areas is underway in connection with the IDA-financed
Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit No. 605-BD).
2/   District Council authorities, in consultation with the Roads and
Highways Department, would undertake upgrading of lake and hatchery
access roads.



- 18 -
4.22      Since electricity is essential for the operation of project hatch-
eries, an 11 Kv line system would be installed to transmit power from Kotch-
andpur Station (33/11 Kv) to the Central Hatchery Complex, about 2.5 km.  A
distribution system would extend electricity to other lake hatcheries (Map
13615). 1/
4.23      A telephone system would be provided to link the various lake
fishery stations. 2/  Two direct lines (Jessore to Baluhar and Jessore to
Marjat) would be installed on existing poles. New lines would be installed
connecting Baluhar with Jaydia and Fetehpur, and Marjat with Kathgara and
Gobindapur lakes.
Aquaculture Program
4.24      Complementary to the physical investments described in the previous
section, the project would include a comprehensive aquaculture program designed
to increase production efficiency at the selected lakes and hatchery sites.
4.25      At the lakes, the management program would be basically an exten-
sion of the polyculture system, using a combination of Indian major carps
(i.e., catla, rohu, mrigal); Chinese carps, i.e., silver carp (Hypophthal-
michthys molitrix), and grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella); and common carp.
The introduction of Chinese carps is imperative because the Indian major carps
presently stocked in the lakes do not utilize the full range of fish food and
weeds such as Hydrilla and duckweed (Lemna spp.). The existence of significant
quantities of unutilized fish food, primarily phytoplankton, gives the lake
waters a greenish appearance. Phytoplankton feeding silver carp would graze
down the unutilized phytoplankton, while weed eating grass carp would effec-
tively control the submerged Hydrilla, which is present in enormous quantities
in the project lakes.
4.26      Among the Indian major carp, catla and rohu would be stocked to
feed on surface and column food, while mrigal, which is a bottom dweller,
would graze on detritus. Stocking of European common carp is likewise recom-
mended since it is an omnivore which rakes up bottom mud, thus promoting the
circulation of nutrients from the soil to the water. In total, a six-species
combination of high yielding carp is recommended to achieve optimal production
from the project lakes.
4.27      Since several highly predatory species are presently established
in the lakes, 3/ appropriate biological control measures must be included
1/   Installation of the electrical system would be handled by the Power
Development Board (PDB).
2/   Telephone equipment would be installed by Bangladesh Telephone and
Telegraph (BTT).
3/   Such as Wallego attu, Chana murulius and Notopterus Chitala.



- 19 -
in the aquaculture program. In this regard, live bait angling and seine
netting (4-5" mesh) would be encouraged in the pre-monsoon season to reduce
the predatory fish population as much as possible before monsoon breeding
takes place. As an incentive, free licenses or rewards for certain species
would be offered.
4.28      The control of snails and other molluscs which also infest the
project lakes would be achieved by stocking black carp (Mylopharyngodon
picens) or catfish such as Pangasius spp. The rate of stocking of these
fish would depend on the actual assessment of the snail population.
4.29      The stocking density and ratio of the co-stocked species would
vary from year-to-year, depending on physio-chemical conditions, plankton
density and extent of aquatic weed infestation. An initial stocking rate
of 8,000 carp fingerlings/ha would be employed.
4.30      In the first and second years of the project, Indian major carp
fry/fingerlings would be purchased locally, with hatchery-bred supplies
becoming available by Year 3. It is expected that Chinese and common carp
fingerlings would likewise be available for stocking by Year 3 of the project.
Since Chinese carp are presently not available in Bangladesh, assurances were
obtained that GOB would by July 31, 1981, have imported approximately 10,000
grass carp fry and 10,000 silver carp fry. These fry would be temporarily
stocked at the Jessore District seed farm pending the availability of lakeside
rearing ponds.
4.31      Fertilization of project lakes would be deferred until after grass
carp fingerlings are stocked to control submerged weed. 1/ Once weed grazing
has taken place, monthly applications of phosphate fertilizers would be in-
cluded in the aquaculture program. Fertilizer dosage would be a function of
physio-chemical conditions, nutrient levels and the growth rate of the co-
stocked carp species.
4.32      Supplementary feeding is not contemplated at present, though this
option could be utilized in subsequent years, again depending on the degree
of submerged weed infestation and carp growth rates.
4.33      Harvesting would be carried out using conventional techniques,
such as gill nets. Seine nets may also be used. Harvesting operations would
be spread over about 240 days a year, with a slack period during the monsoon
months.
4.34      Aside from the various lake fish farming activities described above,
an integral part of the aquaculture program concerns the induced breeding and
rearing of carp fry and fingerlings. Initially, all breeding activities would
take place at the Central Hatchery at Baluhar Lake, which would have a produc-
tion capacity of 20 million fry per year. Subsequently, hatchery, nursery and
1/   Until the grass carp are available, locally-procured Puntius gonionotus
could be stocked at the rate of 100/ha/yr for interim control of sub-
merged weeds.



- 20 -
rearing facilities would be constructed at each lake so that each of the pro-
ject lakes would eventually become a self-sufficient induced breeding unit and
the Central Hatchery would supply its seed for stocking water bodies outside
Xic project area.
4.35      Key phases of the induced breeding/rearing cycle may be summarized
as follows:
-    production and selection of broodstock;
-    induced breeding (hypophysation);
-    collection and care of eggs;
-    hatching techniques;
-    care and collection of hatchlings;
-    nursery pond management;
-    rearing pond management; and
-    lake stocking procedures.
4.36      Broodstock production would be undertaken in newly constructed
broodstock ponds of 0.4 ha each. These ponds would be fertilized with
manure and chemical fertilizers and provided with supplementary food such
as rice bran or oil cake. Selection of broodstock would be done after
approximately two years, at which time the fish would have reached an
average weight of 2-3 kg.
4.37      Induced breeding operations would be undertaken at the advent
of the monsoon season when natural breeding normally takes place. Since
common carp breed naturally in confined waters, 1/ induced breeding would
be required only for Chinese and Indian major carps. For these species,
breeding activity is induced by the administration of pituitary gland
extract taken from mature carps. The procedure for obtaining and storing
pituitary hormones is relatively simple and refrigerated pituitary "banks"
would be established to guarantee an ample supply for breeding purposes.
4.38      Egg collection takes place from four to seven hours after the ad-
ministration of the pituitary extract. Normally, the developing eggs hatch
some twelve to fifteen hours after fertilization. Hatchlings are kept in a
special cement cistern for about three days until they a e ready for stocking
in prepared nursery ponds. One cistern of less than 2 m will accommodate
nearly one million hatchlings for the three day holding period.
1/   Common carp will naturally breed in a pond habitat several times a
year. Best results are obtained towards the end of winter (February-
March) and during monsoon seasons.



- 21 -
4.39      Important nursery pond management procedures would include pond pre-
paration, weed clearance, eradification of unwanted fish and aquatic insects
and, fertilization and supplementary feeding. The latter procedure would be
extremely important, since the spawn are voracious feeders capable of exhaust-
ing the natural pond food supply (i.e., plankton) in only 4-5 days. Under
the project, harvesting of fry would normally take place after several weeks
when average size reaches 25-30 mm. A nursery pond survival rate of 75% is
envisioned. During each breeding season, two to three crops of hatchlings
would be raised in nursery ponds.
4.40      The basic procedures for rearing pond management are analogous to
those described above. As before, consideration must be given to weed control,
fertilization, supplementary feeding and so on. The stocking rate of 25-30 mm
fry would be about 0.3 million/ha. With the provision of supplementary feed
(oil cake plus rice bran) on a daily basis, the fry will attain fingerling
size (120-150 mm) at the end of three or four months. An average survival
rate of 75% is assumed for fry to fingerling rearing.
4.41      Initially, all nursery and rearing pond operations would be under-
taken at the Central Hatchery. These operations would be gradually shifted
to the project lakes as lakeside hatchery facilities and pond complexes are
constructed.
4.42      Once rearing is complete, lake stocking takes place.  Using a stock-
ing rate of 8,000 fingerlings/ha, the fingerling requirement for the combined
project lake area of 1,059 ha would be approximately 8.5 million per annum.
Excess fry/fingerling production would be sold to local fish farmers (para
4.16) who face a shortage of high quality carp seed. It is expected that
most of these transactions would be for the sale of fry, with the purchasers
undertaking fry to fingerling rearing in their own impoundments.
Cost Estimates
4.43      The total project cost including taxes and duties (US$0.6 million
equivalent) is estimated at US$7.5 M (Tk 111.9 M equivalent), of which US$3.0
million or about 37% would be foreign exchange (Table 4.2). Estimates are
based on May 1978 prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at
20% since detailed design work is yet to be completed. Annual expected price
increase rates used in estimating the total costs of imported items were 7.5%
in 1979 and 8% in 1980-85.  For domestically produced items, a 10.0% price
increase rate was used. Costs of civil works, including embankments, build-
ings, dugout ponds and infrastructure are based on recent costs in Bangladesh
for similar works. The cost estimates for equipment and vehicles are based on
unit prices in recent contract awards and on international prices. Detailed
equipment requirements and cost estimates are presented in Annexes 5 and 6,
respectively.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: COST ESTIMATES
Tk '000                        US$ '000           % of
Local   Foreign   Total        Local Foreign   Total  Total
Land Acquisition      3,308.2      -       3,308.2      220.5       -    220.5       3
Lake Improvement      2,263.8    352.3   2,616.1        150.9    23.5   174.4        2
Hatchery Facilities  4,847.5  3,134.5   7,982.0         323.2   209.0   532.2        7
Dugout Ponds          3,064.7      -       3,064.7      204.3      -     204.3       3
Equipment &
Vehicles            1,987.0  7,019.0   9,006.0        132.5   467.9   600.4        8
Infrastructure       18,823.7  9,107.3  27,931.0   1,254.9   607.2 1,862.1          25
Subtotal        34,294.9 19,613.1  53,908.0   2,286.3 1,307.5 3,593.8         48
Engineering &
Admin. (15%)        3,795.0  3,795.0   7,590.0        253.0   253.0   506.0        7
Technical
Assistance             -    10,818.0  10,818.0          -     721.2   721.2       10
Training                 786.0    225.0   1,011.0        52.4    15.0    67.4        1
Incremental
Operating Costs    5,949.5        -      5,949.5      396.6     -      396.6       5
Base Cost Estimate  44,825.4 34,451.1  79,276.5   2,988.3 2,296.7 5,285.0           71
Physical Contin-
gencies (20%)/a    7,618.0  4,681.6  12,299.6         507.9   312.1   820.0       11
Price Contingencies 13,726.3  6,571.5  2,0297.8         915.1   438.1 1,353.2       18
Total Estimate                                                                /
Project Cost       66,169.7 45,704.2 111,873.91b 4,411.3 3,046.9 7,458.2      100
/a   Excluding technical assistance, training and incremental operating costs.
/b   Includes US$0.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 23 -
Financing
4.44      The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 M (covering about 90% of the
total project costs, excluding duties and taxes) would finance 100% of for-
eign exchange costs and about 67% of local costs. IDA financing of 90% of
the project cost is recommended in view of DOF's limited financial resources
and heavy commitments elsewhere in the fisheries sector. In addition, pro-
vision of 90% IDA financing would enable DOF staff to concentrate fully on
project execution and would constitute an assured financial base for the
speedy introduction of new carp production and breeding technologies. GOB
would finance the balance of the project cost, US$1.5 M (TK 22.5 M equivalent,
including duties and taxes). To ensure the timely provision of project funds
and hiring of needed extra project staff, a condition of credit effectiveness
would be approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Executive Committee of
the National Economic Council.
Procurement
4.45      Overall responsibility for procurement would be vested in DOF.
Project civil works include embankments, hatchery facilities, dugout ponds,
offices, living quarters, and supporting infrastructure such as access roads,
water supply, electrification and telephone connections. Civil works con-
tracts (US$2.7 M) would be located at the six selected lake sites with con-
struction spread out over three years. Such contracts would not be suitable
for international competitive bidding and would be let through local competi-
tive bidding, using established GOB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Imported
construction materials (US$0.8 M), such as cement and steel bars, would be
provided by the selected contractors, as individual requirements would be too
small to justify separate tenders under the project.
4.46      Equipment, vehicles and spare parts (US$0.7 M) would be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference limited to 15%
of cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$20,000 for each contract, which are either
urgently needed or are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal
Government procedures, on the basis of quotations received from three or more
suppliers.
4.47      Documents for all contracts, whether for civil works, materials,
equipment or vehicles estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be sent
to IDA for review before bids were invited and later before award. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with
normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory. A summary of the bid
evaluation would be sent to IDA with all contracts for which disbursement is
sought. The format would be agreed at negotiations.
1/   An internal GOB document which must be approved prior to the release of
funds and authorization to hire new staff.



- 24 -
Disbursements
4.48      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:
(a)  80% of civil works expenditures;
(b)  80% of expenditures for locally procured construction
materials, equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
(c)  100% of cif expenditures for directly imported con-
struction materials, equipment, vehicles and spare
parts;
(d)  100% of total expenditures for consultants' services and
overseas training; and
(e)  80% of administrative expenditures of the Project
Implementation Unit.
4.49      Disbursements for expenditures (a) through (d) above would be on
the basis of full documentation. In the case of expenditures incurred by the
PIU, item (e) above, disbursements would be against certificates of expendi-
ture submitted by DOF, the documentation for which will not be submitted for
reviewing but will be retained by the Borrower and will be available for
inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision missions. The
proposed credit allocation and the estimated schedule of disbursements are
shown in Annex 7. It is estimated that the credit would be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1984.
Accounts and Audits
4.50      Assurances were obtained that:
(a)  separate accounts would be kept for the project by DOF;
(b)  these accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA;
(c)  a separate annual audit would be undertaken with respect
to Project Implementation Unit expenditures; and
(d)  GOB would send IDA copies of the audit reports annually
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
4.51      Implementation of the project would have a positive effect on the
environment. Among the selected lake sites, systematic management efforts
would reduce the breeding of mosquitoes and snails, which are known hosts for
transmitting tropical diseases such as malaria, schistosomiasis and filaria-
sis. All of these diseases are prevalent in the project area. Proposed water



- 25 -
control works such as embankments and screened inlet/outlet gates would pro-
vide fishermen as well as neighboring rice farmers with the means to better
manage seasonal flood waters. It is also expected that proposed infrastructure
investments, particularly all-weather access roads and electrification, would
have a noteworthy impact on the quality of life in the rural villages surround-
ing the project area.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Department of Fisheries
5.01      Overall responsibility for execution of the project would rest with
DOF. 1/ Specific responsibilities of DOF would include surveys, planning,
designs, procurement and implementation of all project works. To the extent
necessary, DOF headquarters personnel would be made available to provide
administrative and technical support for project activities. At the field
level, Divisional, District and Thana Fisheries Officers would liaise with
project staff and provide assistance with respect to carp marketing and fry/
fingerling sales to neighboring fish farmers. Headquarters training staff
would cooperate with project staff in the design and implementation of in-
service training activities to be conducted at the Central Hatchery and lake
sites (para 5.09).
Project Implementation Unit
5.02      Day-to-day management of the project complex and selected lakes
would be undertaken by an administratively self-contained Project Implemen-
tation Unit (PIU). Based at Baluhar lake (i.e., at the Central Hatchery),
the unit would be headed by a specially appointed Project Director to carry
out the following functions:
(a) Management of project funds and facilities;
(b) Preparation and implementation of annual work
programs (para 5.07), including fish farming
and breeding activities;
(c) Administration and supervision of all project-
financed procurement and construction; 2/
1/   DOF is presently managing the lakes in the project area and, in the
mission's view, would be well-suited to continue in this role. The Plan-
ning Commission also favors retaining DOF for project execution, there-
by strengthening the agency's capability to effectively manage inland
fishery development activities.
2/   In consultation, where necessary, with officials from appropriate GOB
agencies (e.g., Power Development Board, Roads and Highways Department,
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department, etc).



- 26 -
(d) Monitoring of the distribution of benefits among
project participants;
(e)  Recruitment of consultants and administration of
training activities;
(f) Preparation of quarterly progress reports and reports
from the project consultants for submission to IDA.
5.03      With respect to function (d) above, the PIU would include personnel
to continually monitor catch sharing and marketing arrangements with a view
to ensuring that lake fishermen receive an equitable share of project revenues.
5.04      Detailed staffing arrangements for the PIU were agreed at nego-
tiations. Establishment of the PIU including, inter alia, the selection
of a Project Advisor/Aquaculture Specialist and an Engineer, would be a
condition of effectiveness.
Lake Tenure
5.05      An essential element of project organization and management efforts
would be the securing by DOF of long-term leases for all project lakes and
lake depot sites. Title to all of the proposed lakes is presently held by
the Department of Land Revenue, which rents the lakes to DOF on an annual
basis. As discussed earlier (para 3.14), the short-term nature of annual
lease-auction arrangements has not been conducive to investments in either
rehabilitation or improvement. To eliminate the uncertainties associated
with the annual lease-auction system, assurances have been obtained that the
assignment of project lakes to DOF would endure throughout the economic life
of investments to be made under the project. 1/
Cooperation with Lake Fishermen
5.06      A key feature of project organization would be the clear delinea-
tion of carp production and marketing responsibilities between the PIU and
project fishermen. 2/ PIU staff would have overall responsibility for (a) in-
vestment in physical facilities, (b) seed production, (c) lake management 3/,
and (d) stocking operations. In addition, the PIU would market project fish
production jointly with the fishermen and provide vehicles and staff to assist
in marketing of the carp catch. The financial cost of these activities would
be met through the 60/40 catch sharing formula discussed in para 7.03.  The
main responsibility of participating fishermen would be the daily harvesting
1/   Estimated to be 30 years.
2/   Presently, there are some 600 families licensed to fish in the project
area. As discussed in para 7.07, the number of participating families
will be enlarged as lake production increases. For all lakes, a
licensing system will remain in effect as a management tool for the
proper regulation of fishing effort.
3/   Including O&M of all lake facilities.



- 27 -
and landing of carp at the depots which would be constructed at each of the
proposed lakes. Fishermen would also participate in marketing, together with
PIU representatives. 1/
Annual Work Prog ams
5.07      Before each construction season, DOF would prepare annual programs
detailing activities and works to be undertaken during the forthcoming year.
Such programs would include appropriate maps, charts and drawings, staffing
and material requirements as well as cost estimates. The Project Director
would be responsible for collating and consolidating these programs for sub-
mission to IDA. Assurances were obtained that by September 30 of each year,
IDA would receive, for review and comments, work programs and procurement
schedules for the forthcoming construction year (November 1 to October 31).
Maintenance
5.08      The economic and financial viability of the proposed project is
directly linked to the implementation of a satisfactory maintenance program.
DOF would be responsible for the O&M of all project works except access roads
and telephone and power facilities. Maintenance of the lake and hatchery
access roads would be undertaken by the District Council, with assistance, if
necessary, from the Roads and Highways Department. The maintenance of tele-
phone lines and equipment would be the responsibility of Bangladesh Telegraph
and Telephone (BTT). For power lines, installation and maintenance would be
handled by the Power Development Board (PDB).   Assurances were obtained that
project facilities would be maintained in accordance with sound engineering
and management practices.
Technical Assistance
5.09      Technical assistance would include consultancy services for fish
farming and marketing and engineering and hatchery management. Within the
latter category, a specialist advisor would be provided for induced breeding
operations. A total of 130 months of technical assistance 2/ is included
(Annex 8), at an average cost, including overhead, of Tk 83,000 (US$5,500) per
month. 3/ Fishery advisors would be based at the Central Hatchery complex
where they would work closely with members of the PIU.
5.10      Short-term consultants would be employed, as necessary, for assist-
ance in engineering design work and in establishing appropriate procedures
and organizational arrangements for proper operation and maintenance of the
project facilities. Assurances were obtained that DOF would employ
1/   Marketing arrangements are discussed in paras 6.03-6.04.
2/   Including 18 months for short-term consultants.
3/   Fishery consultants could likely be drawn from neighboring countries
where considerable fish farming expertise exists.



- 28 -
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Borrower and IDA. The consultants
would include, inter alia, a Project Advisor/Aquaculture Specialist and an
Engineer to be in post not later than December 31, 1979.
TrJining
5.11      The project would provide facilities for in-service training at the
Central Hatchery in lake management, induced breeding techniques, composite
fish culture, aquatic weed control, nursery rearing and brood stock management.
Fishery advisors would assist the PIU in training efforts. Trainees would
include DOF personnel as well as small-scale fish-farmers who could benefit
from practical instruction in improved agricultural techniques. Once the
project is fully operational, the scope of training activities could be ex-
panded to include the participation of fish farmers from outlying districts,
thus promoting the diffusion of efficient fish farming methods throughout
the country. To familiarize core staff with modern fish farming and hatchery
management techniques, short-term study tours would be organized for about
six staff members to neighboring countries such as India or Thailand. Assur-
ances were obtained that the program for study tours and the qualifications
of the proposed candidates would be satifactory to IDA. In this regard, the
Borrower agreed to furnish to IDA for approval (i) details of proposed over-
seas training programs by December 31, 1979 and (ii) details of proposed in-
country training programs by December 31, 1981.
Progress Reports
5.12      Project progress would be recorded by means of quarterly and annual
progress reports prepared by DOF staff. The reports would include all relevant
data on physical and financial progress of the project together with reasons
for deviations, if any, from the targets set under annual work programs (para
5.07). Following review and consolidation by the Project Director, quarterly
and annual reports would be promptly sent to IDA.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13      The main objectives of the monitoring and evaluation studies would
be to estimate the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as
well as the socio-economic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. In
addition, the studies would explore the feasibility of alternative organiza-
tional arrangements, including fishery cooperatives, which could prove useful
in the long run management of the project lakes (i.e., following the successful
introduction of the aquacultural technologies discussed in paras 4.24-4.42).
The data for evaluation would be obtained through selected in-depth interviews
as well as through canvassing representative samples of project beneficiaries.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that DOF would complete (i) a
benchmark monitoring survey about two years prior to project completion and
(ii) two follow-up surveys about one year and four years, respectively, after
project completion. The surveys would include information on hatchery and
rearing operations, stocking rates and yields, catch sharing and marketing
arrangements, and employment and income distribution for the various classes
of project beneficiaries. The monitoring studies and surveys would be under-



- 29 -
taken by well qualified local consulting firms or research institutions
selected in consultation with IDA. Assurances were obtained that before
January 1, 1980, DOF would prepare and submit to IDA for review, a detailed
proposal for implementation of the project monitoring and evaluation program.
In addition, DOF would furnish to IDA for comments by December 31 of each
subsequent year the results of the monitoring program for the preceding
fiscal year. Project progress reports (para 5.12) and data from the moni-
toring and evaluation reports would form, in part, the basis for preparation
of the Project Completion Report by DOF.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
6.01      At full development in about 1984, annual production from the six
project lakes would amount to 953 MT of carp, 1/ valued at US$0.76 million.
Additional revenue amounting to US$0.05 million per annum would be realized
by the sale of fry from the Central Hatchery to fish farmers in surrounding
areas. The sale of Central Hatchery fry outside the project area would com-
mence in Year 5, following the achievement of self-sufficient fry production
at the project lakes.
Marketing
6.02      The market prospects for carp, the project's major product, are
excellent. Jessore District is currently a fish deficit area, as are parts
of Kushtia and Rajshahi to the north and Khulna to the south. Carp is a pre-
ferred table fish which is actively traded in rural and urban markets through-
out the country. At full development in 1984, annual incremental fish produc-
tion from the project would represent less than one percent of projected total
Bangladesh fish production and would pose no serious marketing problem.
6.03      A major thrust of the project would be to rationalize carp market-
ing practices. Toward this end, the project would include a lake access
road component as well as the provision of trucks with ice boxes. 2/ Both
features would facilitate the timely transfer of freshly caught carp to the
surrounding markets. Given the preference for fresh fish, coupled with the
relatively small average daily catch of 4.0 MT (based on 240 fishing days
per year), the project provides for insulated boxes rather than costly cold
storage facilities. To improve market information, telephone lines would be
installed linking the Central Hatchery with outside market centers such as
Jessore and Khulna (para 4.23).
1/   Of which 815 MT would be incremental production.
2/   The vehicles would be operated and maintained by DOF personnel.



- 30 -
6.04      Implementation of the project would effectively end the dependence
of lake fishermen on traders and middlemen offering depressed ex-lake carp
prices (para 6.05). Instead, fishermen would land their catch at DOF-operated
lake depots for weighing and transport to wholesale market sites.  ThroughoLt
the marketing process, representatives of the fishermen would be present to
verify catch sharing arrangements and sales revenue. 1/ The effectiveness
of marketing operations would be further ensured by the assignment of a
marketing specialist to the Central Hatchery staff. In addition, the project
would include technical assistance services to develop, implement and monitor
marketing arrangements (para 5.07).
Prices
6.05      Prices used for project financial analyses are based on average
wholesale market prices for Jessore and Khulna Districts in May 1978. 2/
Given the continued unmet demand for carp and carp seed in and around the
project area, and expected improvements in the quality of both products, the
use of these prices on a constant basis for project analysis is reasonable.
Prices used average Tk 12,000 (US$800) per MT for carp and Tk 31,200 (US$1,113)
per million fry. Improved access and the provision of vehicles are expected
to end the dependence of lake fishermen on traders and middlemen who have pur-
chased carp at depressed ex-lake prices ranging from Tk 4,500 to 8,500 (US$300
to 565) per MT.
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
7.01      The project's financial benefits would consist of (i) the incre-
mental carp catch resulting from project investments, (ii) the value of Central
Hatchery fry sales to neighboring fish farmers, and (iii) the increase in carp
prices received by project fishermen as a result of lower transport costs and
improved market access. At full development, proposed project investments are
expected to yield annual incremental landings of 815 MT of carp valued at Tk
10.5 million (US$0.7 million). As discussed in para 7.03, 60% of the proceeds
of carp sales would be retained by GOB.
7.02      The investment costs, operating results and cash flow relating to
development of the Central Hatchery Complex and the six selected lakes are
summarized in Annex 9. The estimated financial rate of return (ROR) on
hatchery development and lake improvement is 14%, based on the assumption
that present 60/40 catch sharing arrangement (para 7.03) would remain in
effect.
1/   The fishermen's 40% share of carp sales proceeds would be distributed
as soon as possible after the sale of the fish at the wholesale market.
2/   The financial cost associated with transporting the catch to wholesale
market centers is reflected in the cash flow estimates for O&M of
vehicles (Annex 9, Table 1).



- 31 -
Cost Recovery
7.03      A comparison of discounted incremental benefits with discounted
project cost estimates (Annex 9) supports the existing catch sharing arrange-
ment whereby 60% of carp sales revenue are allocated to DOF and the remain-
ing (40%) share is retained by the fishermen. If a greater share of carp
sales revenues are channeled to participating lake fishermen, the estimated
cost recovery index becomes less than one, indicating that the project cost
is not fully recovered. As a result, assurances were obtained that, except
as IDA shall otherwise agree, DOF would provide participating fishermen with
40% of carp sales revenue promptly after the sale of such fish.
7.04      The estimation of cost recovery indices was based on a full devel-
opment yield of 900 kg/ha and a 10% discount rate. Assurances were obtained
from GOB that if project revenues are higher than envisioned (or, project
costs are lower) the catch sharing formula would be amended so as to recover
as much of the project's investment costs as possible while maintaining suf-
ficient incentives for project fishermen. In this connection, the Project
Implementation Unit would be required to monitor catch sharing and marketing
arrangements at frequent intervals (para 5.03) to ensure an equitable alloca-
tion of project revenues. The appropriateness of pricing policies and cost
recovery norms would also be investigated on a periodic basis as part of
project evaluation and monitoring activities (paras 5.12-5.13).
Economic Analysis
7.05      The project's economic rate of return is estimated to be about
24% (Annex 10). Computation of the economic analysis is based on the follow-
ing assumptions:
(a) Benefits. The projected revenue included in the analysis
is based on the achievement of full development carp yields
of 900 kg/ha after five years. Revenues from outside sales
of Central Hatchery carp fry were assumed to commence in
Year 5, reaching Tk 0.6 million per annum by Year 7. Addi-
tional benefits which were not quantified include (i) the
incremental production of miscellaneous fish; (ii) trans-
port cost savings as a result of access road improvements;
(iii) social benefits related to the provision of electrical
power and telephone services; and (iv) the value of incremental
carp production realized by fish farmers outside the project
area utilizing high quality seed produced by the Central
Hatchery. 1/
1/   The annual sales of 20 million 4-5 cm carp fry (at full development)
would be sufficient to service 800 to 1,000 ha of pond area. At an
average yield of 1,000 kg/ha, total annual carp production would range
from 800-1,000 MT.  At an average ex-pond price of Tk 8/kg, gross
production benefits would be on the order of Tk 6.4 to 8.0 million
(US$0.4 to 0.5 million) per annum.



- 32 -
(b) Prices. For project carp production, which is exclusively
for domestic consumption, the estimation of annual revenue
is based on the prevailing wholesale market price of Tk 12/kg.
Non-tradeable services, including transportation and handling,
were adjusted by a factor of 0.75 to reflect the current
regime of import taxes and quotas. 1/
(c) Costs. The low opportunity cost of unskilled construction
labor is reflected by application of a 0.75 conversion factor
to the local cost element in the civil works. 2/ A proportional
share (60%) of training and technical assistance costs were
excluded from the economic analysis since they are oriented
toward general inland fisheries development and are not
directly required for implementation of the project. Simi-
larly,-only 50% of infrastructure costs, mostly for access
roads, were allocated to the project since a major share of
road usage will be by non project participants, particu-
larly small farmers, living in the vicinity of the proposed
lakes. All other investment costs (net of contingencies,
cost of land acquisition and taxes and duties) are included
in the economic analysis.
(d) Phasing of Costs and Benefits. Construction of lake facilities,
including hatcheries and supporting infrastructure, would be
phased over three years. The increased stocking and scientific
management of project lakes would, however, begin in the
second year and accordingly some benefits are expected before
construction is completed. Project facilities are assumed to
have a useful life of 25 years.
Project economic costs and benefits are summarized in Annex 10.
Sensitivity Tests
7.06      Sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable under a
variety of adverse assumptions about economic costs and benefits (Table 7.1).
1/   This is a standard conversion factor which translates domestic
prices to border prices for non-tradeables.
2/   To approximate the shadow wage rate.



- 33-
Table 7.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Assumption                                     Rate of Return (%)
(a)  Basic Case                                           23.9
(b)  All Costs Up 10%                                     20.8
(c)  All Costs Up 20%                                     18.3
(d)  All Benefits Down 10%                                20.5
(e)  All Benefits Down 20%                                17.2
(f)  Costs Up 20% and Benefits Down 20%                   12.7
(g)  Construction Conversion Factor = 1.0                 22.8
(h)  Construction Conversion Factor = 0.5                 25.0
(i)  Three Year Lag in Benefits                           12.9
(j)  Useful Project Life Reduced to 10 years              15.0
Project Beneficiaries
7.07      The direct project beneficiaries would be the 600 fishing families
presently living in the vicinity of the proposed lakes. 1/ At full develop-
ment, average family income from carp farming is expected to increase from the
present Tk 750 per annum to Tk 7,625 (US$508) per annum (Annex 9, Table 3).
Additional income would be realized through the sale of miscellaneous fish,
the proceeds from which would go entirely to fishermen (i.e., catch sharing
arrangements would apply only to carp production). Indirect beneficiaries of
the proposed project would include non-fishermen inhabitants of the project
area who would gain appreciably from access road improvements as well as rural
electrification (para 4.20). Outside the project area, the principal benefi-
ciaries would be fish farmers who would be offered an assured supply of high
quality carp fry produced by the Central Hatchery.
Employment Impact
7.08      Direct employment benefits attributable to the project would be
limited to families engaged in lake fishing activities. 2/ As project imple-
mentation proceeds and yields increase, it is envisioned that the number of
licensed fishing families can be considerably increased. Additional increases
would depend on catch/effort studies and financial considerations. Indirect
employment benefits are expected to extend to several thousand fish farmers
who would purchase carp seed from the Central Hatchery. With an assured
supply of seed, these farmers would be freed from the risks costs associated
with the collection of wild seed.
1/   These are landless families who earn their livelihood by fishing on
the project oxbow lakes. All of the families are licensed by DOF to
engage in lake fishing operations. As discussed in para 7.08, it is
envisioned that the number of licensed fishing families can be consid-
erably increased as project implementation proceeds. Assuming, for
example, that the number goes to 900, average family income would be
on the order of Tk 5,083 (US$339) per annum.
2/   At present, there are some 600 families licensed by DOF to fish in the
project lakes.



- 34 -
Project Risks
7.09      The major project risk concerns organizational weaknesses in the
Department of Fisheries and the capacity of DOF to implement the p <J
a long-term basis. To facilitate DOF's task, the project has been kept
simple organizationally and incorporates a fully staffed Project Implementa-
tion Unit to provide necessary support for DOF lake and hatchery management
personnel. Although the project provides for the introduction of new fish
production techniques, the principles of composite carp culture and breeding
are well established and appropriate training and technical assistance com-
ponents have been included to keep risks within acceptable limits. It is
expected that the provision of a Central Hatchery plus satellite (lake)
hatcheries will further reduce the risks associated with high quality carp
seed production. Once project facilities are completed, the adequacy of O&M
works will be critical to the continued successful functioning of the project.
With this in mind, DOF is preparing a detailed program for O&M of the project
facilities. Compliance with the program should minimize the problems related
to inadequate maintenance. As indicated in para 7.06, the project should
remain economically viable even if there were to be substantial delays in
implementation or reduction in project longevity due to inadequate maintenance.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a)  detailed investigations of lake sedimentation and storage
capacity would be completed by September 30, 1980 and the
results would be forwarded to IDA for review and comments
(para 4.08);
(b)  investigations would be undertaken to determine the 10-year
flood levels at each lake in connection with the detailed
design of embankments (para 4.10);
(c)  GOB would, by July 31, 1981, have imported approximately
10,000 grass carp fry and 10,000 silver carp fry for
initial stocking of project lakes (para 4.30);
(d)  (i) separate accounts would be kept for the project by DOF;
(ii) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA; (iii) a separate
annual audit would be undertaken with respect to Project
Implementation Unit expenditues; and (iv) GOB would
send IDA copies of the audit reports annually within six
months of the end of the fiscal year (para 4.50);
(e)  the assignment of project lakes to DOF would endure through-
out the economic life of investments to be made under the
project (para 5.05);



- 35 --
(f) by September 30 of each year, IDA would receive, for review
and comments, work programs and procurement schedules for
the forthcoming construction year (para 5.07);
(g) proj, t facilities would be maintained in accordance with
sound engineering and management practices (para 5.08);
(h) DOF would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Borrower and IDA; the consultants would include, inter
alia, a Project Advisor/Aquaculture Specialist and an Engineer
to be in post not later than December 31, 1979 (para 5.10);
(i) the program for study tours and the qualifications of the
proposed candidates would be satisfactory to IDA and the
Borrower would furnish to IDA for approval (i) details of
proposed overseas training programs by December 31, 1979
and (ii) details of proposed in-country training programs
by December 31, 1981 (para 5.11);
(j) DOF would undertake a monitoring program to assess the im-
pact of the project on the development of the project areas
and would complete (i) a benchmark survey about two years
prior to project completion and (ii) two follow-up surveys
about one year and four years, respectively, after project
completion (para 5.13);
(k) before January 1, 1980, DOF would prepare and submit to IDA
for review a detailed proposal for implementation of the
project monitoring program and would furnish to IDA for
comments by December 31 of each subsequent year the results
of the monitoring program for the preceding fiscal year
(para 5.13);
(1) except as IDA shall otherwise agree, DOF would provide par-
ticipating fishermen 40% of carp sales revenue promptly
after the sale of such fish (para 7.03); and
(m)  DOF would, in consultation with IDA, review the existing
catch sharing arrangements by December 31, 1982 and again
by December 31, 1984 with the objective of recovering as
much of the project's investment costs as possible while
maintaining sufficient incentives for project fishermen
(para 7.04).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) the Project Proforma had been approved by the Execu-
tive Committee of the National Economic Council
(para 4.44); and



- 36 -
(b) DOF had established a Project Implementation Unit
including,inter alia, the selection of a Project
Advisor/Aquaculture Specialist and an Engineer
(para 5.04).
8.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million on standard IDA terms. The
borrower would be the Government of Bangladesh.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Fish Production in Bangladesh
('000 mt)
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Inland            731        730        732        733        735
Marine             86         88         88         89         89
Total           817        818        820        822       824
Production of Inland and Marine Fresh Fish
by Main Varieties
('000 mt)
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Type of fish
Inland: (Total)
of which                     730        732        733        735
1.   Hilsa                   382        383        384       383
2.   Rohu & Other carp
family                86         86         87         86
3.   Boal, Pangas &
Ahir                   71        71         71         71
4.   Prawn (Chingri)          24         24         24         24
5.   Koi, Magur, Singhi       31         31         31         31
6.   Others                  136        137        136        140
Marine                        88         88         89         89
Total                   818       820        822        824
Source: DOF.



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Carp Production by Divisions
('000 MT)
1965                1970                 1975                  1976                 1977
Capture   Culture   Capture   Culture   Capture   Culture   Capture   Culture   Capture   Culture
1.  Rajshahi          5.44       1.36      6.30       4.20      6.40       6.40      5.28       7.92      5.64       8.46
2.  Khulna            9.12       2.28     10.50       3.50     11.90       5.10     11.44       6.16     11.28       7.52
3.  Dacca            17.36       4.34     18.38       6.12     20.79       8.91     20.02      10.78     19.74      13.16
4.  Chittagong       13.68       3.42     15.75       5.25     17.85       7.65     17.16       9.24     16.92      11.28   X
Col. Total       45.60      11.40     50.93      19.07     56.94      28.06     53.90      34.10     53.58      40.42
Annual Total          57.00                70.00                 85.00                88.00                94.00
Source: DOF.



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Export of Fish and Fish Products
(MT - '000 Taka)
1971/72            1972/73             1973/74            1974/75             1975/76
Quantity   Value  Quantity   Value  Quantity   Value  Quantity   Value  Quantity    Value
Fresh Fish                             -           -    1,920   11,177    4,677   23,356    1,406   10,711    1,250    17,852
Frozen Fish                          795      11,482       902   19,412    1,523   40,596    1,682   46,848    2,510    70,293
Frozen Shrimp                         65       1,180       317    7,677       253   11,123    1,217   34,089    1,786   109,331
Dried, Salted or Smoked Fish           -           -         3        18        -         -         2        49         4        186
Shark                                  -           -         -        -         -         -         2        54        24      1,249
Frozen Froglegs                       37         231       138    1,755       191    2,437        627    7,986        930    11,822
Fish Maws, etc.                        -           -         -         -       10        91         6       235        21      1,091
897     12,893      3,280  40,039    6,654   77,603    4,942   99,972    6,525   211,824
Source:  Export Promotion Bureau and DOF. 



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Fishing Craft and Fishermen (Inland and Marine)
Number of Fishing Craft
Fishing Craft
Used for                   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Inland                      70,000    71,000    71,500
(motorized)               (2,800)   (2,900)   (3,000)
Marine                        7,000     7,500      7,600
(motorized)               (  900)    ( 950)   (1,000)
Total                     77,000    78,500    79,100
Number of Fishermen
1961             1974/75             1975/76
Fishermen        (National Census)  (Estimate by DOF)  (Estimate by DOF)
Inland                 560,000            600,000             660,000
Marine                 175,000            200,000              220,000
Total             735,000            800,000             880,000
Source: DOF and National Census data.



-41 -                                                                                    ANNEX 3
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES
(AS OF 1 APRIL 1978)
IOIRECTOR OF FjS-1E -IE
Principal                 Project
Economist                                                          Scientific                Director
w   |  Bic  Sit                                                         Officer               (Acquaculture)
E       S                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   ~~~Asst Diector, _,           Dy. D-re0 > (Tech I
F,sh Culturist,        Deputy Director              Senior                    Senior                Dy. Director
Depuit IDiector         Project Manager                                                             Seniosor, Research          Scientific               Sctific              (Quality Control)
IDix.Ig~                                                                                          Oftfier                  Officer                  Officer                   Senior
_                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          ~         ~~Ch'ef Extension  _Tcnlgs    
*I                                                                                    ,             I                  I  I                           I                        I                       I     
Deputy Asst.                                                               Deputy As.
Director IDii 1,                                                              D    T,                                                                                               sheries             Technologist
Deputy Fish                                                                                                                                                                   TecholoistDeputy Fcsheries  FIc Iuri
Cilturist (D-),                                                               Bologist,                 Researchlgt,                                                                                   Ac       ltut,
tu"t                                                                R-.,ch                  ~~~~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sci-tific  Scientific  Fsh-erie         Doer
A-st Training            Project Offc |t   Steti-ticol Officer           Technical Officer            Officer,                  Officer,                 Officer               Technolofiut,           Techno-lgist,
Officer (Div ),                                                               Curator.               giometric-an            Store Officer,             Librarini                 (Oualitv
Farmi  Ma Officer                                                         Et-ension Officer                                     Llbrarian                                         Control).              Limnologist.
Lect ExtensionEvaWt,.n                                                                                                                                                           c        g               ExIe--
OfficerOffice,                                                                                                                                                                                        InsOfice
C As. Fish                                                                Administrati-e                                    Administratioo
Project Officer.           Asst Project          Research Officer        Officer, Accounts O.ficcr,                                                  Adtrinistratiu                                     Demonstrator
Ott. Fisheries                  i                                             Arist                                            Officer
Dec Officer
Asst. Research    I I
Officer,              Sub Assistant            Sub Assistant           7Technologst,
Captain,                 Engineer.               Engineer,             Tec          Al t  |
Engineer,                Foreman                  Foreman              IMicrbiologist),
i  {   l   l   { Master Fisherman   { |      l l                      l l       (Tech.l
r Tnac  Fisnhry
Cffitri, FihAildu-LbAst
| Curture Assr.                                                                                        per Culturet ll    i l    Ecaluafion      l         Rsersesarcnh
Unit Officer
Office                                                                     Officoe                  Offcen                   Office                   Offeic
Others                                                                [    Othe[s                    Others                   Others                  Others                   Others                   Oter -
| (Cerk Tvist Etc) || (ler, Tpist Et l   | Clek. Tpis, Ec )| |IClek, VP tS  lc.i| |IClrk.Tvpst, tc.  |   (Cerk Tvpst,Etc)                               Word(le SackVisf5Et ) 



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Estimated Lake Storage Capacities and Sedimentation
Sedimentat ion                           Baluhar      Jaydia      Fetehpur     Kathgara       Gobindapur      Marjat
Effective Catchment - ha3                 3,138        2,289          984        2,417          2,110          4,443
Annual Sediment Load - m                 15,690       11,445        4,920       12,085         10,550         22,215
AccumulatiNe Sediment in 30 years -
Mm                                 0.47         0.34         0.15         0.36           0.32           0.67
Lake Storage Capacities (Present)
Lake Surface Area - ha                      282          189           47           71            217            253
Average Depth - m                          2.75         3.05         1.50         1.20           2.10           2.10    ZI
Lake Storage Capacity Mm3                  7.75         6.20         0.71         0.85           4.56           5.31
Sediment in 30 years  %                       6            5           21           42              7             13
(in term of Lake Capacity)
Source: Mission estimates.
M:1
fr



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKgS FISHERY PROJECT
Summary of Project Main Features
GENERAL DATA                           BALUHAR      JAYDIA     FETEHPUR      KATHGARA      GOBINDAPUR       MARJAT      TOTAL
Annual Rainfall                mm       1,500       1,500        1,500         1,500          1,500         1,500         -
Annual Evaporation             mm2      1,100       1,100        1,100         1,100          1,l10         1,100         -
Effective Catchment Area       km          31          23           10            24             21            44         -
Lake Area (Dry Season)         ha         282         189           47            71            217                     1,060
CIVIL WORK
Lake Improvement
Embankment                   km         6.7         4.4          4.3           5.5           22.0          11.5        54.4
(wilth culverts & screens)     2
Wire Screening Structures    m2         330         360          390           780            138         1,278       3,276
Weed Clearing                ha          27          14           14            19             47            27         148
Infrastructure
Access Roads                 km         1.0         5.3          1,0           6.6            4,6           7,7        26,2
Electrification              km         1.6         6.5          9.7          13.0            9,7          13,0        53,5
Telephone Connection    Lump Sum
Tube Well & Water
Supply System              Unit         1          -           _             -               _
Hatchery Complexes
Main Facility                ha           8          -            _             _              _             _            8
Minor Facility               ha          -            1            1             1              1             1           5
13
Dug-Out Ponds
Nursery                      Unit       150          15            4            15             15            25         224
Rearing                      Unit        90          66           16            58             58           100         388
Blood Stock                  Unit         6           1            1             1              1             2          12
LAND ACQUISITION
Embankment                   ha         9.2         6.3          5.9           7.5           30.1          15.8        74.8
Hatchery                     ha         8.0         1.0          1.0           1.0            1.0           1.0        13.0
Road                         ha         2.0        10.0          2.0         12.0             8.5          14.0        48,5
Dug-Out Pond                 ha        36.0        14.6         4.2           13.0           13.0          22.6       103.4
2F39.7
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES (See Details in Table 2)
Main                         set          1           -           -             -              -                         -
Minor                        set         -            1            1             1              1             1         -
ax 
~- M~



- 44 
ANNEX 5
BANGIADESH                                     abNe 2
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Works & Unit Pricea in TK
BALUHA* LAKE (with Cantrial HatdlAf'__                            IAYDTA TAlAK
Unit         Quantity            Unit Price              Quantity        Unit Price 4/
W/TAD 2/                                 W/TAD
Item
Effective Catchment Area                            km2             31.4                                        22.9
Lake Area (Dry Season)                              ha             282.0                                       189.0
LAKE IMPROVEMENT
Embankments                                         km               6.7                                         4.4
Land Acquisition, 1.37 ha/km                        ha                9.2              13,500                    6.3           13,500
Earth Work                                          km               6.7               20,500                    4.4           20,500
Culverts with screen, 5 culv./km                    km                6.7               5,255                    4.4            5,255
Netting, 6-m depth                                   m              55.0                1,214                   60.0            1,214
Weed Clearing                                       ha               27.0               3,730                    14.0           3,730
HATCHERY COMPLEX
Site Acquisition                                    ha               8.0               15,000                    1.0           13,500
Land Filling & Leveling                             ha2              4.0               90,000                    0.5           10,000
Cement Cistern                                      ms             200.0                1,000                   65.0            1,000
Lab Facilities & Installation Lump Sum              L/S             L/S               633,600                   L/S           187,200
Buildings:                                            2
Office                                             mi2           300.0                1,200                  120.0            1,200
Guest Quarter                                     mi2            250.0                1,200                    -               -
Trainees Hostel                                    mi2           200.0                1,000                    -
Garage & Workshop                                  mi2           300.0                  900                   60.0              900
Stores Room                                        ms2            50.0                  900                   25.0              900
Staff Quarter                                     is2
5-Room  tm2                                                    150.0                1,200                    -              -
5-Room                                          m 2             50.0                1,000                   50.0           1,000
3-Room                                          m               45.0                1,000                   45.0           1,000
2-Room                                          is4.                                                                        ,0
Gate Keeper                                                     L/S                55,000                   L/S           30,000
Roads                                              m           1,000.0                  500                  100.0              300
Fence, Barbed Wires                               km              26.0                1,970                    9.0            1,970
Fence Posts                                       km               1.2               16,280                    0.4          16,280
Installation & Mobilization 30%
Miscellaneous 107.
DUG-OUT PONDS
Nursery                                           150-Units        200 m3                 6.0                15-200 m 3           6.0
i3                                           is36-50      .
Rearing                                            90-Units      1,500m                   4.2                66-1500  34.2
Broodstock                                          6-Units      8,400 m                  3.5                 1-8000 m            3.5
Land Acquisition                                   ha             36.0                  15,000                 14.6            13,500
INFRASTRUCTURE
Access Road Excluding Row                          km              1.0                872,500                   5.3          633,000
Electrification 3/                                                 L/S                668,389                   L/S        1,269,637
Telephone Connection                                               L/S                 35,680                   L/S            35,680
TAbe Well                                         Unit (60-m       1.0                247,000      (20-m depth) 1.0            82,000
depth)
Water Supply System with Elevated Tank            LIS               1.0               100,000                     -              -
Road Row 5/                                        ha              2.0                 15,000                   10.0          13,500
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES
Loading Truck, 6-Ton                              Unit             3                  136,000 1/                 -               -
Pickup Truck                                                       4                  112,500 1/                 1           112,500 1/
Jeep, 4-wheel Dr.                                                  2                  112,500 1/                 1           112,500 T/
Motor Cycle, 100 cc                                "               2                   11,200 1/                 -               -
Micro Bus                                                          2                  120,000 1/                 -
Speed Boat                                         "               2                   15,000 1/                 2             15,000 1/
Outboard Motor, 40 HP                                              3                   23,000 T/                  3            23,000 T/
Bicycle                                                            2                    1,300 1/                  1             1,300
Pump, 2 cusec                                                      2                   37,500 1/                 1            37,500 1/
Refrigerator                                                        2                  12,000 T/                  1            12,000 T/
Workshop Tools                                                     L/S                 15,000                   L/S             5,000
Spare Parts                                                        L/S                270,000                   L/S            90,000
Office Equipment                                   "               L/S                150,000                   L/S            15,000
Furniture                                                          L/S                425,000                   L/S            70,000
Medical Supplies                                                   L/S                 75,000                                    -
Hand Pumps                                                         L/S                                           3              1,500
1/  Withau t TAD
2/ W/TAD = With taxes and Duties
3/ For other lakes:
Fetehpur - TIK 1,789,446
Kathgara - TK 2,309,254
Gobindapur - TK 1,789,446
Marjat   - TK 2,309,254
4/  Same for other 4 lakes, except otherwise shown
5/ For other lakes:
Fetehpur - 2.0 ha
iathgara - 12.0 ha
Gobindapur - 8.5 ha
Marjat   - 14.0 ha



-45 -                     ANNEX 5
Table 3
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Hatchery, Nursery, Rearing and Brood Stock Facilities for
the Central Hatchery
Scope: To produce 20 million fry of carps yearly.
Features:                                            No.        Size
i.   Hatchery Building                          1      12.5 x 13 m
ii.   Cement Cistern
Larval holding tank                      6       1.5 x 1.2x 1 m
Holding and recovering tanks             3       2 x 2 x 1 m
Injected fish tanks                      6       3 x 1 x 0.7 m
iii.   Laboratory cum store                        1      3 x 5 m
iv.   Incubating Plastic Jar
Big jars                                 4       65 lit. each
Small jars                              40       6.35 lit. each
V.   Galvanized Steel Semi Circular
Open Conduit serving all jars
vi.   Proper Platform with circular
holes to fit the jars
vii.   Deep Tubewell for water supply which would include, besides
the complex requirements, about 72,000 lit of water for 15
hours per day for hatchery operation.
viii.   Dug-out Ponds                             No.        Size
Nursery                                150       20 x 10 x 1.5 m
Rearing                                 90       50 x 20 2 m
Brood Stock                              6       100 x 40 2.5 m
ix.   Buildings                                No.         Size2
Main Office                              1       300
Guest Quarter                            1       250
Training Hostel                          1       200
Garage & Workshop                        1       300
Store Room                               1        50
Staff Quarter
5-room                                 1       150
3-room                                 8        50
2-room                                 7        45



- 46 -                     ANNEX 5
Table 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
List of Laboratory Apparatus and Prices for
the Central Hatchery
Prices /a
Item                                                  (Tk)
I.   Incubating jars
a.   Big (4), @ Tk 1,600 each                          6,400
b.  Small (40), @ Tk 600 each                         24,000
II.   G-I semicircular open conduit serving
all the jars and also water pipes, etc.                2,800
III.   Wooden platform for the jars
a.   Big jar                                           2,000
b.   Small jars                                        1,000
IV.   Shower with fittings (21) @ Tk 600 each                12,600
V.  Aerators (10) @ Tk 1,500 each                           15,600
VI.   Live fish transport tanks on trailer
@ Tk 4,500 each                                  13,500
VII.   Air compressor for above with accessories (3)
@ Tk 7,500 each                                 22,500
VIII.   Balances (3)                                           24,000
Hanging pan balance (1)
Platform balance (1)
Chemical balance (1)
IX.   Water analysis kit with spare chemicals (2)
@ 7,500 each                                    15,000
X.   Electric fishing equipment with spares and
accessories (1)                                       32,100
XI.   Oxygen cylinders (4) @ 7,500 each                     30,000
XII.   Thermographs (2) @ 7,500 each                         15,000
XIII.   Portable turbidimeters (2) @ 7,500 each               15,000
XIV.   Portable conductivitimeter (2) @ 7,500 each           15,000
a/   Excluding taxes and duties.



-47 -                      ANNEX 5
Table 4
Page 2
Prices /a
Item                                                  (Tk)
XV.   Portable electric PH meter (2) @ 7,500 each            15,000
XIV.   Portable dissolved oxygen meter (2)
@ 22,500 each                                       45,000
XV.   Water sampler (2) @ 7,500 each                         15,000
XVI.   Benthos dredge (2) @ 3,750 each                         7,500
XVII.   Drying oven (1)                                         9,750
XVIII.   Stereoscopic microscope with accessories               15,000
XIX.   Homogenizers (2) @ 7,500 each                          15,000
XX.   Mosquito nets hapas, ice boxes
nets and other small items                         105,000
XXI.   Refrigerator (1)                                       15,000
XXII.   Cine Camera with accessories (1)                        6,000
XXIII.   Cine Projector with accessories (1)                     7,500
XXIV.   Tape recorder and tapes with accessories (1)            7,500
XXV.   Slide projector (1)                                     2,250
XXVI.   Cameras (2) @ 4,500 each                                9,000
XXVII.   Projection screens (2) @ 3,750 each                     7,500
TOTAL                                          527,900
a/   Excluding taxes and duties.



- 48 -                     ANNEX 5
Table 5
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Hatchery, Nursery, Rearing and Brood Stock Facilities
at Each of the Five Remaining Lakes
Scope: To produce an adequate number of 5-6 inch carp fingerlings
for stocking in each of the five remaining lakes.
Features:                                             No.        Size
i.   Hatchery Building                            1      5 x 13 m
ii.   Cement Cistern
Larval holding tank                       2       1.5 x 1.2x 1 m
Holding and recovering tanks              1       2 x 2 x 1 m
Injected fish tanks                       2       3 x 1 x 0.7 m
iii.   Laboratory cum store                         1      3 x 2 m
iv.   Incubating Plastic Jar
Small jars                               10       6.35 lit. each
v.   Galvanized Steel Semi Circular
Open Conduit serving all jars
vi.   Proper Platform with circular holes to fit the jars
vii.   Shallow Tubewell for water supply which would include, 30,000
lit of water for 15 hours per day for hatchery operation
viii.   Dug-out Ponds
Size                 Nursery           Rearing          Brood Stock
No. Required   20 x 10 x 1.5 m   50 x 20 x 2 m   100 x 40 x 2.5 m
Jaydia                  15               66                  1
Fetehpur                 4               16                  1
Kathgara                15               58                  1
Gobindapur              15               58                  1
Marjat                  25              100                  2
ix.   Buildings                                   No.        Size i
Office                                      T12
Garage & Workshop                                         60
Store Room                                   1            25
Staff Quarter
3-room                                    1             50
2-room                                    1            45



- 49 -                    ANNEX 5
Table 6
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
List of Laboratory Apparatus and Prices for
Each of thee Remaining Lake HatchePies
Prices /a
Item                                                 (Tk)
I.   Incubating jars
Small (40), @ Tk 600 each                         6,000
II.   G-I semicircular open conduit serving
all the jars and also water pipes                        800
III.   Wooden platform for the jars                             350
IV.   Shower with fittings (7) @ Tk 600 each                 4,200
V.   Aerators (2) @ Tk 1,500 each                           3,000
VI.   Balances (3)                                          24,000
Hanging pan balance (1)
Platform balance (1)
Chemical balance (1)
VII.   Water analysis kit with spare chemicals
@ 7,500 each                                     7,500
VIII.   Oxygen cylinders (1) @ 7,500 each                      7,500
IX.   Homogenizers (1) @ 7,500 each                          7,500
X.   Refrigerator (1)                                      15,500
XI.   Mosquito net hapas, ice box
Nets and other small items                         80,000
TOTAL                                          155,850
TOTAL for five lake hatcheries                 779,250
/a   Excluding taxes and duties.



BANGLADFESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Physical Investment Costs Net of Duties and Taxes
(Taka '000)
Sub-       Central
Baluhar     Jaydia      Fetehpur       Kathgara      Gobindapur      Marjad      Total      Hatchery    Total
Land                   480.0       328.4        166.8         322.5          661.5          591.0      2550.2       758.0      3308.2
Lake Improvement       322.0       221.6        223.5         336.5           748.5         598.0      2450.1         -        2450.1
Hatchery               621.0       621.0        621.0         621.0          621.0          621.0      3726.0      3152.0      6878.0
Dug-out Ponds          731.0       462.0        134.7         413.0          413.0          719.0      2872.7       192.0      3064.7
Equipment              497.0       497.0        497.0         497.0          497.0          497.0      2982.0      1709.0      4691.0
Sub-total           2651.0      2130.0       1643.0        2190.0         2941.0        3026.0    14581.0       5811.0    20392.0
Infrastructure        1168.0      4231.0       2095.0        5851.0         4238.0        6505.0    24088.0         439.0    24527.0
Total               3819.0      6361.0       3738.0        8041.0         7179.0        9531.0    38669.0       6250.0    44919.0
Engineering (15%)      573.0       954.0        561.0        1206.0         1076.0        1430.0      5800.4        937.0      6737.9
Total Base Costs      4392.0      7315.0       4299.0        9247.0         8255.0       10961.0    44469,4        7187.0    51656.9
H M
(D>4
I- 0



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Physical Investment Costs Including Duties and Taxes
(Taka '000)
Sub-       Central
Baluhar   Jaydia    Fetehpur   Kathgara Gobltdapur  Marjad          Total      Hatchery   Total
Land                                   480.0    328.4        166.8       322.5       661.5    591.0       2550.2       758.0    3308.2
Lake Improvement                       340.0    238.6        241.5       370.5       769.5    656.0       2616.1          -      2616.1
Hatchery Facilities                    732.0    732.0        732.0       732.0       732.0    732.0       4392.0      3590.0    7982.0
Dug-Out Ponds                          731.0    462.0        134.7       413.0       413.0    719.0       2872.7       192.0    3064.7
Equipment and Vehicles                 959.0    959.0        959.0       959.0       959.0    959.0       5754.0      3252.0    9006.0
Sub-total                         3242.0   2720.0       2234.0      2797.0      3535.0   3657.0    18185.0        7792.0   25977.0
Infrastructure                        1418.0   4742.0       2540.0      6605.0      4819.0   7301.0    27425.0         506.0   27931.0
Total                             4660.0   7462.0       4774.0      9402.0      8354.0  10958.0    45610.0        8298.0   53908.0
Engineering (15%)                      627.0   1070.0        691.1      1361.9      1153.9   1555.1       6459.0      1131.0   7590.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      5287.0   8532.0       5465.1    10763.9       9507.9  12513.1    52069.0        9429.0   61498.0
Physical Contingencies (20%)          1057.4   1706.4       1093.0      2152.8      1901.6   2502.6    10413.8        1885.8   12299.6
Price Contingencies                   1745.0   2816.0       1803.8      3552.7      3137.8   4130.0    17185.3        3112.5   20297.8
Total Including Contingencies         8089.4  13054.4       8361.9    16469.4    14547.3  19145.7    79668.1    14427.3   94095.4



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Annual Establishment Budget
(Taka)
GRAND TOTAL
Monthly        Total                   Total                     Annual Salary
Salary      Per Month                Per Annum    Allowances   & Allowances
Central Hatchery
1 Project Director                   1350          1350
2  Fishery Specialist                1100          2200
1  Aquatic Weed Specialist            805           805
1  Fishery Statistician               805           805
1 Marketing/Coop Expert               805           805
2 Accountants                         700          1400
1  Dispensary Officer                 700           700
2 Mechanic/Electricians               550          1100
2  Guards                             400           800
6  Drivers                            550          3300
2  Secretaries                        490           980
2  Clerk Typists                      500          l00O0
1  Storekeeper                        325           325
2  Cooks                              475           950
1 Messenger                           275           275
2  Gardeners                          275           550
2  Sweepers                           200           400
3il7                                               17745 x 12 mos  =       212940   +   23460   =       236,400
Lake Personnel
(Six Lakes)
6  Station Chief                     1000          6000
6 Fishery Specialist                  900          5400
24  Field Assistants                   650         15600                                                                m M
6 Drivers                             550          3300
6 Messengers                          275          1650
24  Watchmen                           275          6600
72                                                38550 x  12 mos  =       462600   +  51000    =       513,600
750,13  T
103 TOTAL



- 53 -                     ANNEX 7
Table 1
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount Allocated       Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
1.   Civil works, including
construction materials              3.9 M
(a)  civil works                                             80%
(b) construction materials
procured through local
shopping                                               80%
(c) construction materials
directly imported                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(d) construction materials
locally manufactured and
procured through inter-                                 100% of local
national competitive                                    expenditures
bidding                                                 (ex-factory)
2.   Equipment, vehicles and spare
parts                                 0.9
(a)  directly imported                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manufactured
and procured through                                  100% of local
international compet-                                 expenditures
itive bidding                                          (ex-factory)
(c)  other local procurement                                 80%
3.   Technical assistance and
training                              0.5                   100%
4.   Administrative expenditures
of the Project Implementation
Unit                                  0.4                    80%
5.   Unallocated                            0.3
Total                       6.0 M



- 54 -                          ANNEX 7
Table 2
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                         (US$ Million)
FY 1980
1st  a/
2nd                                          -
3rd                                        0.1
4th                                        0.4
FY 1981
Ist                                        0.7
2nd                                        1.0
3rd                                        1.4
4th                                        1.8
FY 1982
lst                                        2.2
2nd                                        2.7
3rd                                        3.3
4th                                        3.8
FY 1983
1st                                        4.3
2nd                                        4.7
3rd                                        5.0
4th                                        5.3
FY 1984
1st                                        5.5
2nd                                        5.7
3rd                                        5.9
4th  b/                                    6.0
a/ Estimated Date of Effectiveness; September 1, 1979
b/  Estimated Closing Date:             June 30Q  1984



_55 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Consultant    Monthly    Total
No.                                    Requirement   Salary       Expenditure
(Months)    (TK'OO0)    (TKR000)
1    Project Advisor                        48          45.0        2,160
1    Engineer                               24          40.0          960
1    Hatchery Management/Induced
Breeding Expert                       24           35.0         840
1    Marketing/Cooperatives Expert          12          35.0          420
1    Fisheries Statistician                  4          30.0          120
Sub-total                         112                      4,500
Unallocated b/                        18           75.0       1,350
Total                             130                      5,850
a/ Excluding overhead
b/ Short-term consultants
Position Description
Project Advisor            -  The consultant will have substantial experience
in the field of fisheries management and will
be particularly conversant in inland fisheries,
carp culture, seed production and teaching and
extension.
Engineer                   - With managerial experience in the problems of
rural engineering, including building construction,
the design of embankments and water control works
and facilities maintenance.



- 56 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 2
Hatchery Management/
Induced Breeding Expert  -  Experienced in hatchery operations and management,
with expertise in the breeding of Indian and
Chinese carps and the maintenance of pituitary
gland banks. The consultant should have experience
in training and extension work.
Marketing /tooperatives
Expert                    -  An economist/management expert with substantial
experience in all phases of fish distribution
and marketing.  The consultant will be well-versed
in cooperative development and socio-economic
aspects of catch sharing arrangements.
Fisheries Statistician    -  A biologist/statistician with wide experience in
fish population dynamics and collection, inter-
pretation and dissemination of catch/effort data
and cost and revenue information.



57                                                        ANNEX 9
Table 1
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJZ T
Cash Flaw Prolections
(Taka 1000)
----------------------------- Years --------------------------------
1          2           3          4          5           6          7-25
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales of Carp a/                     (1)    1652.4      3812.4      6354.0    9531.6    11437.2    11437.2    11437.2
Central Hatchery Fry Sales                             -           -          -          -        156.0       312.0       624.0
Subtotal                                          1652.4      3812.4      6354.0    9531.6    11593.2    11749.2    12061.2
less Fishermen's 40% Catch Share                   661.0      1525.0      2541.6    3812.6       4637.3     4699.7      4824.5
Total Cash Inflow                          (2)     991.4      2287.4      3812.4    5719.0       6955.9      7049.5      7236.7
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages and Allowances b/
(i)   Central Hatchery                              65.0       111.6       159.4      159.4
(ii)  Project Lakes                                152.7       229.1       305.4      305.4
Subtotal                                           217.7       340.7       464.8      464.8       464.8       464.8       4
Rent  c|                                             87.7       87.7        87.7       87.7
Fertilizer  d/                                         -       116.7       134.4      134.4
Feed  e/                                               -        42.3       143.0      143.0
Dewatering  f/                                         -           -        21.3       21.3
Pesticide  A/                                          -           -         1.6        1.6
O & M, Lakes  h/                                       -        74.9        74.9       74.9
O & M, Ponds                                           -           -        70.2       74.3
0 & M, Vehicles and Boats  V/                          -       328.6       938.8      938.8
O & M, Equipment and Miscellaneous  /                  -        48.7       139.0      139.0
Total Operating Costs                    (3)     305.4      1039.6      2075.7    2079.8       2079.8     2079.8      2079.8
Investment Cost  k/                          (4)    1414.3    13789.7    14143.4    6010.9             -           -           -
Total Cash Outflow                         (5)    1719.7    14829.3    16219.1    8090.7         2079.8      2079.8     2079.8
III.  Net Cash Flow  (2)-(5)                       (6)   ( 728.3)  (12001.9)  (12406.7)  (2371.7)    4876.1          4969.7      5156.9
IV. Financial Benefit - Cost
Benefit (2)                                (7)     991.4      2287.4      3812.4    5719.0       6955.9      7049.5     7236.7
Cost (5)                                   (8)    1719.7    14829.3    16219.1    8090.7         2079.8      2079.8     2079.8
Net Benefit (7)-(8)                        (9)   ( 728.3)  (12001.9)  (12406.7)  (2371.7)    4876.1          4969.7     5156.9
V.  Financial Rate of Return:                              14.07
a/ Based on a full development yield of 900 kg/ha from Year 5 onwards.
b/ Staffing requirements for project facilities are shown in Annex 6, Table 3.
c/  Paid to the Department of Land Revenue.  Average rent is TK 83/ha of water.
_/ Fertilizer application rates are as follows:
nursery ponds:       Organic manure, 10 MT/ha for 2 crops a year @ TK 30/MT.
rearing ponds:       Organic manure, 7.5 MT/ha for 1 crop a year @ TK 30/MT; plus variable application of inorganic
fertilizers @ TK IOOOfMT, applied for 3 months a year. '
brood stock ponds:  Organic manure, 10 MT/ha/year @ TR 30/MT; variable application of inorganic fertilizers
_  TK 1000/MT.
lake:                Single superphospate, .15 MT/ha/year @ TK 1000/MT.
e/  Feed requirements are as follows:
nursery ponds:       .175 MT/ha oil cake @ TK 2500/MT; and .175 MT/ha of rice bran @ TK 1600/MT per 2 crops.
rearing ponds:       .250 MT/ha of oil cake and .250 MT/ha of rice bran for I crop per two years.
Brood stock ponds:  3 MT/ha/year of oil cake and 3 MT/ha/year of rice bran for 1 crop per 2 years.
f/  Nursery ponds drained twice a year; rearing and brood stock ponds drained once a year.  Unit dewatering cost is
TK 405/ha.
Oil and soap emulsion applied to nursery ponds, 1 application per crop.  Base cost is TK 200/ha.
h/ Includes maintenance of embankments, culverts, netting and periodic weed clearance.
i/  Based on average operation of 10,000 miles per vehicle per year @ 12.5 miles per gallon fuel.  Lubricants charged
at 57. of fuel cost; repair estimated at TK 7,500/vehicle/year.
/  Includes 06M of laboratory equipment, office equipment and furniture and tubewell maintenance.
k/ From Annex 6, Table 2. Investment cost items, including taxes and duties, consist of TK 26.0 M for lake development,
plus a proportional share of infrastructure expenditures (TK 5.6 M) and engineering costs (TK 3.8 M).



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Carp Production and Revenue Projections
Based on a Full Development Yield of 0.9 MT/HA
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Year 6    Year 7-25
Yield (kg/ha)                                 130.0       300.0    500.0    750.0        900.0      900.0       900.0
Production ('000 kg)                          137.7       317.7    529.5    794.3        953.1     953.1        953.1
Gross Carp Sales Revenue (Tk '000) a/        1652.4      3812.4   6354.0   9531.6   11437.2   11437.2         11437.2
plus Fry Sales by C.H.   (Tk 'O00) b/              -          -         -         -     156.0      312.0        624.0
Total Gross Revenue (Tk '000)                1652.4      3812.4   6354.0   9531.6   11593.2   11749.2         12061.2
less Gross Revenue without (Tk '000)  c/   1129.1        1129.1   1129.1   1129.1    1129.1    1129.1          1129.1
Value of Incremental Production (Tk 'O00)   523.3        2683.3   5224.9   8402.5   10464.1   10620.1         10932.1
_n
oo
a/ Based on average wholesale market price of Tk 12/Kg.
b/ Ex-hatchery fry price of Tk 312/10,000. At full development, Central Hatchery fry sales would
be on the order of 20 million/yr.
c/ Based on average yield of 130 kg/ha and ex-lake carp price of Tk 8.2/Kg.
oZ
(D >4



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Average Family Income from Carp Production
(Based on a 407 Catch Share for Project Fishermen)
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                                          WITH PROJECT
No. of                                                                                                                                                Change in          Percentage
Fishermen               Carp          Carp      Fishermens    Average                 Carp              Carp        Fishermens   Average              Average            Increase in Av.
Area     Families                Production    Value    40% Share         FamVlsIIncome         Production        Value       40% Share    Fam!iK         Income    FamplKr Income   Famiv Income
(ha)                               (mt)        (TK'ooo)    (TKTo00)          (T                    mt)           (TK'000)      (TK'000)         (K (T                                 T)
Baluhar               282           140                    48.1        411.4      164.6            1,176                253.8           3,045.6      1,218.2          8,701              7,525               740
Jaydia                 189          156                    31.1        233.9        93.6             600                170.1           2,041.2         816.5         5,234              4,634               872
Fetehpur                47           49                     3.8         31.0       12.4              253                 42.3             507.6         203.0         4,143              3,890             1,638
Kathgara                71           60                     7.8         64.0        25.6             427                 63.9             766.8         306.7          5,112             4,685             1,197
Gobindapur            217           100                    32.1        274.9      110.0            1,100                195.3           2,343.6         937.4         9,374              8,274               852
Marjat                 253           95                    14.4        109.7       43.9              462                227.7           2,732.4       1,093.0         11,505            11,043             2,490
Total              1,059           600                   137.3 -/  1,124.9       450.1              750*               953.1          11,437.2      4,574.8          7,625*            6,875*             1,017*
*average                                                         *average          *average           *average
all lakes                                                        all lakes         all lakes          all lakes
a/  Average carp yield without project  = 130 kg/ha
b/  Average farmgate price of carp         = TK 8.2/kg
c/  Average carp yield with project        = 900 kg/ha at full development                                                                                                                                        - 2
d/  Carp production constitutes the major source of inmome for the project fishermen.                                                                                                                             wo



BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FI-SHERY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(Taka '000)
Incremental         Total             Incremental
Project                Investment           Operating           Project           Economic               Net
Year                    Cost 1/              Cost 2/           Cost -            Benefits 3/         Benefits
1                      1,944.2                -                1,944.2             523.3            ( 1,420.9)
2                     13,220.6               734.2            13,954.8           2,683.3            (11,271.5)
3                    14,776.0              1,770.3            16,546.3           5,224.9            (11,321.4)
4                      8,165.7             1,774.4             9,940.1           8,402.5            ( 1,537.6)
5                        777.7             1,774.4             2,552.1          10,464.1              7,912.0
6                         -                1,774.4             1,774.4          10,620.1              8,845.7
7                                          1,774.4             1,774.4          10,932.1              9,157.7
8                                          1,774.4             1,774.4          10,932.1              9,157.7
9                      3,500.0 4/          1,774.4             5,274.4          10,932.1              5,657.7
10-25                                        1,774.4             1,774.4          10,932.1              9,157.7
0\
Base Economic Rate of Return  = 23.9%
Sensitivity Analysis:                                ROR (%)
All Costs Up 10%                                    20.8
All Costs Up 20%                                    18.3
All Benefits Down 10%                               20.5
All Benefits  Down 20%                              17.2
Costs Up 20% and Benefits Down 20%                  12.7
1/  Economic investment costs equal the corresponding financial costs adjusted for duties and taxes.
Costs include engineering and a proportional share of investment in access roads (50%) and
technical assistance (40%).
2/  Operating costs adjusted for duties and taxes of project lakes and Central Hatchery.  With the project,
the daily labor requirement for fishermen is expected to remain the same. Accordingly, the incremental
operating cost figures do not reflect an incremental labor cost for fishermen.
3/  Incremental benefits are derived from the sale of carp from project lakes and through the sale of carp
fry produced by the Central Hatchery.  Incremental benefits exclude the value of carp produced without           U
the project and revenues obtained through the sale of miscellaneous fish species.  Data on prices
and yields is shown in Annex 9, Table 2.
4/  Vehicle replacement cost.



BANGLADESH - OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Calenda Years1979                                   1980                          1981                          1982                           1983                           1984
lOr   20Qr    3Or   40Or   l Qr   2Q        40 dOr    IOr   20            3r       Or      Or  2 Qr       Q      0       O       0       0      0             2OQr   3r,   4O(r
Note:
CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS                                                                                                                                                                                          Follow-up monitoring
1 PROJECT ORGANIZATION                                                                                                                                                                                     saiveys no be completed
EstablIhshment of Plu                                                                                                                     1st So,r,ey Completed                                          1 year and 4 years after
Prolect completion
2    PREPARATION WVORK                                                                                                                           -
Consultan,t Serices lRecrwtme,tl                        ....
Site S5:rvey2I
LakEe Hydrology lnecestigations and Studies            ... ..
Detailed Design & Contract Documents                                            -
Land Acqois,i.io FibnN Hatchery &
Dug-out Foods                                                                                                -       --
Access Roads                                                                                                 ---
Equipment & Vehicles procurement                        ....       ..I
Lab-Instruments & Facilities Procurement                           I*-                                                       -                            
3    FIELD CONSTRUCTIONII
Infrastructure:                                                                                                                                                               II
Access Roads                                                                                                                         .......
Electrificatior 
Telephone Corr-t,on
Tube-W'ellI
WVater Supply System
Lake Ir,proveme-t:
Ennhankments & Drainge StrLrtrIes
VVeed Cleaning-
Hatchery Compiexes: 
Main Hatchsery (Central) Complex
Facilities & Installations                                     i~ 
Lahe Hatchrweis Complex                                                                         II                                  -     -      -'                           
Fac.ilities & Intallatio- 
Cleaning WorEk
Excavatnon & Installations.....
4.  ENGINEERING SUPERVISION-I
Counter--Part  Lucau Engiqneering Si~pporri
5 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
Fishery and Mianagement                                                                                       lK
F,scal Ye,ars                          -180-4181                                                       921983                                                      t 1984-   --- 1985
1/ Continuing after Project Completion                              July 1                        July 1                        July I                         July 1                        July 1                          July 1
2/ Eupected Early Implementation 
3/ ~~~~~~~  ~~~~-                                      i- ~~~~~~Eupected Effectuniess Date                                                                  Eupected Coe,pletio, Dote,   j
3/ Poss~~~~ble Extension                                      (~~~I September 1, 19791
4J Works not affected by Flood -
Upper Structure Construction andWrl   ak-07
Install anion WVork,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13rd  ak-07



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                   I



- 62 -                    ANNEX 12
BANGLADESH
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Related Documents in Project File
1.   Land and Water Resources Study, IBRD Report PS-13, December 1972.
2.   Bangladesh - Inland Fisheries Project:  Identification Pre-preparation
Mission, Full Report, IBRD, September 28, 1973.
3.   Preliminary Feasibility Report on Inland Fisheries Project in the
District of Jessore, Bureau of Consulting Engineers, Dacca,
May 1976.
4.   Bangladesh - Rural Fisheries Development Project, Dacca Office,
May 12, 1977.
5.   Appraisal of the Aquaculture Development Project in the People's
Republic of Bangladesh, Asian Development Bank, November 1977.
6.   Recent Advances and Prospects of Different Techniques of Major Carp
Seed Production in India, V. G. Jhingran, Director, Central
Inland Fisheries Research Institute, West Bengal, February 28,
1976.
7.   Aquaculture Planning in Asia, UNDP/FAO, 1976.



I



IBRD 13615
88045'                                         89 00'                                          890'15'               JUNE 1978
\ b K,shf-
BANGLADESH
Chuadango
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Project Location
J   1tUz HProject Lakes
aorsona t                                                                   Lake Fishery Stations
Proposed Transmission Lines
j                ~~~~~Roads
2330*                                     -=-_s  Railways                                                                            23'30'-
I                                                    23030 Internatinal Bundary
r ( IBRD >) ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~F A R I D P U R
Fetehpurr/                       ,))      Aaio                   1 
oj' 1e~~'o,*vm ~     (BRD 1361
) '0                     <)/\/a5t7~\ /N Sarosha^<-  t<RC)1362
tN  Da           seoai                                                                               Naar 
/     -r                  \    hg Kathara()                                                                               230 00
ARE 23\151                                                                           . _am Jhoprcha(J E  S                E  2315-
o . , /GabKi n dap ur h/
? >,  I~~IBRD 13619 )                    |
,,.5 ~~~~,,,. r ,) < N\tK IJE~~~~~SSORE
* =*5SQIKSGMer     I N  D: I A           ,~u  O\Bkbra  \                                       AZ
Zw .  )        S                           A                                                   0 r    5             0        15       2
MAo  " of egl800                                                                               8915
~~ ferDf#~~#|ti vc9B~~ahodurpur  94$ 
i8 t4                                                                   J Jingergac a/1
29Xt  X                9            ~~~~~~~Sarasha          <       <                     
{   .  9  t    I N D I A           (Benapo) e                                                                        Noopora%&
r \  .  .   --.      \         /                 i)   )                      M~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~~~onirompur\
X  B '  4 A D  S H J,                         %                             J   Kht
~~ L  t > t   .~.r     -\23'00'   Kannyodah                      r             f                                         23 00'-
;~~~~~~ ~ ~      ~          ~        ~       ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~   2C g       4     6 8        104Ja p
. <   (  k ; \      >               9                   (                O         5        10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  15  20
X J   t   , \   i                   \                     S                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
W  of 8engoi  txf^V      L          ~~~89 00'               (                       89 15'






/           l           -0        - - -                       85
/         885688 56,                                         8858'
8856 / ha                  i Bil                                                BANGLADESH
- N Na7 "s OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
Detail Map of Proposed Project
Lake No.1(Baluhar)& No.2(Jaydia)
Raypur       /              <      ydic 
Tr-r-T Proposed Embankments
Lakshmikundu                 _         Proposed Access Roads
(Approx. Alignment)
zz\~z ,2=Proposed Wire Screens
Road
r ----   Dry Season Road
-2326'-                                                                                                         Railway
/  .  Loke Fishery              | I       Swomps(BilI)                             23e26'-
I  Krishnopur   r     |BStotion and Hatchery                  /     0i5          1T0
I                   I        I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
I                     g        I                                  ,~     ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  1  2,
Khonpu     oudresrow  nthsma     
f   J,   I  Rahmatpur                                              t     or a  ndrmn   .j
)\) 1 tChaturpuor c tac o s  boundare
= X /   00    \          t    Gobindopur            g     0                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lake Fishery \
-X2\5^$a==X--\\~~~~-2 24                                                                               Ha                                              4 z tt2-2
.....  94S..............  &\Ghatpuand /
:REA5t                                       rtGapnpS \Kholishpur                                                               T hisrnap has be ... preared bythe
t N i  -~~~~~~  \%g              =                   Bazropur  Kat/okur  B//                          cbnoliviv r//eof rhe  Zt _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th coyetece f hereaer o
tn , }: .,, \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank and its affihates, anY__
80Ys o7f 8afena/             88-56'\                                             88058'                                              anyR>  t-gneir t, ranfy ndos-,5enet>;
I   x,\                   I                 \ \                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or acceprneof such boundanes.CD0






8853'                                                                 8854' ki                                                      ,/       -   85
Khogradonga                                                                  Muchiparo                  A                             /
\Extorpur                            r Po   e        OEke                                               E
\        Propis er at                                                    BANGLADESH
\\     t  an HateiOXBOW  LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
-2323 \'                                                         t -1                      \\                                Detail Map of Proposed 
Project Lake No. 3 (Fetehpur)
JLA     'Proposed Embankments
|ZZ~1~C /Proposed Wire Screens
----Proposed Access Road
Begampur                                                                                             ________        (Approx. Alignment)
,< a ^ y \ \ \ + ---~~~~~~~~~~~-      --    Dry Season Roads 
Swamps (Bill)
.1           .   .-    . . .A .,/ .
Aad,vrat9r, t                                                                                                       ///
.,.,  .  u .    . .    .    . .    .    .    .    .,  .,  .   -. o   / -"'''',,"'
........... \...... ... 222'....<\  32'
BA   GI    E   23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22'~~~3*2
...                           ~~~~~~~~~~This map has benpeae  y the
. . .        T. ..A                                            World Bank's staff exclusively for                                                                        5 
the convenience of the readers of  \_\_\_I_i_I
IN DI                                                          the report to which it is attached                                                                    M I L E
......                                                       The denominations uoed and the                                         030609010
boudaas hon o tismap                                              030                      60           9010
donot imply. on the part of the                                        __   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _Z
World Bank and its affiliates, any                                                           METERS _
judgmentone legal status of                                                                                                                          Lo
Bay  of Bengal               88a53~~~~~~~~~  any territory or any endorsement                                                                                            8o5
or acceptance of such boundaries                     8'                                                                                           4c






23018.                                               8856'                               BANGLADESH              88057'                                                       88058'
OXBOW LAKES FISHERY PROJECT                                                                                            23018.
DETAILED MAP OF PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                                    l6a
Joka                                       LAKE NO.4 (KATHGARA)                                                                               a0
--                     J.WL. _l__  PROPOSED EMBANKMENTS
PROPOSED WIRE SCREENS
PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD                                Madarparia             ,   /
(APPROX. ALIGNMENT)
DRYSEASON ROADS                      )  /                       '_7
\anipur                                             --X E       =   -_=PADDY LANDS
Kansipur              X<<\                                                                                                                  
Y <                                                J / I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23-017'-
-23017'                                             \                                KATHGARA                                    / 
Th,s map has been prepared by the  Sahpur   \                                                                        /I|Sayamnagar
World flank's staff eaclusively for ,                                        
the convenence of the readers of                   \ 
the repot to which it is attached.\     
The denominations used and the                       -                                                                       oaaaa
boundaries shown on this map                                                                                                Poraparahat
do not imply, on the part of the /<kPWSDLK  /-
World Bank and its affiliates, any                        ,P=O_POSHERY LTAT) -
judgment on the legal status of                                                               FIS-- -   ADHA'ERiY
any treritory or any endorsement                                                              AN HAT__  - -< 
a,racceptance of such boundaries.= /
('\-)<S_ INDIA                                                                             /         \\o
,  .  (e  . . . . / < --~~~                                                                  "          (
< BA4LA   SH  '' '/
?.PROC   .   !.i                      Nagarbarni                             ./1                                       *f5                                                              z 
x~~~~~~~~~
z  t(\2g      \                                                        /      ~       ~        ~        ~      ~     ~ 0  .5  1;              1.5m_
>  !                                          /                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                         coD
23016'
O3A YOF BNGAL       \      -23016'              88,56'                                                      887'8,58'
_3~17'                                                                               KATHGAR8






This mtp hoc been prepored hy tho World Hanko o tff eVcWo-/--y for the convemence  89001'                                              89002.
af the readers of the report to which t it attached. The denomiatons uoed and the
boon;. Vaie  o- on th,o s-p do not imply on the por of the World Book dandt
ofht-  ay rie    gown t on    the /lea n  tatc  of any te-itory or soy endorsement or
acceptance of -ch boo-deci-/                                                                To Chaugacha
To Main Road
-23015'                                                                                                                                                                                   23015'-
Swarupdaha
\   ~ ~ ~~~       ===} ~~~~~~~Lashkarpur
--K b RdA knr K3                                      25    )                0                  X~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POSiD LA K
Dighalsltga                                                                                   FISHEANDSTATI'N
-~~.-  ________________
Masa_pr                                                  GOBINDAPUR                                       / I   BANGlADESHUR
2301
f  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~~~~~4
40   Dhenkipota                                                                                                                        /        X
g                          M~~~~~~~~~Uaswampur       -GOBINDAU                                                                      J              BANGLADESH
.                           --                                            5RBO~~~~~~~~~W LAKES FISHERY PROJECT
/' \R>4\if                                                                              -Xfs   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DETAILED MAP OF PROPOSED PROJECT
~LX   )  f    INDIA          Shahazadpur                                                                                         LAKE NO. 5 (GOBINDAPUR)
BA  LAESH        J                                                      Azmatpur
$r t.                                          .5                       1L\\                                                                   PROPOSED EMBANKMTENTS
K.(        Dos4    es.\ 0i                                   .5                                             - X  |-                \  \            ~~--/   PROPOSED WIRE SCREENS
rrflo TOT  ~~~~~~~   0              .5                               1.5~ILE                                                                  PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
< ~ P fic itc T                    0               .5 _    M I L E S__\                                                                                      (A P P R O X .   A L IG N M E N T )
9 t)\< \ -2313'                  KILOMETERS                                                                                             DRY SEASON ROAD
. j                                                                                                                                             89,00' 89|01'            SWAMP(B_LS
8AYOFBENGAL               89000.                                               89 0~010                                              89002'                                              F. (0
I  I                                                                                                                                            Z'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '0






89002                                                 89004.                                                89006.                   BANGLADESH                      89008.
This map has be-n prepared by the World Bank's staff exclusively for the convenience                                 OXBOW    LAKES  FISHERY  PROJECT
of the raaders of the report to which it s attached. The denominations used and the
beo-dartes shon so this meap do sot imply, .o the part of the Word Bask and its
affiiatie.s. anyudgmoent on the legal stat of  th Wot any Hank-ant O,                                                      DETAILED  MAtP OeF P ROPOSE aD PeROJsECT
acceptance of s-ch boundaries.
LAKE NO. 6 (MARJAT)
PROPOSED EMBANKMENTS
~P R OPOS ED W IR E SC RE ENS
- ___  _  PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
(APPROX. ALIGNMENT)
Chandpara                                 ---   DRY SEASON ROADS
23         | 19'                                                                                                                   Mathanpur       7~,                            23019.
|  ,4  /,/                                             Mirzapur                  \,\<                    Nityanandi //~~~~~~~~ampu
I                                                                                                                                     /7  \\\\   tv
Kata Khal                     6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kuahti.*
v    4         //           Biswanathpur                                                                <       >       <   v~~~~~Jgadspu
/~~~~~~~ _ --  -S~I                                                         0                      1.5=Dashnaa                                    19        S ~ 
|   \\   Ichhap ulr  _ /          -ILO M ETERS                                                                                                  anandi
0   XTo Chaugacha                                                                                                                                                 BAY OF BENGAL   (;>C
'A         89,02'                                                89,04'                                                89,06B                                              SH






____                       ~~~~~~400                                                                                 400                                                                                     '
10.      s0          30           00           30   20   3         00       20   3 
514 QwAmw                1                1ff Qm   5nG1 -wrot '-d Oh
7Ln,ts 2     prn     -iNottl   }    i. 3f pr      [       
fft Qu-r1oo
A-ea for F-LB,, Ep-n-on o
100  2 250
.                                  W kffor/d Banfk 's srah SOOl,T. - elb II
i  f 5                      f  ,    S TubewelI '    t1    |                                   tha repo t to Whl h t vs aletchef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il hoo'e,e,ceCtthereder O
_ - ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
| ,20,  30 |   220       | 30, | 30, | 20 |, 20, | 30,                                           or acceptance of such bo mdanes~~~~th 1500 h stltCf I o sOthe
T-l B.digG-dS....                        L . ...                                                         . ......  - d __ rh
[1111                                                                                                                         WorT,m   .~d Hh~yld S.   -lr~dles0,sr-,on
r   r   -   -   ----  ----  ---- ----_|_|_|_ -_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JU                                                                                                        BANGLADESH
_|_|_|_[~~                        I           PROPOSED OXBOW LAKES FISHERY
_  _OdOn,,r on _o _ _elrl PROJECT
l                                            Total Dugout PondSpiceT W Il.p.1    S  lhl                    l      _      _         _                               GENERALLAYOUTOFTHECENTRALHATCHERY
I  |   i   |   |   2   l   |   [   |   |   |   1    _l  | ]_1_ _|_r_|_|_|                                                                      ~~~~~COMPLEX AT BALUHAR LAKE
-                                                                     l      l     l      l     l      l                                      Trire Hote   Ha hrO                                                       50 totor 00| 509e Chgnrlforinoohrlklsc soudosentent
20OD.5kPOd 30                  0                          30....       . 30. 202030                                                             2
rO     O - t 0 :DAD AlD              suND
;~~~~~~~~~~~~_ __ 4ro_ _00                                                                                                                                                             PROJEC
TBool  d1
010         __      ___ ___                                               COMPLEXATBALUHAR  LAKE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



