Document of                 Lr- COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2545-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 14, 1979
This documet bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - zaire (Z)
Z I           - 0.5 SDR
Z 1           - US$0.65
US$1          X Z 1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD   -  Agence Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement (Belgium)
BR     -  Bureau of Roads
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
EEC/F  -  European Economic Community Special Action Fund
FAC    -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GIR    -  General Interest Roads
KfW       K Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LIR       Local Interest Roads
ODM    -  Overseas Development Ministry
SFD    =  Saudi Fund for Development
SGMTP  =  Service de Gestion du Materiel des Travaux Publics
(Equipment Department)
SMB    =  Service Mecanisation Bacs (Ferry Department)
SNCZ   -  Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:         Bureau of Roads
Amount:              US$26.0 million equivalent (IDA); and US$15.5 million
equivalent (EEC Special Action Credit)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms (for both credits).
Colenders:           Saudi Fund for Development, Federal Republic of Germany,
EEC Special Action Fund, Canada, United Kingdom, France,
Belgium, United States.
Project              The Project covers 2.5 years out of the three year road
Description:        maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of
Roads (BR) (1979-81). It comprises the maintenance and
rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads, including
800 km of paved roads; strengthening and replacement of
bridges; construction of workshops and warehouses; pro-
curement of motor and cable ferries and replacement motors
and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory,
and technical assistance and training. The project would
help meet minimum road transport requirements for the
agricultural sector and would result in substantial
reductions in vehicle operating costs. The major risk
facing the project is that the Government might be unable
to provide its full contribution to the project. In this
case, the execution of the bridge and ferry programs and
the rehabilitation of the paved roads would have to be
slowed down and the project would be undertaken over a
longer period. However, the Government has reiterated
its firm commitment to the Project as one of its highest
priorities and will instruct the newly appointed Con-
troller General for the Ministry of Finance to supplement
the budgetary allocation to BR, as necessary, to compen-
sate for domestic price increases.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                                             Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange
US$ million equivalent             x
Project Cost
Road maintenance and
rehabilitation program              15.7      48.0      63.7          75
Rehabilitation of paved roads          7.2      13.5      20.7           65
Ferry program                          5.4      14.3      19.7           73
Bridge program                         5.2       8.4      13.6          62
Laboratory improvement                 0.1       0.9       1.0           87
Sub-total                        33.6      85.1    118.7           72
Contingencies:
Physical                          3.4       8.5      11.9
Price                             3.6       9.1      12.7
Sub-total                         7.0      17.6     24.6
Total Project Cost                    40.6    102.7    143.3
Net of Taxes                     33.8    102.7    136.5            75
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign        Total
---in US$ million equivalent---
Government                             27.0           0.8 /1       27.8
IDA                                                 26.0           26.0
Canada                                                6.5           6.5
EEC Fund                                6.8           8.7          15.5
Germany                                              23.6          23.6
Saudi Fund for Development                          33.9           33.9
United Kingdom                                        2.2           2.2
United States                                         0.7           0.7
France                                                0.2           0.2
Belgium                                               0.1           0.1
33.8        102.7         136.5
/1   Includes US$600,000 for road works incorporated in IDA Credit 660-ZR
regarding the Cotton Rehabilitation Project.
Estimated Disbursements:
--------US$ Milliion--------
IDA Fiscal Year                      1980         1981          1982
IDA
Annual                                2.7            8.4         14.9
Cumulative                            3.0           11.1         26.0
EEC
Annual                                5.0           10.5
Cumulative                            5.0           15.5
Rate of Return: About 50 percent
Appraisal Report:  No. 1984b-ZR dated May 3, 1979



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED
CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$41.5 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the capital cost of 2 1/2-years out of a
three-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of Roads
(1979-1981). One credit of US$26.0 million would be made from IDA resources;
a second credit of US$15.5 million would be made from the EEC Special Action
Account administered by the Association in accordance with the terms of the
Agreement of May 2, 1978, between the Association and the European Economic
Community. The Saudi Fund for Development will provide the equivalent of
US$33.9 million at 3 percent interest, repayable over 20 years including a
7-year grace period; the Federal Republic of Germany will provide a credit
amounting to US$23.6 million on terms to be agreed through the Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW); Canada will provide a grant of US$6.5 million equiva-
lent through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA); the United
Kingdom will provide a grant of US$2.2 million equivalent through the Over-
seas Development Ministry (ODM1); the United States will provide a grant of
US$700,000 through USAID; France will provide a grant of US$200,000 equivalent
through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC); and Belgium will provide a
grant of US$100,000 equivalent through the Agence Generale de la Cooperation
au Developpement (AGCD).
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in June 1976 and its report (No.
1407-ZR) was distributed on April 13, 1977. Another mission took place in
August 1978; its report is under preparation but its findings are incorporated
below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$130 in 1976, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-fourth of its population of about 26 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of 8 percent per annum, or about three times faster than
the growth of population. Although agriculture accounts for 16 percent of
GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-quarters of the
population. The mining and mineral processing industry accounts for 20 per-
cent of GDP; it has been traditionally the largest source of public revenue
and provides more than two-thirds of the country's merchandise exports.
4.        Zaire is rich in land, forestry, mineral and energy resources,
particularly hydropower resources, nearly all of which are grossly under-
exploited. Even in copper, its share of world "identified resources" (25
1/   This part is identical to that of the President's Report in the Railway
Project (Ln. 2435-ZR).



- 2 -
percent by some estimates) exceeds its share of world production and exports
(7 percent and 10 percent, respectively) by a wide margin. The traditional
constraints to the economic development of Zaire have been: (a) a shortage
of trained and experienced managerial and technical manpower, coupled with
a serious institutional weakness; (b) poor social conditions, particularly
with respect to nutrition and education; (c) the semi-landlocked location,
with a coast limited to 30 km on the Atlantic Ocean; (d) inadequate transport
network, which severely hampers marketing and communication; (e) a relatively
neglected agricultural sector; (f) heavy dependence on one export, copper,
which is subject to wide fluctuations; and (g) inadequate savings. These
constraints reinforce one another: for example, the inadequacy of transport
coupled with inadequately set or enforced farm prices dampen the farmers'
incentive to produce a surplus for the market; and the adverse impact of the
gyrations in copper prices has been accentuated by the institutional con-
straints to devise and implement appropriate policy responses.
5.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years were
marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the economy, but
after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967, the gross
domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974 --
the year which marks the beginning of Zaire's current difficulties. The
uninterrupted growth in GDP of the 1967-74 period was characterized, however,
by an accentuation of structural imbalances. The bulk of investment was
allocated to the modern sectors (mining and manufacturing) and services
benefitting mostly the urban centers. Projects were generally capital-
intensive and contributed relatively little to employment. Agricultural
production expanded at less than half of the rate of GDP. The benefits of
growth accrued disproportionately to urban middle- and high-income groups,
while real wages began to decline. In November 1973, the Government announced
its decision to "Zairianize" the ownership of enterprises in key sectors,
which disrupted economic activity severely because of the poor way in which
the measures were implemented.  Most importantly, the institutional framework
which had started to be put in place began to show signs of weakening in the
form of poor budgetary and foreign exchange management.
6.        The current crisis started in 1975 when GDP fell by 4.6 percent.
The decline in output was especially marked in commercialized agriculture and
manufacturing. In addition, the Government's current budget registered
a deficit of Z 70 million, the first since 1965, owing, in part, to the
cyclical downturn in copper prices. The latter caused the share of taxes on
international trade and transactions in total government revenues to fall from
an average of 63 percent during 1970-74 to some 50 percent in 1975. Reflect-
ing these developments as well as the overall decline in economic activity,
total tax revenues declined from about 30 percent of GDP during 1970-74 to 22
percent in 1975. The external accounts also deteriorated in 1975. Despite a
decrease in imports of 36 percent in real terms, the current account deficit
showed little improvement owing largely to a decline of 38 percent in the
terms of trade. In order to finance the large deficit, Zaire drew substan-
tially on its international reserves and accumulated arrears on external
payments relating to merchandise imports, debt service and invisibles totaling
about US$330 million. Pending a renegotiation of Zaire's external indebted-
ness with both official creditors and private banks, the authorities suspended



- 3 -
most debt service payments, and creditors and suppliers became increas-
ingly reluctant to continue external credits to Zaire. Furthermore, early in
the year the Government announced the nationalization of enterprises in
certain sectors in order to end abuses by the new Zairian owners. With some
exceptions, the management and consequently the finances of enterprises
deteriorated further. As a result, in late 1975, the Government announced its
intention to partly de-nationalize, i.e., return most enterprises to their
original owners.
7.        Faced with mounting difficulties, in early 1976, the Government
adopted a one-year stabilization program which, on March 22, 1976, was sup-
ported by a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. The program was designed to
reduce excess demand pressures and to permit a revival in economic activity
through a limit on wage increases, a considerable reduction in Government
expenditures in real terms, a limit on total credit expansion, the renegotia-
tion of the external public debt, and a commitment not to contract new foreign
loans in the maturity range of 1 to 10 years, except for the financing of
priority projects underway. Pending debt negotiations, the authorities were
also to set aside in a blocked account 10 percent of export receipts to meet
debt service payments. In addition, the program envisaged a reduction of
external payment arrears by about USS73 million during 1976. The policies
affecting wages, incomes, prices and bank credit to enterprises, as well as
the decision to set aside a portion of export receipts for meeting debt
service payments, were all broadly carried out. However, performance departed
substantially from the program targets in two major areas, namely, the govern-
ment budget and the allocation of foreign exchange. The overall budget
deficit, which was to be limited to Z 60 million, reached a record of Z 316
million, equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP. Imports declined by 10 percent
in real terms, with imports of essential goods shrinking disproportionately.
As a result, GDP declined by about 4 percent; unemployment increased; and
inflation accelerated to some 80 percent. The authorities introduced new
foreign exchange restrictions and new external payments arrears of about
$90 million accumulated, raising the outstanding arrears to $420 million at
the end of the year.
8.        In early 1977, the Government adopted another financial program
designed to reduce significantly the domestic rate of inflation and to ensure
at least a moderate recovery in economic activity. In support of this program,
on April 25, 1977, the IMF approved a one-year stand-by arrangement extending
into the third enlarged credit tranche. Given Zaire's very low level of
foreign exchange reserves and large short-term external commitments, the new
program aimed at limiting deficits in the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget. New tax measures (e.g., on coffee and petroleum exports) were
introduced and efforts to improve tax collection and to reduce public expendi-
tures by 20 percent were announced.
9.        The 1977 stabilization program had minimal impact in curbing the
rate of inflation and in improving economic activity. The index of consumer
prices in Kinshasa increased again by about 60 percent during that year.
Despite a recovery in mining production of 4.4 percent, GDP declined by
another 2.1 percent. The overall budget deficit attained Z 310 million, 77
percent more than the IMF target. This, moreover, took place by accumulating
Z 106 million in arrears instead of the reduction envisaged under the program.
The deficit was almost entirely financed by the Central Bank and was to a
large extent responsible for a 60 percent increase in the money supply.



- 4 -
Despite a sharp drop in imports, the overall balance of payments deficit in
1977 increased by about 30 percent and hit the US$500 million mark. In
addition to copper prices, contributing factors were the difficulty in repa-
triating export earnings especially from coffee, and a sharp drop in net
capital inflows. At the end of 1977, net international reserves were negative
by about US$33 million and outstanding external payments arrears, including
those on commercial credits and invisibles, amounted to about US$800 million
equivalent to about two-thirds of annual export receipts. Finally, with a
further decline in real wages, the Government found it increasingly difficult
to maintain the wage freeze. Because of the trends and performance in evidence
during the first six months of the program, Zaire was able to draw only US$6
million of the US$52 million available under the stand-by arrangement and the
arrangement was de facto suspended in November 1977.
10.       In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances continued to grow
and economic activity continued to decline. GDP in real terms most probably
contracted again, possibly by 3 percent, due to adverse weather conditions,
the persisting shortage of inputs in the agriculture, industry and transporta-
tion sectors, and the fall in Gecamines' output resulting partly from the
events which took place in the Shaba province in May and partly from the
unattended rehabilitation needs of the company. The overall bugetary deficit
attained a record level of about Z 560 million, equivalent to a staggering
12.5 percent of commercialized (monetized) GDP, owing to a 40 percent increase
in current expenditures. Deficit financing, together with the worsening
shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and intermediary products, pushed the
annual inflation rate to about 100 percent. Beginning November 1, 1978, the
Government devalued the zaire in four stages from the equivalent of SDR 1.0
to SDR 0.5. According to IMF estimates imports changed only marginally in
1978 and, despite a slight improvement, the overall balance of payments
deficit remained in the neighborhood of US$500 million. The deficit was
financed primarily by further accumulation of arrears (US$369 million on
external public debt, US$150 million on short-term commercial credits and
invisibles). Total arrears increased from about US$800 million at the end of
1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978.
11.       To alleviate the growing debt repayment difficulties, Zaire began
rescheduling negotiations with the Paris Club in late 1975. A first agreement
was reached in June 1976 under which the 11 Paris Club countries partici-
pating agreed to consolidate and reschedule over a 9-year period most unpaid
maturities due on their credits up to the end of 1976. The total amount of
the consolidation (US$211.3 million) was equivalent to about 41 percent of the
total debt service payment due in 1976. A second rescheduling agreement was
reached in July 1977 with the same Paris Club countries for the consolidation
and rescheduling, also over a 9-year period, of maturities due on their
credits in 1977 (US$202.0 million) which amounted to 53 percent of total debt
service payment due in that year. The terms of debt relief extended to Zaire
in both 1976 and 1977 were generally harder than those provided in the recent
past to other developing countries.
12.       With respect to Zaire's obligations vis-a-vis syndicated non-
guaranteed bank loans, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in London
on November 5, 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks. In accordance



- 5 -
with this Memorandum, Zaire has reportedly cleared interest payments in
arrears and falling due. It has also deposited a portion of the corresponding
principal payments in a special account. These funds were to be released in
favor of the creditor banks immediately upon Zaire's becoming entitled to draw
under a US$250 million medium-term loan that Citibank N.A., one of the parti-
cipants in the London meeting, undertook to syndicate on a "best efforts"
basis. However, this loan has not materialized yet.
13.       Actual payments by Zaire of debt service increased during the early
seventies, reaching a peak of about US$190 million in 1974, equivalent to a
debt service ratio of 12.9 percent. Thereafter, they decreased steadily and
amounted to US$127 million in 1976 and US$117 million in 1977, representing a
debt service ratio of 11.2 percent and 9.4 percent, respectively. As a result
of the Paris Club reschedulings and the accumulation of arrears, the propor-
tion of debt service obligations paid declined from 61 percent in 1975 to 41
percent in 1976 and 31 percent in 1977.
14.       At the end of 1977, the external public debt of Zaire stood at
US$3,537 million of which US$2,623 million was disbursed and outstanding.
Most of the debt was incurred during the period 1973-75 when Zaire contracted
a total of US$2.6 billion in external loans to finance various manufacturing
and infrastructure projects, the latter primarily in the transport and energy
sectors. A large proportion of the loans committed in these years were in the
form of non-concessional private lending, including large Euro-currency loans
from syndicated bank groups (US$600 million). This contributed to a deteriora-
tion of the overall maturity structure of the debt. Approximately 60 percent
of the debt is owed to private lenders on commercial terms. Private bank
lending outstanding accounts for 39 percent of the total debt. More than half
the debt outstanding is projected to fall due before 1983.
15.       The most urgent issues facing Zaire concern:  (i) the need to stabi-
lize the economy in cooperation with the IMF; (ii) the need to clear external
debt arrears and meet debt service obligations; and (iii) the need to reverse
the decline in production, to raise productivity and to start new productive
investments. The resource constraints remain severe. Scheduled external
payments on long-term public debt are of the order of US$480 million per year
during 1979-80, implying an average debt service ratio of about 30 percent.
If no further rescheduling were to take place, and assuming that domestic
demand in real terms were to halt the decline of the last three years, gross
capital requirements, net of the pipeline on existing projects (about US$200
million per annum), would average about US$700 million per year in 1979-80.
An important element which weighs heavily on the future and has not been taken
fully into account in the above illustrative estimate is the substantial
rehabilitation needs of Gecamines, which predate the recent events in the
Shaba province.
16.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the persistent weakness of copper
prices. The recent upsurge in copper and especially cobalt prices are en-
couraging developments for Zaire; however, significant difficulties in the



- 6 -
production of these metals have been encountered in the last few months.
Moreover, important domestic problems remain. Adjusting to the resource
constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been seriously
hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of administra-
tive controls, especially with regard to the repatriation and allocation of
foreign exchange earnings and the monitoring of budgetary expenditures, and
the absence of a proper framework for economic decision-making.
17.       With the deepening of the crisis, the Government became increasingly
cognizant of these weaknesses and took a number of positive steps. The most
important of these were: (i) the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as five technical advisers, all appointed by the IMF, at the Central
Bank; (ii) the appointment, by the UNDP, of an expatriate controller general
to the Ministry of Finance, who will also be assisted by a team of technical
experts; and (iii) a proposed reform of the Customs Service, including its
reorganization as an independent entity, the designation of an expatriate
Director, and the appointment of about 30 other expatriates to key posts.
18.       Among the initiatives taken by Zaire in the economic sphere in
recent years is the reversal of the zairianization/nationalization
measures of 1973-74. The so-called retrocession measures were implemented
quite fully in 1977 and, since then, the Government has reaffirmed through
various actions its commitment to expand the role of and reliance on the
private sector. Seven inefficient "commodity offices" have been dissolved;
agricultural producer prices have been raised; under a scheme of "development
conventions" an effort is underway to involve private industry in the rehabili-
tation of agriculture and related infrastructure; a new investment code has
been drafted in cooperation with the private sector and is expected to go into
effect soon; and a number of reforms have been initiated in the management of
state enterprises.
19.       The above actions by the Zairian Government have been accompanied
by still on-going process of decentralization whose recent manifestations
include the creation of an Economic Management Committee, chaired by the Prime
Minister and composed of key ministers. Most important, priority matters are
being discussed, whether revenue collection, customs reform, control of coffee
exports, revitalization of state enterprises, or management in general.
20.       In 1978, Belgium organized two ad hoc international consultations on
Zaire, with the support and participation of the Government. In the first one,
in June 1978, some donors announced modest amounts of commodity assistance,
Zaire was pressed to draw up a new stabilization program with IMF assistance,
and the Bank was asked to help Zaire prepare a three-year public investment
program. In the second conference, in November 1978, Zaire reported on the
additional reforms being undertaken in response to the first conference and,
together with IMF, emphasized the indispensability of substantial external
assistance to the success of a stabilization program. The IMF and Zaire
have recently reached tentative agreement on a stand-by arrangement, but the
agreement has not been finalized yet. The signature of the agreement may
be followed by a new meeting of the Paris Club, and may pave the way for a
meeting of the Consultative Group, subject to the completion of an acceptable
public investment program.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
21.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 16 IDA credits totaling
US$201.5 million for transport, development finance company operations, water
supply, agriculture and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE), the development finance company, approved a US$4.1
million loan for an offshore oil production project in September 1978.  Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of February 28, 1979 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
22.       As of December 31, 1977 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
debt outstanding was about 2.7 percent and its share of current debt service
during 1977, 1.2 percent. Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a
long time, have accelerated and amounted to US$114.5 million as of February 28,
1979. Disbursements on the US$100 million loan to GECAMINES amounted to
US$75.5 as of the same date.
23.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVS), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (BR), received technical and financial
assistance from the Association which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority.
24.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been poor due to the country's inadequate manpower and management capacity.
The first Education Project (1972) was delayed because of administrative
weakness, and had to be reduced in scope. Implementation of the three highway
projects has also been difficult, in particular because of logistical problems
resulting from the vastness of the country. In the last two or three years,
release of the required budgetary funds has been increasingly difficult. Lack
of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the
transport network and marketing system have also resulted in supply problems
for most projects. Finally, inflation has compounded the above problems to
increase project costs. Several projects have been revised or are about to
be revised, including the GECAMINES project, to reduce their scope and reduce
Government counterpart financing.
25.       In the past two years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the agri-
culture, transport, and education sectors, in part through the design and
imilrlr'eritation of appropriate policies. In agriculture, IDA's assistance



- 8 -
focusses on coordinating and reinforcing the efforts made to reverse the
declining trend of agricultural output, decrease reliance on agricultural
imports, and promote the export of selected agricultural commodities. Invest-
ments in industry are also included in our program. A fifth SOFIDE project
and a smallholder maize development project were appraised in 1977 and are
scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
26.       A Consultative Group Meeting for Zaire was held in Paris from June
8-10, 1977. The Group expressed its concern about the shortage of Government
funds to execute ongoing projects and criticized the failure to assure repa-
triation of the windfall profits on coffee.  The Group strongly supported
the Government's intention to give highest priority to the development of
agriculture and decided to create a Working Group on Agriculture, chaired by
the World Bank.  The first meeting of the Working Group took place in Kinshasa,
in March 1978 to review the Government 1978-80 Agricultural Development Plan.
The recommendations made by the Group were used by the Government in the
design of the public investment program for agriculture which is being
finalized. The Consultative Group may be reconvened after the Government
completes its public investments program and agrees with the IMF on an appro-
priate stabilization program.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
27.       Zaire's transport system is essentially based on its natural net-
work of about 15,000 km of waterways consisting of rivers and lakes, most of
which are navigable year-round. In addition there are about 5,000 km of rail-
ways which are mostly extensions of waterways to bypass their unnavigable
portions. The road network serves as a feeder network for the rail/river
trunk system, except in the northeast, where transport is mainly by road.
This is reflected2in Zaire's relatively low road density to total area (0.06
km of road per km ). Only 2,000 km of the total 145,000 km of roads in the
country are paved.
28.       The most important rivers are the Zaire and Kasai, which combined
with their tributaries and several lakes provide navigable waterways serving
large parts of the country. There are about 70 inland ports, of which Kinshasa
on the Zaire river, and Ilebo, on the Kasai river are the main transshipment
points between river, rail and road traffic. Matadi is the only seaport
directly linking the rest of the country with the ocean and is situated on the
Zaire estuary about 150 km from the Atlantic. The rail-river transportation
system includes two major routes: (i) the "Voie Nationale", extending about
2,600 km from Shaba to the Atlantic, comprising the railway from Lubumbashi
to Ilebo (1,575 km), the Kasai river from Ilebo to Kinshasa (650 km) and the
railway from Kinshasa to Matadi (360 km). Total freight carried on the Voie
Nationale is about 650,000 tons annually, including about 50 percent of all
copper exports from Shaba; and (ii) the Zaire river, linking the northeastern
Haut Zaire region to Kinshasa and Matadi, carrying some 400,000 tons.



-9-
29.       The economically important Shaba province is linked to the sea via
three other major but external transport routes, all rail: (i) the Benguela
railway through Angola (closed to traffic from Zaire since 1975 but may become
operational once again by mid-1979) to the port of Lobito which used to carry
about 40-50 percent of Shaba's mineral exports as it is the shortest route
to the sea; (ii) the Zambia and Rhodesia railways to Mozambique (virtually
closed to Zairian traffic because of the political situation in Rhodesia and
Mozambique) and to South Africa, and (iii) the Tanzania-Zambia railway to Dar
es Salaam.
30.       Government responsibility for transport in Zaire is shared by two
Ministries (Departments). General responsibility for transportation, railways,
waterways and civil aviation lies with the Department of Transport and Commu-
nications (DOTC), while responsibility for roads rests with the Department of
Public Works. Management of rail/river and road transport is handled mainly
by three autonomous parastatal agencies. The Office National des Transports
(ONATRA) is responsible for river transport and port operations and also
manages the Matadi-Kinshasa railway. All other railways are managed by the
Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ). Both agencies are under
the Department of Transport and Communications. The Bureau of Roads (BR) --
established, in 1971, within the Department of Public Works, with assistance
from UNDP and IDA -- has primary responsibility for road planning, construc-
tion and maintenance.
31.       The development of Zaire's transport sector has faced several
constraints. At independence, its transport administration was faced with
inadequate technical and managerial staff; Zaire still depends, to some
extent, on foreign expertise for the management of its public services. In
addition, the vastness of the country and an inadequate communication system
create substantial logistical problems for the execution of transport projects,
in particular in remote areas. Poor organization and a lack of adequate
equipment at the major transshipment points of Kinshasa and Ilebo have in-
creased transit times on the Voie Nationale from about 2 weeks normally to
more than 3 weeks, and occasionally to more than a month from the southeast
of Zaire to Kinshasa. Finally, due to the difficult economic situation in
Zaire, budgetary funds and foreign exchange resources have been insufficient
to purchase the necessary spare parts and fuel, thus seriously affecting the
capacity of the river, railway and highway administrations.
32.       To improve the overall coordination of Government investments in the
transport sector, the planning division of the Department of Transport and
Communications (DQTC) was restructured and strengthened. As a result of its
data collection and analysis, more favorable conditions have been created for
preparing transport policies and transport sector investment plans which are
well balanced, address the priority needs of the sector, and take into account
the scarcity of resources. On the basis of proposals made by this Department,
Government prepared, in 1978, a three-year draft investment program for the
entire sector, which provides mainly for the improvement and rehabilitation of
existing facilities in rail-river and road transport. The program aims at the
improvement of important agricultural roads, the supply of petroleum products



- 10 -
to the interior, the exports of minerals, and the development of urban trans-
port. Total investment for this three-year period is estimated at US$490
million. Generally, the program's objectives are sound as they focus on
improving existing capacity rather than on initiating new investments.
33.       The Bank has attempted to assist the Government in the implementa-
tion of these plans and the strengthening of the transport administration
through institutional improvements and training of local staff. For example,
Government agreed during the negotiation of the Railway project to establish
an Operations Coordinating Unit within DOTC to improve operational coordina-
tion between ONATRA and SNCZ, specially at inter-modal transfer points, with
staff, powers and duties satisfactory to the Association. The Bank has also
played a critical role in mobilizing considerable amounts of cofinancing
needed to cover the external financing requirements of priority investments in
this sector.
The Highway Subsector
34.       Road Network.  Zaire's road network, comprising about 145,000 km,
includes about 2,000 km of paved roads, 2,000 km of gravel roads and the
remainder are earth roads at various levels of serviceability. Since many of
Zaire's roads must cross waterways, the ferry system is an essential part of
the road network and at present includes about 225 ferry sites. BR is now
responsible for about 40,000 km of the road network of which 28,000 km have
been identified as roads of particular agricultural importance. The remainder
of the network is the responsibility of the local authorities. Unfortunately,
the local authorities have neither the funds nor the capacity to maintain
these roads properly.
35.       Traffic Growth.  In 1975, the last year for which data are available,
the vehicle fleet was composed of about 184,000 units; some 96,000 were passenger
cars, 70,000 trucks, 3,000 buses and 15,000 other types of vehicles. The aver-
age growth rate of the vehicle fleet was about 9% between 1969 and 1975, but
from 1975 onwards, growth has been estimated at only 3%. The latest complete
countrywide traffic count was carried out in 1959 and since then traffic has
been counted irregularly. Under the Third Highway Project a new countrywide
traffic survey has been carried out by the economic unit of BR. The study has
estimated that only about 3 percent of the network carry over 100 vehicles
per day, reflecting the concentration of economic activity in Zaire in a few
major areas and - at the same time - the difficult transport situation in the
more remote agricultural regions. Average future countrywide annual traffic
growth has been estimated at about 5 percent.
36.       In 1978, the road transport industry was dominated by one large
haulage firm operating over 100 vehicles and serving the larger cities.
Transport within rural areas is usually undertaken by individual carriers,
many of them driver/owners of a single vehicle. Trucking services in the
rural areas are hampered by the general lack of spare parts and fuel, creat-
ing substantial evacuation and supply problems for agro-based industries,
particularly in the more remote provinces of Zaire. Once Zaire's economic
recovery gets underway, the performance of the trucking industry will need
to be closely reviewed to determine whether assistance to this industry is
required.



- 11 -
37.       Administration.  BR employs about 10,700 local employees of which
3,600 are regular staff and 7,100 are paid on a daily basis. Two agencies
have been established under BR: (i) the "Service de Gestion Materiel des
Travaux Publics" (SGMTP) a country-wide logistic support system for equip-
ment maintenance and repair and (ii) the "Service Mecanisation Bacs" (SMB)
responsible for the maintenance and repair of ferries. A construction depart-
ment is responsible for design, but its own staff carries out minor work only
and foreign consultants are hired for major and complex work. An economic
unit was recently attached to this department to be responsible for highway
planning and economic evaluation. The National Laboratory of Public Works is
responsible for testing materials and soil for road construction. At present,
the Laboratory is focusing on research of local materials for use in civil
works.
38.       Since its establishment, the BR has steadily improved its perfor-
mance, although not without difficulty. In its initial phases, the scope of
its responsibilities was modified several times and there was a lack of plan-
ning because of inadequately formulated highway sector priorities resulting in
unproductive investments. In addition, unsatisfactory performance of foreign
experts kept results below expectations. Following the deterioration of
Zaire's economy since 1975, BR lacked sufficient foreign exchange to purchase
spare parts and fuel, causing equipment utilization to decline substantially.
39.       In spite of these difficulties, BR's maintenance and rehabilitation
operations in several parts of Zaire are now well organized and represent a
significant improvement compared with the early 1970's, particularly in the
Bas Zaire and Bandundu provinces. There are about 38 mechanized units of
which 7 are in Bas Zaire, 7 in Bandundu and the remainder in the rest of the
country. At present BR has about US$41.0 million worth of equipment which
is maintained and repaired by SGMTP. Although the limited utilization of
equipment is due in part to general economic difficulties, equipment avail-
ability could be further improved through better organization and appropriate
repair schemes.
40.       Training.  To compensate for the lack of local technical and man-
agerial staff, BR employs about 60 foreign experts, including its Director
General, financed by IDA and several other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
Considerable training in highway administration and engineering of BR's local
staff has taken place under IDA-financed highway projects. Training is
carried out for a substantial part in the Public Works School, which is
receiving financial assistance from various aid donors, in particular the
Federal Republic of Germany. Equipment operators and mechanics are trained
on the job, and under the Third Highway Project various mechanized road main-
tenance training units were created with good results. However, training of
qualified staff is a long process and continuation of these training programs
will be required for quite some time before BR will be able to carry out its
vast operations without substantial foreign expertise.
41.       Financing.  BR's operations are financed from (i) its own budget for
recurrent expenditures consisting of monthly contributions by the Department
of Finance and quarterly contributions from the road fund which is supported



- 12 -
by fuel taxes and (ii) capital financing both from Government and foreign aid
resources. Whereas BR has direct control over expenditures from its recurrent
budget, it has no control over the availability and timely disbursement of its
capital expenditures which are administered directly by the Department
of Finance. Between 1974 and 1977, recurrent expenditures on roads declined
in real terms; although they increased slightly in 1978, they were still 36
percent below their real value in 1974. Real capital expenditures, mostly
supported by foreign contributions, increased through 1975 but have declined
since then. Revenues from road users, although not earmarked for BR's budget,
covered all of BR's annual recurrent expenditures and about 30 percent of its
capital expenditures in 1976. The Government is currently considering to
increase the present real level of road user contributions in order to ensure
the BR of a direct and regular source of finance.
42.       Because the Department of Finance controls BR's investment budget,
BR is dependent on the Department's administration for payments to contractors.
In the past, this has led to frequent delays which have caused a build-up of
debts to contractors amounting to some US$30.0 million equivalent. A loan for
about 15.0 million Zaires to pay for part of the arrears has been negotiated
with a consortium of private banks. The Government also intends to establish
a payment plan for the remaining arrears and improve payment procedures for
the capital budget through the establishment of a quarterly payment procedure
similar to that provided for BR's current budget.
43.       Bank Group Assistance.  Three credits for highway projects have been
made to Zaire totalling US$51.0 million. The main objectives of these projects
were the establishment and strengthening of the Bureau of Roads as an effec-
tive highway maintenance organization and the development of its road main-
tenance and rehabilitation programs.
44.       The First Highway Project (1969) was completed and the credit fully
disbursed by 1976. In April 1978, the Operations Evaluation Department
prepared a Project Performance Audit Report of this project and concluded that
the objective of re-establishing an efficient highway administration and the
beginning of a highway maintenance and rehabilitation program was achieved.
However, the report also noted that a larger expenditure of Bank Group staff
time on the project might have helped to alleviate some of its implementation
problems. As a result of the experience of the First Highway Project, super-
vision was substantially increased during the execution of the Second and
Third Highway Projects.
45.       The Second Highway Project (1972) is substantially completed.  An
amount of about US$40,000 remains undisbursed. Civil works progressed much
slower than anticipated due to the difficulties experienced by several con-
tractors following the "Zairianization" and "nationalization" measures of 1973
and 1974. The project was affected by cost increases and cancellation or
revision of some contracts.



- 13 -
46.       Implementation of the Third Highway Project (1975) was adversely
affected by the deteriorating economic conditions in the country, and BR lacked
sufficient funds and foreign exchange resources to acquire supplies of spare
parts and to build inventories. To permit BR to complete the highway mainten-
ance and rehabilitation works and to start a ferry maintenance and repair pro-
gram, the scope of the project was changed and part of the Credit funds were
reallocated following approval by the Executive Directors (see Memorandum of
the President to the Executive Directors, IDA/R78-35, dated March 20, 1978).
47.       Government Objectives.  To rehabilitate agricultural production,
accelerate supplies, and improve communications between the main economic
centers, Government is giving high priority to road transport. The Government
also intends to concentrate its efforts on road maintenance and rehabilita-
tion. To this end BR, in close cooperation with the Department of Agriculture
and the Planning Commission, has prepared a three-year road maintenance
program that would specifically benefit agricultural areas, preserve existing
investments and maintain priority roads and ferry points at an adequate
serviceability level. No new construction is planned unless further foreign
financing on concessionary terms, in addition to that foreseen under the
project, becomes available. In view of the shortage of spare parts and fuel,
manual road maintenance operations would replace mechanized maintenance where
feasible.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       A staff appraisal report entitled, "Fourth Highway Project" (No.
1984b-ZR dated May 3, 1979), is being circulated separately. A supplementary
project data sheet is provided as Annex III. The project was prepared by BR
and appraised in August 1977 followed by an updating mission in January/
February 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1978. The
Government delegation was led by Mr. Mbelo Okama, Inspector General of the
Department of Finance. Representatives from the Saudi Fund for Development,
CIDA and USAID attended the negotiations.
Background
49.       The three-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program (1979-81)
of BR consists of the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of
priority roads (about 28 percent of the total road network), including 2,000
km of paved roads, rehabilitation and construction of bridges, procurement
of motor and cable ferries and replacement motors and procurement of highway
maintenance equipment. The program was conceived to provide the minimum
requirements for the support of the agricultural sector. Road maintenance
and rehabilitation constitute at present a top priority in Zaire's economic
recovery, and the effectiveness of the Bank Group's assistance to the highway
sector has been enhanced by integrating it in a combined effort with other aid
donors and the Government of Zaire to help finance as much as possible of BR's
capital expenditures required to carry out the three-year program.



- 14 -
50.       The total cost of BR's three-year program (capital and recurrent)
has been estimated at about US$266 million equivalent net of taxes (including
about US$43 million price and physical contingencies) with a foreign exchange
component of about US$152 million. The capital cost of this program amounts
to about US$123 million in foreign exchange, which would have to be provided
by foreign aid. Thus far about US$109.3 million is available in external
financing; this amount would be utilized to cover the capital cost of 2.5
years of the program in foreign exchange (including about US$10 million for
incremental recurrent expenditures) and about US$6.8 million of its cost in
local currency. Since efforts to obtain the external funds for the remaining
half year of the program may take some time and would necessitate a further
delay in the start of the program scheduled for July 1979, it is proposed to
proceed with the project at this stage. Thus, the project would cover 2.5
years out of BR's three-year capital investment program.
Project Description
51.       The project comprises:
(i) routine and periodic maintenance, and where necessary
rehabilitation, of 28,000 km of roads in agricultural
areas and of 12,000 km of main roads on which the roads
in agricultural areas are immediately dependent for the
evacuation of their supplies;
(ii)  rehabilitation and strengthening of 800 km of paved roads;
(iii) repair and replacement of ferries;
(iv) strengthening and where necessary replacement of 25
bridges;
(iv) technical assistance and training, and
(v) improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory.
Detailed Features
52.       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation.  The road maintenance and
rehabilitation program would put special emphasis on the road networks of
Bas Zaire and Bandundu, because of their importance as suppliers of foodstuffs
for these densely populated regions including the large agglomeration of
Kinshasa. The program includes the construction and equipping of workshops
and warehouses and the procurement and replacement of equipment, spare parts
and fuel to assist in road maintenance. About US$43.6 million of equipment
will be purchased, mostly to replace equipment which has reached the end of
its useful life.
53.       Rehabilitation of paved roads.  Zaire's 2,000 km network of paved
roads requires rehabilitation because of neglected maintenance in the past.
These roads, most of which were constructed about 20 years ago, constitute
important communication links within large population centers such as Bas
Zaire and Bandundu or between these regions, Kinshasa and the seaport of



- 15 -
Matadi, and carry heavy traffic. Under the project, 800 km of priority
roads will be rehabilitated to protect the existing investments from further
deterioration.
54.       Repair and Replacement of Ferries.  This part of the program aims
at the strengthening of SMB to increase its capacity and to enable it to ser-
vice gradually the entire ferry system. It comprises the procurement of
11 motor ferries, 45 cable ferries, 48 ferry motors, 51 outboard motors and
spare parts and tools. In addition, workshops and warehouses and 11 ferry
access ramps will be constructed.
55.       The motor ferries will replace ferries in a poor state of repair,
linking main highway axes. Failure to replace these ferries would necessi-
tate the diversion of interregional traffic by indirect routes, often via
poorly maintained roads, causing delays and higher vehicle operating costs.
Cable ferries will be located in the rural areas, where they represent an
indispensable element of the road network and of the marketing and processing
of agricultural products, often perishable.
56.       Bridge Program.  About 25 bridges in a poor state of repair will
be improved or replaced, or newly constructed to replace inadequate ferry
crossings.
57.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The technical assistance and
training program presently underway under the Third Highway Project will be
continued to help BR implement its road maintenance program. About 60 experts
will be employed in various departments to assist in the highway administra-
tion and planning, and in the logistic support systems of the SGMTP and the SMB;
these experts will train their national counterparts. The training program
will train about 1,500 national employees at various levels and about 40
national instructors; this should result in a gradual reduction of the foreign
staff and ensure that adequately trained personnel are available.
58.       The National Public Works Laboratory.  This laboratory plays an
important role in reducing the cost of construction and maintenance opera-
tions through collecting information on the location and availability of road
construction and maintenance materials. Because of a lack of foreign exchange,
the laboratory, whose earnings are in local currency only, is unable to
purchase necessary equipment and to finance the cost of foreign experts.
Under the Third Highway Project, some equipment and foreign experts are being
financed and this program will continue under the proposed project to support
the laboratory's activities.
Project Implementation
59.       BR will be responsible for project implementation.  Because of its
financial constraints, BR will not undertake any other investments beyond the
proposed road maintenance and rehabilitation program and certain minor works
which are already underway. The Government and the Association have agreed on
the work program of BR for 1979, and the Government will prepare and furnish to
the Association for its approval before the end of 1979 and of 1980 the proposed
work programs of BR for 1980 and 1981, respectively (Section 3.01 (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement). BR will also prepare by September 30, 1980 a
five-year plan for road improvement for the period 1982-86 (Section 4.06 of



- 16 -
the Development Credit Agreement). To ensure adequate availability of equip-
ment, spare parts and fuel to the mechanized units of the Bureau and to ensure
the optimum use of maintenance facilities and service of these units and to
maintain ferries in operation, BR has agreed on equipment and ferry avail-
ability indices, which will be closely monitored during project implementation
(Sections 4.05 and 4.08 of the Development Credit Agreement). To overcome the
continuous shortage of spare parts and fuel, BR will make an effort to improve
manual maintenance operations where possible. To this end, BR will create a
position within its administration, to be filled by a qualified expert, to
review present manual road maintenance practices and to recommend possible
improvements therein including proposals on appropriate technology (Section
4.07 of the Development Credit Agreement). Finally, a law No. 78-008 issued
in January 1978 concerning the regional decentralization of Government adminis-
tration could be interpreted as giving the provincial governors authority over
the management of BR. Since this could adversely affect the efficiency of BR's
operations, it was agreed during negotiations that as a condition of credit
effectiveness, this law would be amended to assure that BR has full control
over its assets and the management of its day-to-day operations (Section
6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total cost of the project (which is equal to the total capital
cost of 2.5 years out of BR's three-year program), net of taxes and duties
amounting to about US$6.8 million equivalent, is estimated at US$136.5 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$102.7 million or 75 percent. The
proposed US$26.0 million IDA credit will finance about 19 percent of project
cost, net of taxes. A Credit of US$15.5 million from the EEC Special Action
Account representing about 11 percent of project cost, will finance technical
assistance, equipment, spare parts and road rehabilitation works.
61.       Total external financing amounting to about US$109.3 million will
cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange and about 20 percent of the local
currency capital cost of the project. The Saudi Fund for Development (SFD)
will provide the equivalent of US$33.9 million at 3 percent interest, repay-
able over 20 years, including a 7-year grace period, to finance in particular
the replacement of BR's equipment and the rehabilitation of paved roads. The
Federal Republic of Germany will provide a credit of US$23.6 million equiva-
lent on terms to be agreed through the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau for
equipment, fuel, road rehabilitation and the ferry replacement program.
Canada will provide a grant of US$6.5 million equivalent for equipment and
technical assistance through the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA). The United Kingdom will provide a grant of US$2.2 million equivalent
for the purchase of bailey bridges through the Overseas Development Ministry
(0DM); USAID will contribute a grant of US$700,000 toward the purchase of
equipment; Belgium and France combined will provide about US$300,000 for
technical assistance. The effectiveness of the SFD loan and EEC Special
Action Credit agreements will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
IDA credit (Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). The Associa-
tion also approved in April 1979 a US$1.0 million advance from the Project
Preparation Facility to help finance the continuation of technical assistance
for BR (currently financed under the Third Highway Project, Credit 536-ZR)
until this project becomes effective.



- 17-
62.       The Government will contribute the equivalent of US827.0 million,
representing the capital cost in local currency and an amount of US$800,000,
in foreign exchange including US$600,000 provided by IDA through the Cotton
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 660-ZR of December 28, 1976) for the rehabili-
tation of rural roads and upgrading of secondary roads in the cotton producing
area of the Equateur province. In addition, the Government will provide the
amount of US$83.7 million (net of taxes) including US$23.8 million in foreign
exchange representing the recurrent cost of BR's 2.5 year program. Government
has agreed to contribute at least US$40 million equivalent per year, of which
US$3 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange, supplemented by such
budgetary allocation as shall be necessary (Section 3.01(b) of the Development
Credit Agreement). The capital cost of the project is financed as follows:
Local       Foreign        Total
---in US$ million equivalent---
Government                            27.0         0.8 /1       27.8
IDA                                               26.0          26.0
EEC Special Action Account             6.8         8.7          15.5
Canada (CIDA)                                      6.5           6.5
Germany (KfW)                                     23.6          23.6
Saudi Fund for Development                        33.9          33.9
United Kingdom (ODM)                               2.2           2.2
United States (USAID)                              0.7           0.7
France (FAC)                                       0.2           0.2
Belgium (AGCD)                                     0.1           0.1
33.8       102.7         136.5
/1   Includes road works incorporated in IDA Credit 660-ZR for the
Cotton Rehabilitation Project in the Equateur region.
Procurement
63.       Equipment, vehicles, engines, materials, spare parts and machine/
hand tools (US$7.2 million) financed by IDA will be procured in combined
lots through ICB. Equipment and spares financed under the Special Action
Credit (US$3.0 million) will be procured in combined lots through restricted
ICB in accordance with EEC guidelines. If purchased in amounts below
US$100,000, these items will be purchased locally through comparative shop-
ping. IDA financed rehabilitation of paved roads (US$3.9 million) will be
contracted through ICB under unit price contracts. Rehabilitation of paved
roads financed under the Special Action Credit (US$4.5 million) will be
contracted in accordance with EEC guidelines. Because of their dispersed and
remote locations, and the limited size of the contracts (below US$400,000
each), construction of the workshops, warehouses, bridge abutments and ferry
access ramps (US$10.6 million) will be carried out by local contractors under
unit price contracts following local competitive bidding. Fuel will be
purchased from private companies at the prevailing price. Technical assis-
tance (US$5.0 million in IDA financing and IJS$5.0 million in EEC financing)
will be obtained principally through renewal of existing contracts. To ensure
that civil works by contract will be carried out promptly and payments to



- 18 -
contractors will be made on time, the Government has agreed to take such
measures as shall be necessary to approve contracts upon award and to accele-
rate payments to contractors (Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
64.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows:  (a)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for spare parts, fuel, materials and
equipment; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance;
and (c) 65 percent of total expenditures for road rehabilitation and construc-
tion of workshops, bridge abutments and ferry access ramps.
65.       The proceeds of the EEC Special Action Credit would be disbursed as
follows: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for spare parts and equip-
ment; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant and expert
services; and (c) 80 percent of local expenditures for road rehabilitation
and bridge abutments.
Economic Justification and Benefits
66.       The economic rate of return of the maintenance and rehabilitation
operations on gravel roads has been estimated at about 67 percent based on
conservative estimates of traffic flows and vehicle operating cost savings.
The economic rate of return for the rehabilitation of a representative paved
road has been estimated to be about 53 percent. The economic rate of return
for the ferry component has been estimated at between 37 and 55 percent based
on analysis of representative ferries, depending on the proportion of through
traffic that would otherwise be diverted over longer distances on alternative
routes which are less well maintained. The rate of return for the bridge
program is based on results from a sample of bridges to be strengthened or
replaced and is in excess of 90 percent for the improvement or replacement of
existing bridges and varies between 35 and 39 percent where newly constructed
bridges would replace old ferries. The aggregated economic rate of return for
the road maintenance, rehabilitation, motor ferry and bridge components has
been estimated at 55 percent. The structure of costs and benefits of the
project are such that shadow pricing of foreign exchange will increase the
project's economic rate of return.
67.       The benefits of the project should be felt throughout Zaire.  The
project will provide minimum road transport requirements to support agricul-
tural production and will result in substantially reducing vehicle operating
costs. Improved road connections and ferry crossings will also be beneficial
for the rural population. The project should help to increase the share of
agriculture in GNP and reduce imports of foodstuffs in the long run.
Risks
68.       The major risk of the project would be the possible inability of
the Government to provide its share to the cost of the project. If this
happens, the execution of the bridge and the ferry programs and the rehabil-
itation of the paved roads will have to be slowed down and project implemen-
tation would have to be spread over a longer period. In this event, the



- 19 -
returns on the individual components actually carried out would still be
economically justified. However, the Government has reiterated its firm
commitment to the project as one of its highest priorities and will instruct
the Controller General to the Ministry of Finance to supplement the budgetary
allocation to BR, as necessary, to compensate for domestic price increases.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire, the
Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the draft
Special Action Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire and the Associa-
tion as Administrator of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by Member States of the EEC are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
71.       The effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement is subject to
the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action Credit and of the Loan Agreement between the Government of
Zaire and the Saudi Fund for Development (except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement). A condition of effectiveness of the Special Action Credit Agree-
ment is that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement other than the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Agreement,
have been fulfilled. Effectiveness is also subject to the adoption by Govern-
ment of legislation satisfactory to the Association ensuring that BR has full
control over its assets and the management of its day-to-day operations
(Section 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed EEC Special
Action Credit would be in conformity with the Agreement dated May 2, 1978,
between the Association and the EEC and its Member States.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 14, 1979



-20 -                                                           Ann ex i
tA1l.XZ~L  WKIC.3~S ZiC~ s~ov~                                           Pagee  I  of  7
-ZfEFENCE GROUi'S (ADJtJ7 CZD tVZi'GES
ZAIRE                                                         LA-
liS 4R7A (THOUSAND SO. 04.)                                                           - MOST RECEhT FSTIMA'C)
2345.4                                                         SAXAE         SAE SEXT HiGRE2
AGPICC.- T`'LAL    326.2                                    NOST RECENt        G7,CGCR.YHIC    tNC {2KE     rINcCOE
1960  Lb    1970  Sb TST.ATRZ  b         lCEGION /c   GURou? id    GROUP /e
ENERCY CO!'S1MPTIiON PER CAPITA
(9.AOGLQh  CF CCJG. FPUIVALENT)         87.0         81.;:       75.(              86.7        88.9         :51.7
rCP'-p'T. ` -,.q -,n  _--T  -r..,
.',,,, r t!XAT:O'4, 't1D-EEAi
(M{LL ;WSS)                           16.J         21.6        26.1
Ul.FA  POWPULATION (2ERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.7            21.6       26.4              13.6         15.c         24.2
POPULATION DENSTn
P.E" 9-i. A.                           7.0           9.0       11.0              18.4         *6.t         42.7
?ER S'-.  K. 'A;.RiOCLTU9AL LAND      52.0         67.0        tO.0              53.6       254.1          95.3
POPULATION AS0 FtRMUCTURE (!RLCERT)
0-14 IiS.                             43.7         44.4        44.2              44.4         *3.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                             52.5         52.8        53.0              52.7        53.3          52.8
65 TRS. AND AE_I7E                      3.8           2.8        2.8               2.8          2.9          3.0
PCP!Lr.tION GAOrrL RATE %(PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    -           2.7        2.7               2.6          2.4          2.'
UF.SAN                                  ..          3.0         8.0               5.S          4.0          8.e
..;''Z ''E.'. -.U'. (?EP. WOlS,)     67.3         ;6.8        45.2               0 .7       1.4.3         4?,?
CRUlE DrAT9 ?A7E (PER IEOUSAND)         26.0          23.2       20.5              20.6         19.7          12.4
SSC;S R:-:RODucJIO!m U,.T                 ..           2.8        2.9               3.1          2.9          3.2
F<t.M'LY  .NWG
ACCEP!?,kS. .ky(NU2J 'TTh')SANDS)       ..            ..         ..
V-ZeD ~ ~ ~ C  -,',Z!! W=Z)le
1l4'EA OP LE)G  FKerU;TION
?'At C?ITA (1970-100)                100.8        100.0        91.9              94.2        96.4         104.3
CALORIES (PERCn(T 0or
6  G   .;n    ; 0i6  :.1 D.T        3;.0          ?3.0       3.1.              53.2         'CCS.
JF W3IC7! ANIMAL  NWD PULSE           ..         16.0 /f   12.5                17.1         13.9         17.5
SilLD (ACES 1-4) WSRTAL7. LATE             ..           ..          ..               ..           ..           7.5
HEALTH
*IYt' FECTA1ICY tT BIRTR (YEARS)    39.5              42.0       43.5              43.7         45.8         53.3
:;YA,NT MORrALITY UATZ (PER
'l40SAND)                              104.0 /j         ..         ..             138.4        102.7         82.3
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          11.0       19.0              22.4         26.4         31.1
ULtAN                                   ..         33.0        38.0              66.3         63.5         68.5
PUR.                                    ..          4.0        12.0              10.4         14.1         18.2
ACCESS t3 EXCRZTA DISPOSAL (PERCZFyT
Of POPE,'TA;:067
T AL                                   ..           5.0   ~ 2.0                 23.9         16.1         37.5
BeA)i                                   ..5.0                  67.0              70.3         65.9         69.5
RIURAL                                  ..          5.0         6.0              14.2          3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER FUYSLCI.N             63000.C      30040.0   27900.0 /b          21757.5      13432.7       9359.2
POPL'LATION PER NtRSLNG PERSON             ..      13230.0   11650.0 g           3473.S       6983.3       2762.5
POPULArI0N PER HOCSPILTAL BZD
TDTAL                                   *-        320.0       330.0             645.4      1157.6         786.5
'"7RBAN                                 *-          90.c      110.0             172.9        13.3        276.4
FUR-AL                                  ..       1070.0      10C.0             1232.6      1346.8        1358.4
ADSISSIONS FER FOSPITAL BESl               ..           ..          ..             i9.2         19.5          19.2
6'.RiPE SIZE CF LOUSEEOLD
ICI.L                                   ..            ...        ..               4.9          5.2
LTPSAN                                  ..           6.1         ..               5.0          4.8
RUR-9AL                                 ..            ..         ..               4.7          5.3
VE RAGE iThLBER JF PER.5CNS PER ROOt
MTEAi                                    ..           ..          ...
,AG-ESS Ym rr. TIXCIY CFR(CEtUT
If" .>fELLLeIG;S)
TOTAl.                                  ..            ..          ..                ..        25.9          28.3
RURAL                                    ..           ..          ..                ..         S.7          10.3



- 21 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                 Page  2  of  7
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ZAIRE
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
NDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  b     1970 Lb ESTDIATZ lb       REGION  Gc GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCA-'ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 60.0         90.0      88.0 /h          52.1        62.9        75.8
FEHALE                38.0        66.0         ..             37.6       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          9.0      11.0              8.0        14.4        17.7
PEDLE                  1.0         4.0        6.0              5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCZNT OF SECONDARY) 27.0          10.0      14.0              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHU RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.0         43.0        ..             43.2        38.5        34.3
SECDNDARY                          20.0         20.0      23.0             22.8        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PECENUT)          ..         13.0      15.0             20.3        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARM PER TIIUSAND
POPUIATION                          3.0          3.0       3.5              3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          3.0     101.0             40.1        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.3       0.3              2.2         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.0          9.0       2.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMJA ANNUAL ATrrNDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1          0.1       0.1              1.2         1.4          1.6
EhPLOYNMT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7900.0       9700.0   10800.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   43.8         42.8      42.3             32.6       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0         79.0      77.0 /t          73.3        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCEIIT)                 8.8        10.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                47.7         44.9      43.6             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                 54.4         52.1      50.9             54.8        53.3        50.3
FMALE                               41.2         37.9      36.5             27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1        1.1             1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             25.7        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEILDS    ..            ..        ..             55.1        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..              5.8         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             14.5        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL tUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            108.8        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                ..                   80.0             74.1        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      76.0            124.4       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             59.6        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVErL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      25.0             26.8        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                *-           *-      80.0             47.6        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of che indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yar between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Incom  ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /a  Lower Middle Incom
($281-550 per capita. 1976);  /f  1965;  LE  1955-58;   /h  1972;   /i  Aa percentage of emloymnt.
Septemer, 1978



22                                                                             Annex I
Page 3 of 7
KIY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME *ROUP/I
Rgietor  lnom.. Group                Low In- */b                        Lov r Middle                 bnto rdita  Middle                       Uppir Middl             High Iqom_/f                  Co-ntre
l Ineoote   Ineqqd                                                                       Oit Iocm.f.  n5l Emporter-
55cm SenMalamI                               ngalw                      Cho. .!ihOutI                                                         Cabho
|  ururdt                 Hall               sot...n.                    t-ory Coast                              Raunion
C-ntral Afri.an Ftp.   M.osbiqus             Cnuroon                    Meurtt-u
Chad                      Nisr               Cap  V-rd.                 N bti
CAoro                     9 Rtwda            CoSo, P.R.                 Seythslle.
Ethiopl                   Snrr. LaoS.        Equatorial Cu1 a.
OFRICO SOITH           Gabia  ah                  Sal-Ita           Lihbrta
OF SSHARA              Guloca                    T-nsnta            MAritin.
floiRTe-Ri*a              logo              Ngl 6-  
Kenya                     Og-nd,             RhodiLa
Le.otho                   Upper Voltt        Sao Tm-  & Prlocip.
Madagseoar               Zaire              Ranegal
Sudan
Embi.
Egypt                                       Moreee                     Algeri                                   Bahrain                      Igrel rurl 
NORTH AFRICA                A. AR.                                                             Jordn                                     Ira-                        0-                           Lib'b
kOE MI SSLriE
EAST  ~   ~      YeenP.D.1.                                                              SPrtan   R.                               Ta                                                        aa
tOOT                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tootat             Lhabor                                                   S.od I ArohIa
r Pited Ah b emir
Afghani:tsn             Madi-
SOCTH ASLA             Nhntl adeh Nepal
FUDT                      Sri L-nk
Indi
Camboddi                                     How H ebrides             Cht     Rp   of                          Fiji                          me?rio o Sm..
S  Adond    l                                Pspoa SAv Oulna           Clhart  alInd.                            Hong Kotg                   S?unm
EAST ASIA              Lao P.D.R.                                   Philippoes                 Kore, Rp. of                                                          Prenrh PIveast-
Sol-mor Ialrda                              Thailtnd                   M..                                                                   FoalS
Viat N.                                      Tong                       MHIowta                                                              N-v C.I*dont-
Wester.  SAo              Tru-t T-rritory of the Paoifi ScngaPore
Heiti                                       Boltota                      nEtig'.          Guattmla               ArS.ntin-                   B.he.
El Slviador                Jalls.             .Intooa               Rarhedo,                    Fsratd.
L-IN  AMRICA                                                        Gu;n                       ChileCA            8.110                 grnet                       Can LOn.
Hondur-                    Cst  Ritc          Par.auay              Cudelop1 Vpn                        la
St  Otnoent                S  e   sg          Peru                 NRth.rl nd. %ntill.          Virgin lalnda (0.S.)
Damintoir R-p.   St. Kitt.-Nevl-         Peom.
.eu.dor            St. Luta              Pverto Rico
TrInidad C Tonsgo
Ur,gJav
T_rktv                                   Cvprus                      Chanel Islnd
le, of Mon                 Faero  Salands
ILSOPErorcuR I Matriib t-
Vorttge                    C-.eo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1                                                           VoYgosisri                  Spain
A.ctr.lia         Finl-nd                         Italy                Norv-                    United State.
INDUSTRIALIZED         A.Stri             Frn s                          Japan                 Sooth Africa
COUNTRIES              0.bl'i             G.n-ay Fad. Rep. of            Lc.Rdmbocrg           Svde
C.nad              1oe-Ind                        Netherland           Sitt.rl-nd
Dm-hrk             Irela d                        NHe ZValand          United Kingdo-
Alban-i            Ermn Doe. R-p.              USSR
'o1eria           HSuneary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    Chine FR.  of    Kore  Do. Rep. of
ECONOMIES              Cbh                Mo"golia
Cesohal ovekla   Poland
'e  F---d or 19'6 ES? per capict I1  1976 0S doller.
7b  S2F0 or lac  per Capit
'c SZSI-55D per capita.
';   551-1135 per tepit.
*  S1136-2500 per -apit.                                                                                                                                                                                      FPDFo
c   -ver S2500 per tpit.



Annex I
- 23                                                                     Page 4 of 7
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Altho-gh the data ore drawn from sources generally judged the noet authoritative and reliable.  it should also be noted that thev My not be inter-
nationa'1v comparable beceuse of the lack of standardieed definitions and concepts  sed by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, ntnetheless,
useful o describe orders of nagnitude, indicate trends, and characterime certain major differences between sountries.
The adiusted group averages for ecch indicator are popnlotion-wsighted gepoetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator nd the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of conctries among the indicators depends on aveilability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages fur Capitol Sorplus Oil Exporcers and ifdisotocs of acc.ss   to water and encreta disposal, housing. incsme distribution and poverty are
sitple ynpolation-woighted gotooerricnmeans whoct the oxclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. k)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most resent estim.  e of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public sod private general and specializad hospital and ra-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                             at least one physician.  Establiabents providing principally custodial
care are ot included. Rur-l hospitals, however, include health and sd-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - CNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centeca not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a mdical as-
calculated by same conversIon method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer im-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bad - Total umabar of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumPtioo of coomercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of bade.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSINi
Averasee sloe of household (prerona oar household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who abate living quarters
Total populatioo, old-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                   and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-yeat estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purpses.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratiu of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; differcnt definitions of urb.. areas  may affect Somparability                 Average number of persons per room  - total, urban, and rural - Average  um-
of data among countries,                                                               beT of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year population per square kilom.eter (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Ascess to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, cnd female - Total ad femle enrollment of a11 age
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primry schwol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populatione; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with univereal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment my emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for  aost recent estimate                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Ass..al deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and fele - Computed as above; secondary edaca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-yeer average ending in 1975 for moat recent estiate.                          vides general vccational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Dross reprnduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of Sge; correspoodence courees are generally
in her normal oeproductive period if she empari.noes present aSe-                      emoludad.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clode technical, industrial, or other programs which operats independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family Planning - users (percent of married women) - Peroestage of                       spondlng levels..
married women   of ushild-bearng age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate edulis (able to read and welte) as
devices to all married women in same age grasp,                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years  nd over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUIMPTION
nden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passonger c.s (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all fond comodities.                                     seating less than eight persone; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lees              broadcasts to general public per thousnd of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recept years may not be comparable since moat countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
m-I activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (oer thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genart
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowiog 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV  ate. was in effect.
Per capita aupply of protein (grams per day) - Protein contest of per                 Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   ti.n of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grans                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Tbese stsdards are lower thas those of 75 grams of toct1 protein and                   sold during the year, including adeissiosn  to drive-in cines nd mobile
23 grams of animal protein as us avorage for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pnlse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per diy.                                  Total labor force (thousande) - Efonomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tins in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Pemal. labor force a percentage of total labor force.
HEALTh                                                                                 Agriculture (Percent) - Labor for.e in farming, foreatry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remeaincg at birth; usually fie-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               industry (nercent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                P-aticioatiom rate (percent) - total, mle, and female - Total, ma1e, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Acsess to safe water (percent of populatios) - total, urbar, and rural -                 Thees are ILO'- adjusted participation rates reflecting ae-ses
Number of people (total,  rban. and rural) sith reasonable access to                   structure of the populetio. and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or ntandpnnt located hot more                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
chus 200 meters froe a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or me.bers of the household do rot have to                   of households.
speed a diuproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
vater needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e-ureta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Efcreta                      nutritionally adequate dior plus e.aentil nor-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treat=enc, of human encreca and wasto-wator by wator-borse myntem                  Etirmated relative coverty income level (USf  per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Popvlatilon per physician - Poyulation divided by number of practicing                   per capita pereonal income of the country.
phyp-ciann qualifiod from a medical school at university level.                   Eftimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rtral -
Population per nurs- na porss - Populat-on divided by number of                          Perront of populotion (urban sod rural) who are either "absolute poor' or
practicing main and fomale grad-sate nuros, practical curses, sod                     "relative poor" whichever is grester.
as-istcot nurses
Esonomic and Social Dats Division
Efonomic Analysis and Projections Department



Aanex I
ECONC)IC DEYELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                      Page 5 cf'
Annual
Actual                                                    ----Growth Rates-                  ---Shares of GDP-
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977(E)  1978 (E)       1970-74       1974-78                1970    1974    1978
A.  National Accounts Data                                                                                                                                     __
1.  GDP (millions US$ at 70 prices)        1904.2  2046.8   2066.2   2208.6   2344.0   2235.8   2115.2   2071.5   2019.7                     5.3         -3.7                 100.0   100.0   100.0
2.  Gains from TT                               -   -217.6   -193.2   -128.6   -168.7   -441.0   -430.4   -420.9   -456.8                    ---                                 -      -7.2   -22.6
3.  Gross domestic income (I + 2)          1904.2  1829.2   1873.0   2080.0   2175.3   1794.8   1684.8   1650.6   1562.9                     3.4         -8.0                 100.0    92.8    77.4
4.  Imports                                 835.0   917.2    934.8   1017.4   1123.8    720.4    650.0    615.6    615.                      7.8        -14.0                  43.8    47.9    30.5
5.  Exports - volume                        826.6   934.0    942.6    966.6    986.8    897.2    908.0    971.0    988.7                    4.5           0.2                  43.4    42.1    49.0
6.  Exports - TT adjust.                    826.6   716.4    749.4    838.0    818.0    456.2    477.6    550.1    531.9                   -0.3         -16.6                  43.4    34.9    26.3
7.  Resource gap -- TT adjust                  8.4   200.8    185.4    179.4    305.7    264.2    172.4           65.5      81.1          145.6         -15.0                   0.4    13.0       4.i
8.  Total consumption                      1394.4  1-21.0   1419.6   1531.2   1764.2   1480.6   1405.0   1350.6   1280.0                    6.1          -7.7                  73.7    75.3    63.4
9.  Investment                              518.2   649.0    638.8    720.6    753.0    578.4    452.2    365.5    365.0                    9.8         -16.5                  27.2    32.1    18.1
10.  National savings                         377.6   413.3    415.7    422.8    282.6    230.9    187.1    228.1    216.3 2/               -7.0          -6.5                  19.8    12.1    10.7
11.  Domestic savings                         509.8   448.2    453.4    548.8    411.1    341.2    279.8    300.0    282.9                  -5.2          -8.9                  26.8    17.5    14.0
12.  GDP at current US$                      1904.2  2017.2   2158.0   2753.0   3591.8   3586.2   3602.7   4565.6   7545.6
B.  Prices(1970 - 100)
1.  Export price index                      100.0    79.6       79.5    115.2    149.0    108.3    125.0    128.9    138.0
2.  Import price index                      100.0   103.8    114.7    132.9    179.8    213.2    204.8    224.7    240.4
3.  Terms of trade index                    100.0    76.7       69.3      86.7      82.3      50.8      61.0      57. 4     57.4
4.  GDP deflator                             100.0    98.6    104.4    133.2    157.7    174.6    170.3    220.4    373 6
5.  Average exchange rate (Z/$)                0.5     o.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.807    0.857    0.809-/
C.  Selected Indicators                         1970-74
1.  ICOR                                       5.9
2.  Import elasticity                          1.47
3.  Average national saving rate               0.18
4.  Marginal savings rate                    -0.35
5.  Imports/GDP                                0.46
6.  Investment/GDP                             0.32
7.  Resource gap/GDP                           0.09
D       (. Public Finance                       1970      1973      1974      1975      1976 1   1977 '   1978 !
(as Z of GDIP)
1.  Current revenue                          33.1     27.4      30.0      24.1      18.4      19.0    14.5
(l.l)Tax revenue                        30.0      26.9      28.1      21.8      17.8      18.7    14.2
(2)  Current expenditures               27.2      24.4      29.4      28.0      25.2      26.4    25.0
(3)  Capital expenditures                6.6       7.6      11.1       4.7       5'4       3.0      2.0
1/  Average rate for the first three quarters.
/  Assuming only half of investment income due is paid.
]/ Percentages of cotmercialized GDP.
not applicable



- 25 -
Annex I
DOP AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE    P
(Millions of US$)
Actual
1970             1973     1974       1975    1976(E) 1977(E)
A.  Summary Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (inc.NFS)                  826.6          1113.6   1470.2    971.6   1135.0  1252.2
2.  Imports (inc.NFS)                  835.0          1352.2   2020.6   1535.8   1368.2  1385.2
3.  Resource Balance                    -8.4          -238.6   -550.4   -564.2   -233.2  -133.0
4.  Net Factor Service Income        -132.2           -167.4  .-231.1   -195.6   -189.9  -195.0
(1)  Direct Investment Income    -23.6             -23.1    -21.9    -11.7       -4.9    -4.0
(2)  Workers remittances (net)   -37.7             -99.3   -115.4    -86.4    -80.8  -110.0
(3)  Other factor service income  -4.9             -45.0    -93.8    -97.5   -105.0  -106.0
5.  Curent transfers (net)              77.2           126.2    118.9    103.2    130.0   115.0
6.  Balance on Current-Account         -63.4           -279.8   -662.6   -656.6   -293.1  -213.0
7. Private direct investment           42.2             75.6    125.4      37.5      35.0    23.8
8.  Public MT and LT loans
9.  Disbursements of pipeline           31.1            365.2    524.3    500.0    585.0   448.7
10.  Amortization of existing debt    -28.1              -59.4   -125.5    -92.9    -65.5   -50.5
11.  Net disbursements                    3.0           305       398.8    407.1    519.5   398.2
12.  Short-term capital                  38.0             75.8    143.8   -172.4      --        --
13. Arrears (net)                         -               -         -      329.0    135OJ  335 0
14.  Errors and omissions              -27.8           -108.4    -98.4   -233.4Z  -463.4J -472.6 U
15.  Change in net reserves (increase   8.0             -69.0      93.0    178.0      67.0   -71.4
of which IMF)                                     (3.4)    (0.5)   (51.2)  (124.1)  (44.6)
16.  Net international reserves                         233.7    140.7    .37.3   -104.3   -32.9
B. Grants and loans commitments
1.  Official grant                      79.3           119.8    146.7    167.1    153.0   175.0
2.  Total public M/LT loans           194.0          1,104.6    970.8    513.5    422.2   161.7
(1) IBRD                            -               -          -      100.0       -       -
(2) IDA                             5.0              8.5     10.0      52.0     50.5    18.0
(3) Other multilateral              8.9              3.9      28.1      2.0      17.0     1.3
(4) Governments                    10.0            288.7    286.9    124.2    170.6   123.1
(5) Suppliers                     115.9            252.6    159.9    132.6       40.5    12.2
(6) Financial institutions         54.2            550.9    485.9    102.7    126.5       7.1
(7) Bonds                           -                -         -        -        17.1     -
(8) Other
C.  Memorandum items                         Avetage
1.  Grant element of total loan          1970-72
commitments                          18.5         22.6      13.3     22.8      23.8    40.3
2.  Average interest (Z)                    6.8          6.3       7.5      6.2       6.2     4.2
3.  Average maturity (years)               13.6         14.5      12.7     16.1      17.1    22.4
4.  Average grace                           3.6          4.4       4.6      4.6       3.7     5.1
1/  Includes the couaterpart entries to arrears and an undetermined amount of short-term  capital
outflows as vell as of imports.
-:'not available



- 26 -
Annex I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS            Page 7 of 7
Actual
1970    1972    1973       1974      1975      1976      1977
A. Medium and Long Term Debt/
Disbursed Only
1. Total debt outstanding(DOD
of period)                  310.6   544.2   862.3   1294.6   1655.1   2168.8   2632.9
2.  Including undisbursed           538.9   714.9  1750.8   2676.9   3008.3   3305.6   3536.8
3.  Public debt service              36.8    61.1    93.3    189.4    154.7    127.2    117.5
(1) Interest                      8.8    17.2    33.9       63.9      61.8      61.7      67.0
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Public debt service ratio         4.5      8.2      8.4      12.9      15.9     11.2       9.4
2.  Public debt service/GDP( )        1.9      2.8      3.4       5.3       4.3       3.5      2.6
3. Public debt service/Govt.
revenue                       5.8    10.2    12.4        17.6      17.9      21.0      14.9
C.  Items
1. Interest on total DOD/total
DOD                            2.8     3.2      3.9       4.9       3.7       2.8       2.5
2.  Total debt service/total DOD  11.8    11.2    10.8           14.6       9.3      5.9       4.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(inc. NFS)                    3.7    22.5    27.0        25.9      32.6     42.8      32.4
2.  Net transfer/imports(inc.NFS) -0.7    16.8    20.1          16.6      22.5      33.5      24.0
3. Net transfer/gross disburse-
ments                       -18.3    74.6    74.5        63.9      69.1      78.3      73.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD disb./gross total disb.    -           -        -         -       2.4       3.5       5.3
2.  Bank Group disb./gross total
disb.                         2.4      2.1      1.9'      1.9       4.6       6.4     12.6
3.  IBRD DOD/total DOD                1.6      0.5      0.2       -        0.7       1.5       2.1
4.  Bank Group DOD/total DOD          1.8      2.0      2.1       2.1      3.0       4.0       5.4
5.  IBRD debt service/total debt
service                       4.5      1.9      1.2       0.6       0.9      2.7       3.4
6.  Bank Group debt service/total
debt service                  4.5      1.9      1.3       0.6       0.9      2.9       3.7
Outstanding December 31, 1977
F., External Debt (Disbursed only)               Amount      Z
1.  IBBD                                      56.4      2.1
2.  Bank Group                               143.4      5.4
3.  Other multilateral                        36.4      1.4
4.  Governments                              801.2    30.4
(of which centrally planned
economies)                        (108.2)   (4.1)
5.  Suppliers                               505.6    19.2
6.  Financial Institutions                 1126.3    42.8
7.  Bonds                                      6.5     0.3
8.  Other                                    13.691    0.5
9.  Total public M6LT debt                 2632.9- _00.
(including undisbursed)             (3536.8)-
G. Debt Profile
Total debt service 1978-82/total
DOD end of 1977                           0.85
Includes US$268.0 million of principal in arrears but excludes US$109.4 million of interest in arrears.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of January 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit       Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ Millions
Number        Year      Borrower       Purpose        Bank      IDA 2/  Undisbursed
Prior to   Congo and  Transport           91.6 1/
June 1960  Otraco       Infrastructure
Two credits fully disbursed                                      11.0
255          1971      ZAIRE       River Transport    -          7.0         0.7
271          1972      ZAIRE       DFC II              -        10.0         0.0 3/
272          1972      ZAIRE       Education I         -         6.5         2.8
292          1972      ZAIRE       Highway II          -        19.0         0.1
398          1974     ZAIRE       Livestock I          -         8.5         2.6
463          1974     ZAIRE       DFC III              -        10.0         0.7
1090          1975      ZAIRE       Gecamines        100.0         -         24.5
536          1975     ZAIRE       Highway III          -        26.0         7.0
571          1975     ZAIRE       Rail-River II        -        26.0        11.6
624          1976     ZAIRE       Education II         -        21.0        20.6
625          1976     ZAIRE       Water Supply         -        21.5        11.8
660          1977     ZAIRE       Cotton I             -         8.0         7.4
697          1977     ZAIRE       Livestock II         -         8.0         7.7
710          1977     ZAIRE       DFC IV               -        10.0         5.0
796          1978     ZAIRE        Oil Palm            -         9.0 4/      9.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):            191.6      201.5
- of whiich has been repaid:          91.6         -          -
TOTAL now outstanding:                 100.0      201.5       111.5
Amount sold:                    54.5
- of which has been repaid  54.5
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA: 2/  100.0         201.5
TOTAL undisbursed:                      24.5       87.0       111.5
1/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Undisbursed balance of $565.74.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Fiscal                                  Type of          Amount in US$ Millions
Year            Obligor                Business        Loan      Equity      Total
1970     Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)         DFC               -       0.76       0.76
1979     Zaire Gulf Oil Company          Oil Company    2.50        -         2.50
1979     Zaire Petroleum Company         Oil Company    1.60        -         1.60
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                       4.0       0.76      4.86
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1090       Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
and EIB, consists of expanding the production facilities of the state-owned
Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an additional
120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year of cobalt in
the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Following the invasion of Kolwezi in May
1978, project implementation has been stopped. GECAMINES faces serious (i)
technical problems due to urgent rehabilitation needs and lack of sufficient
experienced staff; (ii) managerial problems due to political interference in
operational policies; and (iii) financial problems. Amendments to the loan
documents including determing a new closing date are expected to be negotiated
shortly to allow completion of essential works while postponing the procurement
or erection of certain equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 463     Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date: July 25, 1974; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Present Closing Date: June 30. 1979
Credit 710      Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: October 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC investment of
US$750,000 and an IDA credit of US$5 million. It started operating on July
1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. Credit 463 is ex-
pected to be fully disbursed shortly. It is expected that Credit 710 will
be committed well ahead of schedule. In May 1973, a Zairian General Manager,
assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded General
Manager. The institution has developed into a well run and capable develop-
ment bank, despite the policies of zairianization-retrocession which disrupted
in some cases the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE has recently
diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key economic
sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also decen-
tralized its operation and has recently opened two regional offices. In 1976,
the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the first Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFI;Th had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization.
Credit 398     Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project was designed to increase beef output in the Shaba region
and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE) through
the provision of technical support and funds for training agriculturalists.
Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly. Initially, a major con-
straint was the poor performance of the consulting firm selected to implement
the project, which led to its replacement in 1976. The management of ONDE
has tried to improve performance but limited managerial capacity, inadequate
performance of local and expatriate staff and lack of supervision capability
still constitute major problems. While technical results have improved in two
out of three ranches, the financial situation of the project has deteriorated
for lack of financial management and budgetary control. The project was
revised in January 1978 in paticular to develop a training program in animal
production and range management and to finance the foreign exchange element
of current expenditures on the ranches.



- 30 -
A?INEX II
Page 4 of 8
Credit 697      Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and the Canadian International Agency
The project aims at improving livestock productio.i in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitacttri of marketing and slaughter facilities.
Project start up has suffered from delays in the provision of counterpart
funds, supply shortages due to serious deterioration of the Kisangani-Bunia
road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary commodities, insuffi-
cient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays in setting up of
the training program financed by German Aid, but implementation is now progres-
sing satisfactorily. Constraints remain the very high costs in the project
area, compounding inflation in Zaire, the lack of establishoftent of minimum
prices for beef as agreed and the need to ensure the project's financial
autonomy through the setting up of a revolving fund. The ranch component has
not yet started as the planned transfer of the ranches from Kilomines to ONDE
has not taken place. The slaughterhouse component and the training program
are expected to start shortly.
Credit 660     Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 Million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981. Cofinanced by_Belgium
The project aimed at helping the Zairian Government to rehabilitate
cotton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the buying,
transportation, and ginning operations of the National Textile Fibers Authority
(ONAFITEX) in the project area. It also includes rehabilitation of the network
of roads linking the production areas. The project faces serious implementa-
tion problems. The Government dissolved ONAFITEX, the agency responsible for
project implementation on May 5, 1978 and IDA was not corns,lted prior to the
event. Although the Governmnent has made an effort to define interim arrange-
ments to allow project implementation to continue, the consequences of
ONAFITEX's dissolution for the project are far-reaching, and organization,
management, and financing arrangements require extensive revision. For the
present, project execution is largely at a standstill because the project
management team works in an uncertain situation without clear authority over
staff, facilities, or resources; the financial situation is unclear and ade-
quate budgetary provisions have not been made. Responsibility for overseeing
the project at the central government level is not clear. A recent mission
reviewed with the government is currently preparing detailed proposals for a
new regional company which would replace ONAFITEX for the Rlquateur region;
when details of new arrangements are agreed upon, the Credit Agreement and
related documents will be amended as appropriate. Some progress has been
made on the road component which is executed by the Bureau of Roads (OR).



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. 796-ZR     Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of May 2, 1978,
not yet effective; Cofinanced by AfD, BADEA, CCCE
The project consists of a five-year program to support the rehabil-
itation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for replanting
and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment, improvement
and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of additional staff,
and training of staff. Several conditions of effectiveness remain to be
fulfilled: signature of subsidiary loan agreements, signature of administra-
tion agreement, submission of statement on labor use to IDA by the Government,
and notification by cofinanciers that all conditions precedent to their first
disbursement other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement have
been fulfilled.
Credit 292      Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972;
Effective Date: September 11, 1972; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1975, Current Closing Date: June 30, 1979;
Cofinanced by UNDP, CIDA, FAC and USAID
The project consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen
highway administration and maintenance and to rehabilitate high-priority roads.
The project is substantially completed. The main institutional objective of
the project, the development of the Office des Routes, BR, established under
the first project, as an effective countrywide organization responsible for
highways, was achieved owing mainly to the efforts of its new Delegue-General
and notwithstanding the initially unsatisfactory performance of the consul-
tants. Rehabilitation work has encountered many difficulties such as cost
increases, shortage of Government funds, disruption due to Zairianization of
the contractors. Only about 1,000 kms of roads have been rehabilitated to
planned standards; the remaining 900 kms have been upgraded to standards
lower than originally envisioned. Changes in currency parities resulted in
a foreign exchange cost overrun of US$400,000 for civil works.
Credit 536      Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19,
1975; Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979; Cofinanced by UNDP, Belgium and France
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (BR),
by continuing to develop the local expertise in highway administration and
maintenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. Shortage of
local funds and foreign currency for capital and recurrent expenditures has
considerably hindered project implementation. The project was revised in 1978
to reduce the Government's financial contribution to the project by curtailing
road rehabilitation and feasibility studies and reallocating funds to finance
the most essential road improvements, fuel and spare parts. At the request
of the Government, a ferry maintenance program was later added to the project.
Technical assistance to OR is operating satisfactorily but the Government
continues to have difficulties in appointing suitable counterparts. OR's



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
overall maintenance operations in 1978 reached about 70% of the objectives,
despite inadequate budgetary allocations, which can be considered satisfactory.
The Department responsible for equipment maintenance and repair is severely
restricted by the shortage of spare parts and equipment utilization rate is
very low. Rehabilitation by contractor of the Kabinda-Lomami road is progres-
sing satisfactorily, but little progress has been made on the section to be
rehabilitated by force account due to the shortages of fuel during most of
last year and continuing shortages of construction materials.
Credit 255      River Transport; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: January 17, 1972; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1979; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a) re-
habilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c' rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e) a feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between
the mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports. The river agencies have
been set up as autonomous public entities, and most contracts for goods
and services under the Credit have been awarded. Physical implementation
however is slowed down by delays in completing: (a) a buoy tender for RFV,
due to the Government's failure to meet required local currency costs; and
(b) rehabilitation of navigation aids on the Kasai River for which a contract
was terminated and which is now to be implemented by RVF. Financial con-
straints and management shortcomings in the Government executing agencies
still delay project completion and impede the achievement of envisaged opera-
tional and financial objectives.
Credit 571      Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing for a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway im-
provements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings by the Regie des
Voies Fluviales; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study for
the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link.  Project implementatiM. was initially slow due
to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints. Since
March 1977 ONATRA has been increasingly under the? direction and control of a
team of expatriates, now numbering 75, including the Delegue General. All
procurement is now completed or underway.  ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport and in the shipyards; the railway (CFMK)
still suffers from parts shortages, ho';ever improvement is anticipated in the
near future. Overall project execution is satisfactory.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Credit 625     Water Supply Project; US$21.5 Million Credit of June 18,
1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976; ClosinR Date:
September 30. 1979; Cofinanced by ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production
and distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for the six cities, a
comprehensive training program, and feasibility studies for additional water
supply projects. REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply
and electricity in Zaire, is the executing agency. Construction works are
progressing slowly but satisfactorily mainly because of shortage of fuel and
building materials and transportation.  Construction of new facilities in the
six towns should be completed between May and August 1979. Rehabilitation
works are expected to) be completed by December 1979.
Credit 272      First Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17. 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
The project consisted of (a) the construction or rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions and facilities in order
to train teachers, inspectors, and directors for primary education, teachers
for secondary-level general and technical education, and middle-level indus-
trial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management study of the Ministry
of National Education to improve the effectiveness of its administration;
and (c) the caryying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to large price
increases after appraisal, the Government and IDA curtailed the scope of the
project in 1976. Physical implementation of two institutions is near comple-
tion; at the other two institutions, project implementation was interrupted by
thne recent events in Shaba but arrangements have been made to make up for the
lost time. Project completion is now expected by mid-1980.
Credit 624      Second Education Project; US$21 Million Credit of
December 28. 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of building and equipping five new rural
primary teacher training shools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of six
agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural insti-
tute, technical assistance and fellowships for the these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out
of preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. The
credit was not declared effective until late 1977, because the fLovernment's
request that a local autonomous architectural group be established within the
National Education Ministry to implement thte project.  The group's performance
to date has not been satisfactory but some progress is expected following
recent changes in staff. The preparation of architectural working drawings,



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
specifications, and bills of quantities for the first ro'up of institutions to
be financed under the project is well advanced, and the preparation of working
drawings for the remaining institutions is underway. The provision of counter-
part funds remains a problem. Substantial progress has been made in the
achievement of educational objectives. Because of implementation delays and
an unexpectedly high rate of inflation, however, the total cost of the project
substantially exceeds available funds. The Government has requested that the
project content be reduced in line with Government priorities. Emphasis would
be given to those components of the project designed to assist agricultural
development, namely, the Agricultural Techaic4l IviI.i,t-..-i4 ind the Higher
Institute of Agricultural Studies. Equipment would be provided to one exist-
ing secondary-level institute for the training of rural primary teachers.
This proposal is being reviewed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Prolect Data Sheet
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Project Identification:         July 1976
(b)  Project Preparation:             January 1977
(c)  Appraisal Mission:               July 1977
(d)  Follow-up Mission:               January 1978
(e)  Negotiations:                   December 1978
(f) Planned date of
Credit effectiveness:           August 1979
SECTION II
Special Bank Group Implementation Action
None.
SECTION III
Special Conditions
(a) Government will increase its budgetary allocation to the BR
to at least US$40 million equivalent per year, of which US$3
million equivalent would be in foreign exchange, supplemented
by such budgetary allocation as shall be necessary (para. 62).
(b) Government will prepare and furnish to the Association for
its approval prior to the end of 1979 and of 1980 the work
program of BR for 1980 and 1981, respectively (para. 59).
(c) Government will prepare by September 30, 1980, a five-year
plan for road improvement for the period 1982-1986 (para. 59).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) On the basis of specific availability and operation indices
agreed with the Association, Government will ensure adequate
availability of equipment, spare parts and fuel to mechanized
units of BR and will ensure the optimum use of the maintenance
facilities and services of these units. Government will also
ensure that ferries be maintained in operation (para. 59).
(e) Government will create a position within the administration
of BR, to be filled by a qualified expert, to review present
manual road maintenance practices and to recommend possible
improvements therein including proposals on appropriate tech-
nology (para. 59).
(f) Government will take such steps as shall be necessary
to ensure the prompt approval of contracts awarded to
contractors as well as the prompt payment to contractors
for works which are the responsibility of BR (para. 63).
Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement will be
subject to the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit and the Loan
Agreement between the Saudi Fund for Development and the Govern-
ment of Zaire (para. 71).
(b) That legislation satisfactory to the Association has been
adopted by Government ensuring that BR has full control over
its assets and the management of its day-to-day operations
(para. 59).



Cn'JteAL  A~~~~~~~~R  CASt    E~~~~~~flRff  -                                    A 
74 RE CE..
'CCNREEER                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I UT  AR
74     sc   O REQ MRT  U 
4'                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
Rt   g-L           MMREECRC to'1'
-BA P4 p w ap u4                                       AAI                         A 4 ERNRT
494-~~~-
p c L I    TI L
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NC~
I             PSt         F     0                           CCTR 
F             it>.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                  4~~~~~~
AON     A                                                                      CEIE6Ni  t
Ailfi~~~~~~*   o qE4C             * 
rm - s                                      ,.;                         ' -                                                             PR



