PILE  COPY                                  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. P-2330-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
TREE CROP DIVERSIFICATION (TEA) PROJECT
May 19, 1978
Thi dosnot h  a restricted dItrbuton and my be _d by ecipients dn,y in the erfemn"e Of
teir eflal duti. Its eoutents my *d othrwie be disdoed wihot World Bank aoatlon.






0  OMlCAL VSE ONLY
SRI LANKA
TREE CROP DIVERSIFICATION (TEA) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:                   US$4.5 million equivalent
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The project would be the Government's initial effort
in a long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify,
and settle degraded mid-country lands, mainly nation-
alized tea estates. It would provide financing for
diversification of about 11,500 ha of marginal tea
land, scrub land, or degraded forest, and would in-
clude establishment of about 4,500 small farms based
on mixed minor tree crops, mainly spices; some 1,300
of these farms would be provided with a dairy cow.
The project would provide the 27,000 settlers with
both regularly paid work opportunities in land devel-
opment and about 5,700 ha of developed homesteads,
with garden plots (0.2 ha) and farms (0.8-1.6 ha).
The entire settled area would be protected by soil
conservation measures. In addition, some 3,700 ha of
forest would be developed on a commercial basis with
fuelwood and timber, while about 2,200 ha would be
kept as conservation forest. Necessary social infra-
structure, including housing, water supply, and access
roads, would be provided at low cost. Project bene-
ficiaries would be displaced estate workers, landless
laborers, and unemployed youth with a current average
per capita income of less than US$60 equivalent per
annum.
Realization of expected benefits will depend on
development of the management and logistic capabil-
ities of the major implementing agency, the newly
established National Agricultural Diversification
and Settlement Authority (NADSA). Avoidance of
possible social friction and hardship will depend
on provision of effective relief to those displaced
estate workers who are not eligible for settlement
under the project.
Thbi document ha a rtrfctod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their o(Acl dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disckoSd without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
NADSA - Capital and           0.7       0.7        1.4
Operating Costs
Farm Development
Soil Conservation/
Conditioning and
Surveying                 0.5      0.1        0.6
Mixed Tree Crop Farms       0.7       0.1        0.8
Dairy Development           0.2       0.7        0.9
Cardamom Farms              0.2       0.0        0.2
Social Infrastructure         0.7       0.1        0.8
Forestry                      0.5       0.1        0.6
Total Base Cost               3.5       1.8        5.3
Physical Contingencies    0.4         0.1        0.5
Price Contingencies         0.6       0.1        0.7
Total Project Cost            4.5       2.0        6.5
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                           2.5       2.0        4.5
Government of Sri Lanka       2.0        -         2.0
Estimated
Disbursements:             IDA Fiscal Year   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
-----------US$ Million---------
Annual             0.3    1.3    1.6    0.9        0.4
Cumulative         0.3    1.6    3.2    4.1       4.5
Rate of Return:            16%
Appraisal Report:          No. 1936-CE, dated April 3, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A TREE CROP DIVERSIFICATION (TEA) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Sri Lanka for the equivalent of US$4.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a tree crop diversification
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues
and Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond that of other
countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health, and life
expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate, and mortality and population growth
rates have been declining. These 'impressive gains have been achieved despite
generally low output and employment growth. Per capita GDP growth was only
0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to 2.1% per annum in the
1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s. Throughout the 1960s
and the 1970s, these modest output gains were eroded by adverse terms of trade
trends. This disappointing performance has been accompanied by a disturbing
increase in the level of open unemployment. In the 1970s, while the labor
force has been growing at about 125,000 per year, employment has been rising
by about 85,000, much of it in unproductive jobs. The number of unemployed
has, therefore, been rising, and open unemployment is estimated at over one
million or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable
initial conditions. Compulsory primary education had been introduced as
early as 1901. The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time
of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult
literacy and life expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and
expanded in the post-Independence period through large expenditures on
social services and the food subsidy, which have accounted for two-fifths
to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures
have been financed by harnessing the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree
crops, tea, rubber, and coconut, which provided the Government with both an
easy revenue source and the foreign exchange earnings needed to pay for food
imports required to meet consumption requirements.
1/   This part is the same as the Part I under the Tree Crop Rehabilitation
(Tea) Project.



-2-
5.        There is no doubt that there are both measurable and non-measurable
economic benefits flowing from these improvements in health, nutrition, and
education. Of these, the most important ones are the decline in fertility
and the relatively low rate of urbanization. At the same time, there have
been some significant costs arising from the firm commitment of successive
governments to maintaining these social gains. The fiscal burden of these
expenditures has imposed a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's policy-
makers in their attempts to accelerate long-term growth. That inflexibility
has increased over time as growth slowed down and in particular, the ability
of the tree crop sub-sector to provide resources weakened as commodity prices
kept falling and productivity suffered due to inadequate incentives. Moreover,
the gains in education have had a negative impact in the form of large numbers
of educated unemployed who have posed a challenge to the established political
order. With political parties competing against each other to offer induce-
ments to the electorate, it has proved difficult for governments to focus
social expenditure programs more narrowly on specific groups living in poverty.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by 3.8% per annum, slightly above the 3.5% per annum recorded in the
first 12 years after Independence. This impressive performance masks a marked
deceleration in the growth of the productive sectors of the economy between
the 1960s and the 1970s. GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in the
1960s to 3.0% in the 1970-77 period. Agricultural growth fell from 3.4% to
1.9% in agriculture; from 6.2% to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the slow
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-fifths
of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily from
the mid 1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s, stagnated
in the 1970s. Poor weather, declining commodity prices, a rising effective
tax burden, and low producer returns, combined with the uncertainties caused
by a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75), depressed producer incentives and,
hence investment and production, to new lows. These problems were aggravated
by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which discriminated against tra-
ditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at 7.4% per annum in the 1964-70
period, slowed down to 0.7% per annum in the 1970-77 period. This decline
in yields and cropping intensities is attributable to a series of droughts
and a sharp deterioration in the institutional support for production pro-
grams. A bright spot on the agricultural scene was the rapid increase in
output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s. This represents gains in
acreage rather than yields, and is in response to the improved incentives
arising from a ban on imports introduced in 1970.
9.        The slowdown in manufacturing output in the 1970s was due to the
cumulative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange
shortages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for
a sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of



3
raw materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities,
and inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now accounts
for 66% of the gross value of production in organized industry.
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent for-
eign exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels
of saving and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's
terms of trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened
sharply in the mid 1970s following increases in the price of imported food,
fertilizer, and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's
total imports jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp in-
crease has, to some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (parti-
cularly of tea) since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports
and encouraged import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5%
per annum between 1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on
growth for an economy in which exports accounted for 30% of GDP in 1960, and,
at 22%, are still substantial today.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when adjusted
for the dual exchange rate, fell from 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 to 9% in 1971-76.
This deterioration in savings performance is largely explained by a decline
in public savings. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in the 1960s,
shrinking rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative. This poor
performance is attributable to the large and growing burden of subsidies and
transfers, which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing disparity
between import and officially-determined prices. Savings levels were also
adversely affected by the large hidden subsidy burden implicit in the failure
to recover costs from beneficiaries of irrigation and other infrastructure
projects. Private savings were adversely affected in the 1970s by political
uncertainties, a confiscatory tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-1976 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been a persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP) while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, not being given much encouragement. The
efficiency of investment has also been rather low due to both a misdirection
of investment and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments.
Thus, much of the investment in agriculture has been directed to paddy, to
the neglect of replanting in the tree crop sub-sector, resulting in an erosion
of the latter's production base. Even within paddy, the strategy pursued
emphasized costlier, more visible extensive development of the Dry Zone to
the neglect of cheaper, but less intensive, development. In the manufactur-
ing sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued to the neglect
of labor-intensive export-oriented production. Utilization of the potential
already established is uniformly low. This is reflected in low cropping
intensities and yields in the agricultural sector, and low-capacity utili-
zation in manufacturing.



-4-
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
zi-ited National Party won a large majority. In the relatively short period
it has been in office, it has embarked on a number of changes in the struc-
ture of Government and economic policies. On February 4, 1978, Sri Lanka
shifted from a Westminster style parliamentary system to a Presidential sys-
tem of government. In parallel, reorganization of local administration is
also under way. On the economic front, the Budget for 1978, introduced on
November 15, 1977, contains a number of policy initiatives designed to "pro-
vide a basis for strong and sustained growth." The explicit objectives
identified by the Government are a revival and resuscitation of the economy,
increased capacity utilization in the productive sectors, increased employ-
ment opportunities, the stimulation of savings and investment, and an improve-
ment in the balance of payments over the medium term. These objectives are
to be achieved through a shift in emphasis from direct controls to reliance
on the price mechanism, together with a restructuring of relative prices,
and an increased role for the private sector.
14.       The main thrust of the comprehensive economic reforms, in support
of which the IMF granted, in December 1977, a Stand-by Arrangement in the
amount of SDR 93 million, is to dismantle administrative controls over the
allocation of resources and to set realistic relative prices. On the external
front, this involved a major liberalization and restructuring of the external
trade and payments system supported by a reform of the exchange rate. Most
public sector monopolies in imports (with the exception of food and refined
petioleum) have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been reduced
to a short list of items. Most controls over invisibles transactions have
been relaxed. In order to ease the task of managing the external payments
position and reduce the bias against tree crop exports in favor of food im-
ports, the exchange rate has been unified and allowed to float on the basis
of underlying market forces at an initial level of Rs 16 = US$1.00.
15.       Import liberalization and the reform of the exchange rate required
corresponding adjustments of indirect taxes. A new import tariff structure
has been introduced. The Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially
lowered and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and ex-
change rate. Export duties on traditional tree crops have been increased to
mop up the bulk of the additional receipts flowing to this sector as a
result of the unification of the exchange rate.
16.       In order to reduce the drain on resources caused by the sharp in-
crease in the cost to the budget of the food subsidy following the unification
of the exchange rate, the rice subsidy has been confined to households with
a monthly income of Rs 300 (US$19) or less. This implies that roughly half
the population will no longer be entitled to the ration and will have to rely
on the open market. To compensate those adversely affected, wages and salaries
have been increased, provision was made for a dole of Rs 50 per month for the
unemployed (which has so far not been put into effect), and the procurement
price of paddy has been raised by 21%. Further, price adjustments arising
from the new exchange rate and wage increases have been deferred in the case
of wheat flour, fertilizer, petroleum, public transport, and infants' milk
food. However, price controls have ended for most commodities, and public
corporations are to be allowed more autonomy in pricing and distribution
policies.



- 5 -
17.       The reform of the exchange rate, combined with corresponding adjust-
ments in import and export tax rates, is expected to result in a substantial
increase, by 75%, in Government revenues in 1978 over 1977 levels. Expendi-
tures have also risen, partly due to the exchange rate unification and to
increased subsidies and transfers designed to cushion consumers from the impact
of the increases in prices resulting from the exchange reform, the reduction
in scope of the rice subsidies and the removal of price controls over a wide
range of goods. The combined impact of the various budgetary measures has
resulted in a current account surplus of about Rs 650 million, permitting the
Government to increase allocations to the capital budget.
18.       An adequate response of investment, production, exports, and employ-
ment to the major realignment of relative prices introduced in the Budget of
1978 is contingent on a well-thought-out medium-term development strategy.
This is recognized by the Government, which is beginning the process of iden-
tifying the steps necessary to tackle the constraints facing agricultural out-
put, industrial efficiency, and exports. The capital budget for 1978 repre-
sents a determined effort to raise the level of public investment. Although
the sectoral allocations in the budget mainly reflect the momentum of contin-
uation works, the process of allocating financial and manpower resources to
three new key programs has already begun. These are: (i) a significant
acceleration in the pace of implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program; (ii) a new export processing zone north of Colombo; and (iii) devel-
opment of the Greater Colombo urban area.
19.       The Government has also begun the process of integrating these
policies and programs into a medium-term investment program. In order to
streamline the machinery for planning, the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs has been merged with the Ministry of Finance. The enlarged Ministry
has been entrusted with the task of preparing a medium-term investment program
by the autumn of 1978. A review of sector programs and policies is also
under way. Project preparation capabilities, which have been a major weakness
in the past, are to be bolstered by a new UNDP-financed technical assistance
Umbrella Project with IDA as Executing Agency. There are a number of parallel
bilateral technical assistance programs involved in similar efforts.
20.       The ability of the Government to manage this period of transition
in economic policies is greatly enhanced by a relatively strong short-term
economic situation. GDP in 1977 rose by 4.4%. This was due mainly to a 9%
increase in agricultural output and a 4% increase in manufacturing and serv-
ices. Paddy production reached a record high of 82 million bushels due to
favorable weather conditions. Tea production recovered from a low of 433
million lbs in 1976 to 460 million lbs in 1977. Rubber production also
rose to 370 million lbs from 345 million lbs. However, coconut output fell
in 1977, reflecting the delayed impact of drought in 1976. With the money
supply expanding rapidly (33% annual growth through June 1977), prices have
remained under pressure despite the improvement in supplies. However, there
has been a substantial improvement in the external accounts. Export earnings
in 1977 rose by a record 37%. This was due in the main to a 69% increase in
earnings from tea, brought about by record tea prices. Rubber and coconut



-6-
exports also benefited from higher unit values and there was a further en-
couraging growth in non-traditional exports. Despite various import-inducing
policies, such as the March 1977 revaluation and record food imports, imports
grew much more slowly. As a result, a current account surplus emerged for the
first time since 1965. With a substantial net foreign exchange inflow, gross
foreign exchange reserves have risen sizably from US$92 million at the end of
1976 to US$290 million at the end of 1977. Part of this reserve build up
represents a US$64 million drawing against the SDR 93 million IMF Stand-by
Arrangement.
21.       The task of external management will be greatly eased in the short
term by the buildup in reserves and the relatively favorable prices for tra-
ditional exports. However, Sri Lanka's current account deficit is likely to
widen sharply in the coming years for four seasons. First, the new policy of
import liberalization will permit industry and trade to replenish depleted
stocks and meet some of the large unsatisfied demand for imports of consumer
goods intermediates and spare parts. Second, the substantial rehabilitation
requirements of the economy will gradually begin to be addressed. Third, as
the Government implements its medium-term investment program, major new in-
vestment efforts will place an additional burden on the balance of payments.
Finally, the increased volume of imports will be set within a background of
deteriorating terms of trade in the medium term, as tea prices decline in real
terms and foodgrain import costs rise. The success of the program of economic
reforms instituted in November 1977, thus depends heavily on an increase in
aid flows. Such an increase will help discourage excessive speculative im-
ports, by strengthening in the eyes of speculators, the Government's ability
to persist with its import liberalization policy. It will also enable the
Government to desist from more costly forms of borrowings. Most important,
increased concessional aid will be needed to supplement the Government's
efforts at domestic and external resource mobilization in support of higher
levels of investment spending. In this context, local financing will be
needed, particularly in the early years, before domestic resource mobilization
efforts begin to gather momentum.
22.       Sri Lanka's dependence on foreign aid has risen substantially in
recent years. Net aid transfers have gone up from about US$40 million in
1970 to US$139 million in 1977, with gross aid rising from US$63 million to
US$199 million. About four-fifths of net aid comes from member countries and
institutions of the Sri Lanka Aid Group (at the fourteenth meeting of the Aid
Group in May 1978, aid indications amounted to about US$342 million). Despite
the improvement in export earnings, the debt service ratio (inclusive of short-
term borrowings and IMF repurchases) remains at 21%. However, it is expected
to decline sharply in 1979 as amortization and interest payments reflect the
fall in the last two years in short- and medium-term borrowings.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
23.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and thirteen credits totalling US$120.3 million (net of cancellations and



- 7 -
exchange adjustments) in support of 19 projects. About 30% of Bank Group
assistance has been for power, 50% for agriculture (irrigation and agricul-
tural and dairy development), and the remainder for development finance company
operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry), and water supply. Three early power loans, the
credit for the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project I, and the program credit
together with the recently completed Lift Irrigation and Drainage and Land
Reclamation credits have been satisfactorily completed and fully disbursed.
Of the two loans made to the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC),
US$6.8 million of the US$12.0 million available was cancelled by DFCC due to
a sudden deterioration in the private investment climate resulting from a
change of governments in 1970.  Under an ongoing IDA credit of US$4.5 million
made to the DFCC in 1975, sub-projects for the total credit amount have been
approved. A second IDA credit of US$8.0 million to DFCC and an equity invest-
ment by the IFC of about US$199,000 equivalent in the DFCC were approved by the
Board early in FY78. An IFC non-revolving line of credit of US$2.0 million to
the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for onlending to private small- and medium-
scale industrial enterprises has also been approved in FY78. At the request of
the Borrower, a loan/credit for highways was cancelled in 1970, after disburse-
ment of US$0.8 million of the credit, following the Government's decision to
make major changes in the scope of the project. An IFC investment of US$3.25
million to the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon) was approved by IFC's Board
of Directors in January, 1970, but cancelled the same year because Government
approval for the project was withdrawn. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations as of April 30, together with notes on. the execution
of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on rice/flour imports, and to improve productivity in the
tree crops sub-sector. Projects to support industry and basic infrastructure
are also included. The Bank Group has agreed to assist the Government of
Sri Lanka to accelerate the development of the Mahaweli Ganga Catchment Area
by helping to develop an implementation strategy and to coordinate external
assistance for project preparation and implementation. It is expected that
significant investment opportunities for IDA and other Aid Group members will
result. A proposed project for tea rehabilitation has been appraised and is
expected to be presented to the Board shortly. Appraisal has been largely
completed for an integrated rural development project for the Kurunegala
District, and preparation is under way for a road maintenance project. In
addition, projects in other fields, including irrigation and drainage, and
rainfed farming, are being prepared for possible IDA financing.
25.       The Bank Group presently accounts for nearly 13% (Bank, 3%; IDA,
10%)of Sri Lanka's total external debt outstanding, and about 5% (almost
totally Bank) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share
in total external debt will increase to about 17% by 1980 (with the Bank's
share declining to about 2%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service
will show a slight decline.



PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE TREE CROP SUB-SECTOR
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
26.       Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy, accounting
for 37% of GDP, over one-half of total employment, over four-fifths of export
earnings, and a large share of public revenue. Approximately 80% of the
country's total population lives in rural areas. Thus, economic growth in
the country depends largely upon performance in the agricultural sector.
During the 1960s, considerable progress was made in increasing food produc-
tion as Government pursued a policy of reducing dependence on imports. Paddy
production expanded from 840,000 tons to 1.6 M tons (6.5% per year) per year
during the 1960s, as a result of: area expansion (175,000 ha), increasing
yields (from 725 kg/ha to 1,050 kg/ha), and increased cropping intensity.
After 1970, area expansion continued at a similar rate, but yields and cropping
intensity declined so that production grew at only 0.7% per year. Apart from
generally poor weather the major reason for the fall off in productivity was
the sharp deterioration in institutional support programs aggravated by farm
power and fertilizer shortages arising from foreign exchange constraints.
27.       In the early 1960s, the tree crop sub-sector accounted for over 90%
of the value of merchandise exports. During the 1960s, production grew at
only 1% per annum, and that mainly from rubber which was benefiting from the
substantial replanting in the early 1950s. Since 1970, conditions in the
tree crop sub-sector have further deteriorated, with output of tea, rubber,
and coconut all tending downward although in 1977 there was an increase in
tea and rubber production (para 20). Declining quality has also been evident,
especially in the tea industry. The disappointing production trends in the
tree crop sub-sector, although also influenced by drought, were primarily a
reflection of declining profitability associated with lower prices and high
taxes, the uncertainties associated with Government's land reforms, and in-
adequate foreign exchange allocations for vital inputs such as fertilizer
and spares and replacements for machinery and vehicles.
28.       The importance of the traditional export crops (tea, rubber, and
coconut) lies not only in the fact that they are the source of 70 to 90% of
export earnings, but also in their vital role in all aspects of the economy:
these three crops account for about 45% of agricultural employment, 40% of
the value added in the agricultural sector, and in addition, are expected to
contribute about 50% of government revenues according to the 1978 budget.
Tea alone accounts for approximately one-half of the value of the country's
total merchandise exports.
29.       In the tree crop sub-sector, besides tea, rubber and coconuts, the
country produces numerous other crops, such as cinnamon, cardamom, citronella,
cashews, cocoa, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and coffee. They are commonly referred
to as minor export crops and are all, with the exception of cashews, Wet Zone
crops. The value added generated by these crops is about Rs 125 M, and they
provide employment for over 10,000 persons. Performance of the minor export
crop sector has been encouraging.  From 1970 to 1976, the value added of minor



export crops increased by about 150% in constant prices, but their contribu-
tion to GNP is still less than 1%. This portion of the sector has substantial
potential for future development.
Land Reform
30.        Sri Lanka has undergone an extensive land reform which has had a
great impact on agriculture, particularly the tree crop sub-sector. The first
phase of land reform, initiated in 1972, limited private holdings to: (i) 25
acres (10.12 ha) if exclusively paddyland, or (ii) 50 acres (20.24 ha) if not
exclusively paddyland, with paddyland not to exceed 25 acres. In the first-
phase takeovers, implemented in 1973 through 1975, about 225,000 ha of land
were vested in the Land Reform Commission (LRC). Of this, about 60% was under
tree crops, which included about 23% of the total tea area, 15% of the rubber
area, and about 10% of the coconut area. The State Plantations Corporation
(SPC), under the Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI), was given about 40
of the larger, well-maintained tea and rubber estates, covering about 10% of
the tree crop land taken over. The management of most of the remainder was
placed in the hands of cooperatives.
31.        In the second phase, initiated in October 1975, all land owned by
Sri Lankan and foreign companies, which included the country's major tea and
rubber estates, was vested in the LRC. About 65,000 ha were assigned to SPC
and nearly 95,000 ha to the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) which
was established for that purpose under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
(MAL). The compensation terms of foreign-owned plantations were agreed in
1976, and payments have commenced. Compensation negotiations for rupee com-
pany and private estates are still in progress.
32.       As a result of the second phase of the land reform, about 60% of the
tea estate land, 30% of the rubber estate land, and 10% of the coconut estate
land is now vested in the LRC. In late 1977 the management of much of this
land was significantly rationalized. JEDB was transferred from MAL to MPI,
and several organizations and cooperatives, which had mismanaged the estates
they received under the first phase of Land Reform were disbanded and their
estates divided between JEDB and SPC.
Government Tree Crop Sub-sector Strategy
33.       The Government gives high priority to development of the tree crop
sub-sector as a part of the national economy. Efforts to streamline the orga-
nization and management of the nationalized tea and rubber lands have been
made recently or are currently under way. The Government has made efforts to
improve policies on recruitment, staffing, and compensation of personnel for
SPC and JEDB to promote flexible and commercially-oriented operations. To
provide the Government with a policy framework in the tree crop sub-sector on
sales and export taxes, and on subsidies for fertilizer and replanting, a
"Tree Crop Incentives Study", a component of the Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 595-CE), is presently under way. To formulate future policies
for the tea industry on such questions as desirable production levels, organi-
zation, management, diversification, replanting, marketing strategies, etc.,



- 10 -
the Government, with the assistance of the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), began work in January 1978 on an overall Tea Master Plan ex-
pected to be completed in early 1979. The Master Plan will develop recom-
mendations on industry structure, fiscal policy, and investment programs and
priorities. To promote production of minor export crops, the Department of
Minor Export Crops, responsible mainly for minor crops research and extension,
was established in 1973 in the Ministry of Plantation Industries.
34.       In addition to rehabilitation policies for the tree crop sub-sector,
the Government has declared that it intends to intensify its efforts at agri-
cultural diversification for lands which are currently marginal or abandoned.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, through its Agricultural Diversification
Division (ADD), has been entrusted with the responsibility for implementing
this effort. ADD has specifically been assigned the task of: (i) preparing
an inventory of lands suitable for diversification; (ii) assigning development
priorities to the inventory; and (iii) preparing future diversification pro-
jects. The executing agency for these programs of rehabilitation, diversifi-
cation, and settlement of degraded lands is the National Agricultural Diver-
sification and Settlement Authority (NADSA) which was established in early
1978 under the State Agricultural Corporations Act of 1972.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project would be Government's initial effort in its
long-range program to rehabilitate, diversify, and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The project was identified and pre-
pared by the Agricultural Diversification Division (ADD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Lands, with the assistance of the UNDP and the FAO/IBRD Co-
operative Program (CP). At the request of the Government, the project was
appraised by IDA in May 1976, but it was found to be in need of significant
modifications before its justification could be assessed. After substantial
improvements were made in the project concept, the project was reappraised in
October/November 1977. A report entitled "Sri Lanka - Tree Crop Diversifi-
cation (Tea) Project (No. 1936a-CE) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 17 to
April 21, 1978. The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. A. Mohamed,
Additional Director, External Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
36.       The Government of Sri Lanka issued, in early 1978, a policy state-
ment on diversification of marginal tea and rubber lands and is developing a
national program to diversify substantial amounts of these lands to other
productive uses. The project, which would constitute the Government's first
pilot effort under that program, has as its major objectives to:
(a)  develop an institution, the National Agricultural
Diversification and Settlement Authority (NADSA), which
can implement a program of rehabilitation, diversification,
and settlement, by landless families, of degraded lands,
mainly nationalized tea estates;



- 11 -
(b) stem the environmental destruction that has occurred from
soil erosion under uneconomic tea by introducing suitable
farming and land use systems in the project area; and
(c) increase national agricultural production and income by
rehabilitation and development of degraded and abandoned lands.
37.       The project area is situated in three catchments in the densely pop-
ulated mid-country in the vicinity of Kandy, some 90 km northeast of Colombo.
The cultivatable area of the three catchments amounts to about 42,000 ha, while
the project works would be carried out on 61 non-contiguous tea estates total-
ling about 11,500 ha. The past neglect of the tea estates and the difficult
topography have led to serious soil erosion problems. Unemployment, estimated
at 30%, has also been rising due to weakening employment opportunities on the
estates. Some 7,000 people, living both on the estates and in surrounding
villages, are employed on the 61 project estates as laborers, about half of
them women tea pluckers. The average estate family income is estimated at
only Rs 3,000 (US$188) per annum.
38.       The proposed four-year project would implement the diversification
of about 11,500 ha and would settle about 4,500 landless families on newly
established small farms based on mixed minor tree crop production. Some 1,300
of these farms would also be provided with a dairy cow. As a result of the
project, about 4,900 ha of scrub land, 4,600 ha of marginal or abandoned tea
land, and 1,800 ha of degraded forest would be diverted to more productive
uses while about 180 ha of existing high yielding clonal tea would remain
under small-holdings. The project would provide 27,000 people with both
regularly paid work opportunities in land development and settlement on about
5,700 ha of developed homesteads, with garden plots (0.2 ha) and farms (0.8-
1.6 ha). The entire settled area would be protected by soil conservation
measures. In addition, some 3,700 ha of forest would be developed on a com-
mercial basis with fuelwood and timber, while about 2,200 ha would be kept
as conservation forest. Necessary social infrastructure, including housing,
water supply, and access roads, would be provided for the settlements at a
low cost. It was agreed that the Government would take measures acceptable
to IDA to safeguard water supply systems, built under the project, against
waterborne diseases (DCA, Section 3.10).
39.       The project would establish two types of mixed tree crop farms;
about 2,600 Lower Altitude (below 750 m) Mixed Tree Farms of 0.8-1.0 ha each
and about 1,300 Higher Altitude (between 750 and 1,000 m) Mixed Tree Farms of
1.3 ha each. Similar types of mixed tree farms are found in the catchment
areas in which the project is located. Farms developed under the project
would be improved through better planting materials and agricultural practices,
a balancing of shade requirements, and by introduction of a greater proportion
of high value species. These tree crop farms would include inter alia, banana,
papaya, coconuts, avocado, coffee, nutmeg, cloves, pepper, and ginger. The
mix of the many different species, including both food crops and cash crops,
would spread the income of the settlers evenly over the year and would protect
the settlers against the adverse effects of international and domestic price
fluctuations. In addition to mixed tree crop farms, the project would



- 12 -
establish 390 Cardamom farms on 705 ha of degraded forest lands, and the
pieservation of some 180 ha of vegetatively propagated tea in the area as
tea smallholdings. Each participating family would be provided with a small
homestead plot of 0.2 ha to grow vegetables. While providing the basis for
improved livelihood for settlers, the farms would constitute an efficient
biological system of soil conservation and regeneration. Experts would be
employed by NADSA (PA, Section 2.06) to assist in carrying out the project
and especially to advise on variety selection, processing, and marketing of
the most important spices (especially ginger, pepper, and cardamom) to be grown
under the project.  This would be done through short-term visits expected to
amount to a total of 12 man-months (US$96,000 including transport charges).
Project Organization and Management
40.       The National Agricultural Diversification and Settlement Authority
(NADSA) operates under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands and is financed
through Government budget appropriations. Overall responsibility for imple-
mentation of the project rests with a seven member Board appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture and Lands. The chief executive of the NADSA is the
General Manager, who is responsible for all operational matters and reports
directly to the Board, which is expected to meet at least quarterly to review
progress. The Board members and the General Manager of the Authority have
been appointed and most of the key officers of the operating staff have been
recruited.
41.       NADSA would be responsible for all aspects of overall management
of the project, including production of planting material, soil conservation
measures, establishment of the farms and forests, and social infrastructure
construction. It is composed of an Operations Department, a Support Services
Department, and a small technical unit to assist the General Manager. The
Operations Department has three Area Operations Divisions and a nursery unit.
Under the Area Operations Division the key management figures at the field
level would be three Area Operations Officers in charge of 25 Field Opera-
tions Officers who, in turn, would each be responsible for managing an average
of 180 settler families. The three Area Operations Officers and a Nursery
Officer would be senior estate superintendents or agricultural university
graduates with considerable experience in organizing a large labor force. The
Field Operations Officers would be responsible for coordination and management
of all project activities, including the ones where technical expertise would
be provided by specialized agencies. The NADSA Planning and Program Control
Officer and Chief Technical Officer would be the key administrators respon-
sible for day-to-day project monitoring and supervision.
42.       The Soil Conservation Division and the Forest Department of MAL
would be responsible for planning and supervising all technical aspects of the
soil conservation and forest component. At field level, the actual work would
be done by the prospective settlers managed by NADSA staff and assisted by
staff of the respective agency. Plot demarcation would be undertaken by the
Survey Department, and the dairy component of the project would, in turn, be
managed by the Project Technical Unit (PTU) of IDA Dairy Development Project
(Cr. 504-CE). The PTU would be responsible for the importation and rearing of



- 13 -
heifers, processing of loan applications for cows and all follow-up activity
on dairying. The dairy sector is currently being reorganized on the basis of
farmer owned Dairy Cooperarive Societies and Milk Unions along the lines of
the successful AMUL-model (Kaira District) developed in India. Assurances
were obtained (DCA, Section 3.04) that, before dairy animals are sold to
farmers, but in any event by July 1, 1981, the Government would establish
dairy cooperative societies with by-laws acceptable to IDA. In general, the
specialized departments and agencies assisting in implementing the various
components of the project have already established substantial professional
experience in their respective fields, and no specific problems are foreseen
in the technical implementation of these components. For the purpose of in-
tegrating the plans of the above-mentioned specialized agencies into an over-
all plan, the agencies would prepare detailed annual work plans, and submit
them to NADSA for approval. Necessary additional staff, who would work full
time on the project (DCA, Section 3.09), and vehicles and operating funds
would be provided through NADSA to these organizations under the project.
43.       The project as designed consists of two phases, a development phase
(3 years) and a consolidation phase (3 years). Although all Project lands
would come under control of NADSA at the start of the development phase
(DCA, Section 5.01(b)), diversification would not begin simultaneously on all
of them and NADSA would not be equipped to continue routine estate management.
Therefore, the Government organizations currently managing the lands not imme-
diately needed for diversification will continue to do so until the lands are
needed for project development. The development phase would be characterized
by the establishment of homesteads and farms and the implementation of the
social infrastructure and forest components; these would be entirely under the
responsibility of NADSA. This phase would end with the allocation of farms to
settlers, and assurances were obtained that this would be accomplished by July
1, 1981 (DCA, Section 3.08). The consolidation phase would strengthen the
accomplishments under the development phase by providing support for the newly
established farmers through the sixth year of implementation (PA, Section 3.04).
During this phase NADSA would gradually withdraw from the project area and
leave it entirely when the tree crops have come into bearing. In the process
responsibility for support and services would be turned over to existing
agricultural service institutions in the area (e.g. Forest Department, Depart-
ment Minor Export Crops, Department of Agriculture). IDA's involvement in the
project would extend over the development phase plus the first year of the
consolidation phase.
44.       Settler selection would also be a two-stage process.  First, project
settlers would be selected from the following categories listed in the order
of priority: (i) citizens who are workers on estates in the project area and
who as a result of the project would be unemployed (para 60); (ii) landless
families from villages in the catchments; and (iii) unemployed youth from the
project catchments. At the end of year one, these eligible settlers will be
given, on a temporary lease, a homestead consisting of 0.2 ha of land on
which a house would have been constructed. The second stage of selection will
occur at the end of the development phase (project year 3) when those initially
selected settlers who had accepted and satisfactorily completed at least 80%



- 14 -
of the jobs offered to them by NADSA (DCA, Section 3.08 and Schedule 3) would
become permanent settlers. Farms developed under the project would then be
allocated to the permanent settlers.
45.       Settlers' income in the development phase of the project will be
mostly from wages paid by NADSA for work on project tasks. In the consoli-
dation phase, farm income is expected to come mainly from relatively slow-
developing tree crops while at the same time development job opportunities
under the project would decrease. Although projections indicate that settlers'
incomes would be adequate over the consolidation phase of the project, it is
necessary to ensure the availability of additional assistance should it be
necessary. Assurances were obtained that NADSA would collect income data at
least twice a year (PA, Section 2.07), and if family incomes were found to be
below Rs 3,600, in constant 1978 Rupees, (US$225 per annum), the Government
would take necessary measures, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure
that settlers have the financial ability to continue to develop their farms
(DCA, Section 3.05).
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total project costs are estimated at US$6.5 M equivalent, in-
cluding about US$0.1 M in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component
would be about US$2.0 M or about 31% of incremental total project cost. The
major elements included in the cost estimate are the operational costs of NADSA
(US$1.4 M) the inclusion of which is justified because NADSA, that is to play
a key role in the Government's diversification program, is a new institution
which needs to be built up; farm development including soil conservation and
establishment of mixed tree crop and dairy farms (US$2.5 M); construction of
social infrastructure (US$0.8 M); and forestry works (US$0.6 M). Physical
contingencies of 15% have been applied to all labor requirements, and 10% to
materials, equipment and operating expenditures, totalling US$0.5 M. The
estimated price increases over the implementation period amount to US$0.7 M or
13% of the base costs including the physical contingencies. Works estimates
are based on detailed quantity estimates provided by the various specialized
agencies, while the unit prices for equipment and materials are quotations of
December 1977.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of US$4.5 M would finance about 70% of the
total project cost, net of taxes and duties. This would cover fully the for-
eign exchange costs as well as US$2.5 M of local costs (para 21). The Govern-
ment would provide for the remaining local costs of US$2.0 M which, together
with the proceeds of the credit, would be allocated as a grant (DCA, Section
3.01(b)), under the regular budget to NADSA. NADSA would reimburse, as neces-
sary, the Soil Conservation Division, the Forestry Department and the National
Livestock Board to meet project-related expenditures.
48.       It was agreed (DCA, Section 3.07) that the Government would, with
due regard to the settlers' ability to pay, take all measures necessary to
recover a part of project costs through the collection of charges which are
satisfactory to the Association. Project costs would be recovered under the
Sale of State Land Law of 1973, in equal annual installments over a 20-year



- 15 -
period.  The amount of annual payment will vary according to type of farm from
US$40 for the small tea farms to US$140 for the cardamom farms. This level of
charges from settlement farms plus government revenues from forest land would
result in recovery of about 80% of the total project costs in nominal terms;
if inflation were to be 7% per annum, the cost recovery ratio would be 55%.
Although full cost recovery might be possible, the following considerations
favor the proposed rate of recovery: (i) the settlers' current absolute level
of income is very low; and (ii) even at full development, settlers' incomes are
not expected to exceed the national average family income. The operating and
maintenance costs for water supply, roads and other related facilities would be
small, and are expected to be covered either by the settlers directly or through
the Village Councils -- the local bodies responsible for maintenance of social
infrastructure facilities.
Procurement
49.        Procurement under the project would be in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. NADSA would be responsible for all procurement activities. Since
further proliferation of makes of imported tractors and trailers (US$0.40 M)
and vehicles (US$0.23 M) would create additional problems of maintenance and
repairs, procurement for these items would be through competitive bidding ad-
vertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA.
There are enough local firms and representatives of foreign firms to ensure a
sufficient degree of competition and reasonable prices. Small tools, and sur-
vey and office equipment (US$0.18 M) would be procured by prudent shopping
following local procedures. These items are expected to be procured in small
batches over the life of the project and would not be suitable for ICB.
50.       The import of cattle (US$0.9 M) for the dairy component of the proj-
ect would be organized by the Project Technical Unit (PTU) of the National
Livestock Board, MAL. Because of the wide variation in breeds, types and
adaptability of animals available, and the disease situation in supplying
countries, proposals would be obtained from at least three countries free from
foot and mouth disease that can supply the cattle required, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Planting materials, under the afforestation
component, would be procured directly by the Forest Department of MAL by
negotiated purchases after quotations have been solicited from at least two
suppliers.
51.       All project works, including construction of access roads, housing,
water supply, soil conservation, planting of homestead plots, farms and forest
would be carried out directly by NADSA, using prospective settlers as labor
for the project. Any skilled labor requirements that cannot be met from the
pool of settlers would be provided by contracting local craftsmen; such con-
tracts would be small and not suitable for ICB.
52.       In order to expedite project implementation, NADSA has prepared
tender documents for vehicles, tractors, and trailers for which retroactive
financing of up to US$0.5 million is recommended (DCA, Schedule 1, para 4).



- 16 -
Disbursements
53.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be made for:
(i) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly-imported goods; (ii) 60% of
expenditures for goods procured locally; (iii) 100% of the ex-factory price
of goods manufactured locally; (iv) 50% of project-related expenditures for
salaries of staff and operating costs of NADSA, Soil Conservation Division,
Forestry Department, and PTU; (v) 60% of expenditures for civil works and land
development; and (vi) 100% of expenditures for consultants. Disbursements for
force account work would be made every quarter against a physical works pro-
gress report and statement of expenditure provided by the Government.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The proposed project constitutes a first step in the Government's
program to diversify marginal or abandoned lands to other agricultural uses.
It would help to establish an institutional structure for planning and
implementation of further diversification and in the project area would:
(i) increase agricultural production; (ii) reduce unemployment and under-
employment; (iii) improve real incomes and income distribution; and
(iv) improve land utilization and foster rehabilitation of degraded lands.
55.       The project would increase the exportable surplus of spices and
coffee and reduce the import of milk products and fuel oil. The increase in
annual production due to the project at full development of the tree crops in
1990 would include inter alia, 1,300 tons of pepper, 600 tons of ginger, 400
tons of cardamom, 100 tons of cloves, and 300 tons of coffee. This production
would constitute 5% of the international pepper trade and less than 6% for any
of the other spices, with coffee production less than 1% of the international
coffee trade. Projected prices indicate that Sri Lanka will be able to export
these quantities profitably without difficulties or adverse effect on world
market psices. The amount of forestSy products would increase per year by
35,000 m of eucalyptus and 13,000 m of pine. The annual farmgate value of
the minor tree crop production is estimated at full development at about
US$2.5 M, while the value of milk and forestry products (excluding pines)
would amount to US$0.9 M. The project's net foreign exchange benefit, after
deducting the cost of imported fertilizers, would amount to US$2.9 M per
annum by 1990.
56.       The project's overall weighted economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated at about 16% on the entire project cost. The economic rate of
return is estimated to be 16% for the Settlement Component, the cost of which
is $5.7 M, and 15% for the Forestry Component, the cost of which is $0.8 M.
Sensitivity tests indicate that the project would remain viable even in the
event of adverse conditions. If there is a two-year delay in realization of
project benefits because soil rehabilitation turns out to take longer than
was expected, the ERR would drop to 13%.
57.       The project catchment areas are currently characterized by severe
unemployment owing to declining employment opportunities on tea estates and
increasing population. The project would provide direct employment to about



- 17 -
4,500 households (about 27,000 persons) in the lower 40% income bracket whose
average per capita income is less than US$60 per annum. The project would
help raise their per capita income to about US$125 per annum by 1990. Without
the project, 4,800 ha of tea lands would be abandoned by 1985 creating another
3,300 unemployed households or 8% of the population of the catchment areas.
The project would reverse that trend and reduce migration to urban areas.
58.       The benefits from the social infrastructure are largely non-
quantifiable, but would satisfy the essential needs of the settlement popula-
tion, i.e. shelter, safe and adequate water supply, and access to the area's
basic road network and services nearby. Upgrading of water supply would have
a beneficial impact on the health situation of the people by reducing the
incidence of water-borne diseases, still relatively common in the area. The
planned community development, by concentrating housing into clusters and im-
proving access to services, would also constitute a major step in the Govern-
ment's policy to increase the viability and attractiveness of settlement schemes.
59.       The project would have a highly beneficial impact on the natural
environment of the area through land rehabilitation and soil conservation.
Without the project, soil erosion would continue at an accelerating pace,
making future efforts at rehabilitation very difficult and costly, and greatly
reducing the possibility of continued agricultural use of the project area.
60.       Project risks are of thr.ee types:  economic, institutional, and
social. The economic risks consist primarily to commodity prices being lower
than projected and lower yields due to weather, plant diseases, and pest
attack. These will be reduced by diversifying production in such a manner
that none of the commodities would contribute more than 30% to the project's
economic benefits or 35% to any settler's family income. The institutional
risk arises from the fact that the project organization, NADSA, is new and
there are inevitable uncertainties regarding its operating efficiency.  How-
ever, the staff is being carefully chosen with a view to ensuring adequate
experience in tree crops and handling of a large labor force. A social risk
arises from the fact that only two-thirds of the 3,000 displaced estate workers
are now Sri Lankan citizens and are eligible for selection as settlers under
the project. The remainder are Indian Tamils who have not applied for Sri
Lankan citizenship. Since there is a risk of social friction and hardship for
these ineligible workers, assurances were obtained that Government would pro-
vide relief to those displaced estate workers not eligible for settlement
under the project either through relocation to other estates or through
accelerated repatriation (DCA, Section 3.02) under the existing agreement
between the Indian and Sri Lankan Governments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government of
Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the National Agricultural Diversification and Settlement
Authority, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness for the IDA
credit include: (i) execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of NADSA;
and (ii) the transfer of control over the lands included in the Project to
NADSA (para 43).
63.        I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 19, 1978



Annex 1
Page T of 4 pages
SRI LANKA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA(iTNOUK#4N-- - - -- - - ---)  
-           -                                  SISI LAUA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOIAL       05.6                                     MOST RECENT
AG&IC.      24.2                      1960       197?t   ESTIMATE        TANZANIA       PHILIPPINES   MALAYSIA*r
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    80.0    130.0   200.0).                100.0*     230.07      440.0*
____________________
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           9.9      12.5      13.8).              12.9)a.    36.9        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY.
PER SQUARE KM.                     151.0     191.0    210.0)a               14.0     .123.0        33.0
PER SQ. KP. AGRICULTURAL LAND      507.0     518.0    570f1])&              25.0      375.0       18S.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE C/THOU, AV)        37.6      33.1       28.2               50.5       44.2        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (UTOU,AV)          10.7       e.0       17                 23.0       13.2        12.9
INFANT VoRTALITY RATE (/THOU)       52.0      50.0      51      ,         165 o        s           40:)
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      60.5      65.8         67.8            41.8       58.6         56.7
GROSS REPROOUCTION RAT6              2.5       2.3        2.2                3.2        3.3         2.6)a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.6       2.4        1.7                3.0 )a     3.0 -       2.9
URBAN                                4.8       4.5        3.7                5.6        4.0         3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% Of TOTAL)         17.9      22.0       24.3                5.5 )b    27.6        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      41.5)a   40.0        39.0)a             44.4 )b    45.6        44.a
15 TO 64 YEARS                      54.3 )a^  56.0       56484) 53.0 )D    51.6                    52.1
65 YEARS ANO CVER                    4.2 )a    4.0        4.2)A              2.6 )b     2.8         3.2 
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8 )4    0.8        O.f)@                         0.9         0.9) a
ECONDAIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.S       1.4        1.2 )              1.2's'     1.5         1.6)
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUTIULATIVE, THON)         ..    215.3       431.5                 ..      320.0       222.2)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOEN)             ..       7.0        9.9                 ..        2.0         8.0)a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3500.0    4100.0   4600.0              S600 0)a,l2400 0        3600 0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        49.0     52. a    55.0c         .      91:o)a b   55:0)a      49,5
UNEMPLOYED (t OF LABOR FORCE)          4.0),,b   9b           11)d              *-        7.6         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           26.4)     1B.8       18.6               33.5                   28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           52.1.     45.6       42.8               63.3      54.0.        56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.5Ja     7.4        7.3                2.3       3.6          3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.7)     17:9       19.3               7.8       1137         11.2
DiSTRIEUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP      -
% O^'4ED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..        ..        ..
X OwNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..        ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4600.03C       ..    3980.Q )e         21570.0)
POPULATION PER NURStNG PERSON       4170.0    2730.0)c 2280.  )a            4890.0 a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          290.0)    330.0)c   330.0)a             700.00     850.0       270:0)a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        92.0     101.0       97.0               73.0       93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             45.0      50.0       45.0               43.0       45.0        49 CO
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0      16.0       15.0               23.0       22.0        20.0)b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..      16.8                 ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRI.aRY SCHOOL                      95.0      99.9       96.0               35.0      113.0        89q.Oa
SECCNDARY SCHOOL                    27.0      51.Q)d    59.0)f               3.0       49.0       .34.0)a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0      12.0       12.0               13.0       10.0        13.0 )a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(5 OF SECONDARY)                      ,,       i.o)d      i.o)f             10.o)c      6 0b        3.0 )a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)               61.0)a       ..      78.1                 * *                  55.0 )a
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               2.1 )a               2.7 )g                                    2.3)a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (.)                     80.9,8      ..       77.5)9             3o.o)b,d  76.0         65.0)a,c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 7,5 )a      ..0 )g                       ,,       23.0        43.0)a
RURAL DOELLINnS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   2.3 )a      ..           )               ..        7.0        30.0 )a
CON SUMTPT ION
___________                                                   37 . 0
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        36.0                   .                11.0        72.0       41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          8.0        7.0       J0                 3.0         8.0       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          31.0       65.0      '2.u               31.0      235.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.2       1.5        0.5               0.1         2.0        4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1.959 and 1961, for
1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 and 1975.
* GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76
basis).
**  The selection of Malaysia as an objective country is based on its ability
to combine a high rate of economic growth with an adequate level of wel-
fare making it a suitable objective for policymakers in Sri Lanka.
SRI LANKA        1960       a/  1963
b/  Registered applicants for work.
c/  1962
1970      a/  As a percentage of employment
b/  Registered unemployed
c/  Government only
d/  Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary
education wa*s increased from 4 to 7 years. Data on vo-
cational education refer to technical institutes attached
to the Ministry of Education only.
X  Technical institutes attached to the Ministry of Education only.
&/ 1971
Most Recent Estimate:
a/  1976
b/  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total
labor force.
c/  As percentage of employment
d/  Registered unemployed
e/  1972
f/  Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary
education was increased from 4 to 7 years. Data on
vocational education refers to X.
Tanzania         1970       a/  Mainland Tanzania
b/  1967
c/  1965
d/  As percentage of urban households
Philippines      1970       a! As percentago of employment
b/ Not including prtvate vocational schools or vocational
slhort-terni school.
Mala].ysica      1970       a/  Peninsular Malaysia
h/  19()4-66
c/ Pi.ped water inside



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
AREA                        POPULATION               1                                      DENSITY
65,607 sq km                13.8 million (mid 1976)-'                                        210 per sq km (1976)
Rate of Growth:  1.7% (from 1971 to 1976)                       554 per sq km of agricultural
land (1974)
POPUlATION CHARACTERISTICS (1976)                                        HALTH  (-1976)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):  27.4                                       Population per physician:    6,107
Crude Death Rate (per '000):   7.9                                       Population per hospital bed:   330
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births):  51 (1974)
INCOM  DISTRIBUTION  (1973?                                              DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% of national income, highest quintile:  45                              % owned by top 10% of owners            **
lowest quintile:   13                            % owned by smallest 10% of owners   **
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
% of population - urbant  77                                              % of dwellings  - urban,  9
- rural:   5                                                              - rural:  3
NUTRITION (1973)                                                          EDUCATION (1973)
Calorie intake as % of requirements:  close to 100                       Adult literacy rate:  78%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):  45                           Primary school enrollment:  86%
2/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1976:   US$200
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1976                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (I. constant prices)
__s$ Mn         %                         1960-65            1965-70             19'0-76
GDP at Market Prices             3,114        100,0                          3.6                5.3                 2.7
Investment,                        495         15.9                           **                 **                  **
Domestic Saving                    430         13.8                           **                 **
Current Account Balance            -65         -2.1                            *                   *                   *
Exports of Goods, NFS              628         20.4                          3.8               -0.6                -0.8
Imports of Goods, NMIS             679         22.0                        -8.4                  3.5               -5.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                           Empleymeat-V                     V. A, Per Worker
Jiss M-n      %Mn                                 7                       1IJS$    --___
Agriculture                      1,053       36.1                   2.029       50.1                       519        73
Industry 4/                        468       16.3                   0.389        9.6                    1,203       171
Services                         1,343       46.9                   1.632       40.3                      823       110
Unallocated                         *          *                                                           *         *
Total/Average              2,864      Th5-0                    4.050     10021f                      707       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Govermnent
(Rs m)         % of GDP
1976       1970-72   1976
4               Current Receipts                                                                        5,837            21.0    18.8
Current Expenditure                                                                     5 925           23.1    19.1
Current Surplus                                                                           -88            2.1    -0.3
Capital Expenditures                                                                    2,030            6.4      6.5
External Assistance (net)                                                               1,050            2.7      3.4
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ The per capita GNP estimate for 1976 is taken from the World Bank Atlas.  Per capita adjusted GNP
in 1977 (see Annex C) at the new exchange rate is $160. All other conversions in this table are
at the average official exchange rate prevailing during the period.
3/ The sectoral distribution was assumed to be the same as for 1971.
4/ Includes mining.
Note:  As described in "The Economy" section of this report, Sri Lanka has introduced a number of
major chan,ges in domestic and external policies. The implications of these policies for
the future have been reviewed in the Country Economic Report entitled "Development in Sri Lanka:
Issues and Prospects," dated March 22, 1978 (Report No. 1937-CE). In consultation with the
Government, work on detailed projections of the maJor macro-economic parameters, and the balance
of payments is currently under way.
** not available
* not applicable



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
September
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                 1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976         1977
(end of period)
Money and Quasi Morey                    3,379    3,916    4,093    4,504    4,712    6,521            7,795
Bank Credit to Public Sector             2,738    2,709    2,600    2,468    2,497    3,580            3,016
Bank Credit to Private Sector            1,736    2,117    2,133    3,188    3,363    3,919            5,222
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         26.6      28.7     24.8      20.9      19.6      23.7           -
General Price Index (1970 - 100)         102.7    109.2    119.7    134.4    143.3    145.2            146.2-'
Annual percentage changes in:                                                                             1/
General Price Index                       +2.7     +6.3      +9.6    +12.3       +6.6      +1.3         +1.3-
Bank credit to Public Sector              +8.3     -1.1      -4.0      -5.1      +1.2    +43.4         -13.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             +8.6    +21.9      40.8    +49.5       +5.5    +16.5         +34.8
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1977)
2/
1976     1977-                                                           US$ Mn      %
(US$ Million)
Tea                                419      53.6
Exports of Goods, NFS             627       864                          Rubber                              109      14.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             679       809                          Coconut Products                     38       4.9
Resource Gap (deficit =       -)   -52      +55
Interest Payments (net)           -20       -17                          All other commodities               215      27.5
Workers' Remittances                -         -                              Total                           781    100.0O
Other Factor Payments (net)         -         -
Net Transfers                      +7        +7                       EXTERNAL DEBT, (US$ Million)3/
Balance on Current Account        -65       +45                                              December 1976   December 1977
Direct Foreign Investment           1        -1                          Total outstanding   1,102.6            1,124.0
Net MLT Borrowing                  83        74
Disbursements                 (111)    (122)                          Total Outstanding
Amortization                   (28)      (48)                           and Disbursed         702.3             784.
Subtotal                        83
Capital Grants                     58        62                       DEBT SERVICE PATIO for 1977A-/         22.8%
Other Capital (net)               244         1
Other items n.e.i.                 +4         2
Increase in Reserves (+) 5/       +67      +183
Gross Reserves (end year)          92       292
Net Reserves   (end year)         -67      +116
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31. I977 (USS Million)
1967 - 1971                                                                                               IBRD         IDA
US$3.z) - R. 5.93
Rs 1.0   = US$0.17                                                Outstanding & Disbursed                34.3        57.5
Undisbursed                            5.8        64.2
End 1972                                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          ff0-1      121.7
US$1.00 = Rs 6.70
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15
End 1973
US$1.00 - Rs 6.75
Rs 1.00 - US$0.15
End 1974                                                         Foreign Exchange Entitlement
US$1.00 = Rs 6.69                                                 Certificate (FEEC) Rates 6/
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15                                                 1968       US$1.00 - Rs  8.54 (44% FEEC)
1969 to
End 1975                                                           1971       US$1.00 - Rs  9.19 (55% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 7.71                                                 1972 (end) US$1.00 - Rs 10.38 (55% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13                                                 1973 (end) US$1.00 - Rs 11.13 (65% FEEC)
1974 (end) US$1.00   B Rs 11.04 (651 FEEC)
End 1976                                                          1975 (end) US$1.00 - Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 8.83                                                 1976 (end) US$1.OU - RS 14.57 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.11                                                 1977 (end
October) US$1.00 - Rs 14.07 (65% FEEC)
End 1977
US$1.00 = Rs15.56
Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
V/ Average of first three quarters of 1977.
2/ Preliminary estimate as of March 1978.
3/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
4/ Ratio of debt service including short-term and IMF credits to exports of goods and
non-factor services.
5/ Includes errors and omissions.
6/ The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs Department
May 12, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ Million
Amount (net of can-
Loan or                                                     cellations and ex-
Credit                                                      change adjustments
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and three credits fully disbursed             42.4   34.6
636     1969   Ceylon
Electricity
Board          Power                  16.5              0.7
653     1970   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development          14.5             4.1
372     1973   Sri Lanka         Power Transm.                   6.0      0.4
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development               9.0      7.8
566     1975   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial
Finance                       4.5     1.1
595     1975   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Devel-
opment                       25.0    13.0
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                 5.0      4.9
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga Devel-
opment II                    19.0    19.0
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                    9.2      9.2
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial
Finance                         8.0     8.0
Total,                                                   73.4  120.3    68.2
of which has been repaid                              34.1 _T2_
Total now outstanding                                    34.5  120.3
Amount sold,                               3.6             -
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           34.5  120.3
Total undisbursed                                         4.8   63.4    68.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of April 30, 1978)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                                 -      0.1      0.1
1977  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                2.0    0.1       2.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION  I/
Ln. No. 636 - Maskeliya Oya Power Project; US$16.5 million of July 28, 1969;
Effective Date: January 19, 1970; Original Closing Date:
September 30, 1973, Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is virtually completed. The first unit of 50 MW was
commissioned in February 1974, about 1-1/2 years later than originally esti-
mated. The second unit was commissioned in July 1974. The gas turbine unit
was cancelled upon the request of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). Delays
were caused mainly by problems associated with the appointment of acceptable
consultants, landslides in the penstock area, and various strikes in manufac-
turers' factories. Site work has in general been carried out satisfactorily.
The only remaining work, the extension of the Polpitiya switching station,
will be completed during 1979. The closing date of the loan has been extended
to December 31, 1978, to allow for completion of the Polpitiya switching
station, and the use of foreign exchange savings of about US$1.7 million to
cover the cost overrun on the Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(Credit 372-CE), discussed below.
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1978
An assurance has been received from the Government that the invert
lining of the Bowatenna Tunnel was completed during closure of the Tunnel in
February/March 1978. This work completes implementation of the project, some
two years later than originally scheduled. An undisbursed amount of $4.1 mil-
lion remains in the loan, which the Government is attempting to utilize for
equipment procurement before the loan terminates on July 31, 1978. The credit
associated with the loan has been fully disbursed.
Cr. No. 372-CE - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 5, 1973; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding without major problems. Procurement
of equipment and materials is practically completed. Route survey and
right-of-way acquisition are progressing satisfactorily. Inflation since
signing has increased foreign exchange costs by some 30%, and we have agreed
to cover the cost overruns from savings under Loan 636-CE above. Although
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weakness in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
actual physical completion of the project will not be until late 1979, dis-
bursements from this credit and the US$1.7 million from Loan 636--CE, are
expected to be largely completed by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Farmers' response to the project has been most encouraging, with a
high rate of applications for loans to purchase cattle. However, progress of
the project has been seriously impeded by a shortage of such cattle due to
problems with imports and an overestimation of the national herd at appraisal
stemming from unreliable Government statistics. In order to improve project
coordination, which has not been effective, the Project Technical Unit was
transferred from the Department of Agriculture to the National Livestock Devel-
opment Board in November 1977. Milk Collection by the National Milk Board
(NMB) has already exceeded full development targets as a result of an increase
in milk prices, approved by IDA, which were designed to ensure that milk pro-
duction incentives for farmers were maintained. Consequently, NMB has had
neither the time nor the incentive to establish project milk collection centers
and delivery systems. The Government has proposed a reformulation of the
project along the lines of the AMUL-model (Kaira District, India) of farmer-
owned and operated dairy cooperative societies. A supervision mission is
currently in the field to review and evaluate the reformulation proposal and,
dependent upon their findings, a determination will be made whether IDA should
continue with the project in its present form.
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The credit was designed to help meet the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for lend-
ing mainly to export industries and tourism. Sub-projects for the total
credit amount of $4.5 million have been approved, and the credit is likely
to be fully disbursed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 595 - Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Original
Closing Date June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation and disbursements fell behind schedule be-
cause of initial delays in finalizing complementary UNDP Projects, appointment
by Government of key consultants and inadequacies in local overall project
coordination. The most severe of these deficiencies have now been removed and
project progress is satisfactory. However, disbursements are expected to be
only $16.9 M on June 30, 1978, the initial closing date. In order to complete
the vehicle repair program and procurement of spare parts for the Department
of Agriculture, procurement of equipment for the Sugar Corporation, and the
procurement of additional trucks for the plantation sector and tractors for
Dry Zone farm power, the closing date has been extended to June 30, 1978,
when the credit is expected to be fully disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The construction program is behind schedule by about one year due
to delays in procurement of construction equipment, civil disturbances in
1977, and shortages of experienced staff for surveys, designs, and supervision.
Practically all construction equipment has now been procured and should be
available at work sites by mid 1978. The Government has also introduced
special incentives to stem the exodus of experienced technical staff for
better paid jobs abroad. Implementation is expected to pick up significantly
from this year. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by about
one year. Procurement and distribution of farm equipment is proceeding on
schedule. Introduction of the Training and Visits system of agricultural
extension is also proceeding satisfactorily. Due to changes in the exchange
rate, as well as refinement of quantities for various civil works, revised
project costs (net of taxes and duties) are expected to be about 30% lower
than those estimated at appraisal. A supervision mission returned in late
April 1978.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
April 21, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The new Government, which came into office as a result of the Gene-
ral Election in July 1977, has chosen to make the Mahaweli Ganga the focus
of its development effort and is making a serious attempt to complete the
project in less than the four years planned during project appraisal. The
Mahaweli Development Board has negotiated several contracts with the Army
Engineers and other Government agencies for clearing forested areas and
undertaking other construction work; some work was initiated in October,
some two months before credit effectiveness. It appears that IDA's goal of
strengthening the private construction sector by splitting the larger public
works between private and public agency contracts will not be realized in
the Government's haste to complete the project. Procurement actions for
vehicles and equipment are moving rapidly and some equipment arrivals are
anticipated by mid 1978. Construction work is presently going ahead with
equipment available in the Government Sector.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10; Effective Date:
February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Due to the change of Government in July which resulted in a change
in Secretary of Local Government and chairman of the Water Supply and Drainage
Board, and the post-election disturbances, the new Government's consideration
and review of its obligations under the credit agreement was delayed. As a
consequence, at the time of the scheduled effectiveness date, the Government
and WDB had not complied with agreed upon rate increases for bulk water. The
Government indicated its intention to comply with this covenant by January 31,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
1978, and the effectiveness date was changed to February 15, 1978. The
Government subsequently fulfilled all necessary covenants including the rate
increase for bulk water, and the credit was declared effective on February 9,
1978.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit was designed to meet a substantial portion of DFCC's
estimated foreign exchange requirements over a two-year period for lending to
private sector industrial projects and tourism. Implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and, to date, sub-projects for US$1.5 million have been approved
by IDA.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SRI LANKA
TREE CROP DIVERSIFICATION (TEA) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
The project was identified and prepared on the basis of the
FAO/UNDP technical assistance in agricultural diversification
beginning in 1970. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program assistance
was provided in project preparation in 1975/76. The project
proposal was finalized in September 1977.
(b) The agency preparing the project
The project was prepared by the Agricultural Diversification
Division (ADD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands with
FAO/UNDP assistance.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and the date of the
first Bank mission to consider the project
April 1976, first presentation to the Bank;
May 1976; first (identification) mission
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
October 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 1978                                                                 )
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1978
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
In order to expedite project implementation and procurement
of key equipment needed in the project, retroactive financing of
up to US$0.5 million is recommended for tractors, trailers, and
vehicles under the credit (para 52).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of NADSA;
(b) Transfer of control over the lands included in the
project to NADSA (para 62).
Other Special Conditions
(c)  Government would take measures to protect water supply
systems against waterborne diseases (para 38);
(d) NADSA would employ experts to assist in carrying out
the Project (para 39);
(e) All staff provided under the project to SCD, FD, and PTU
would work full time on the Project (para 42);
(f) Government would establish necessary Dairy Cooperatives
by July 31, 1981 (para 42);
(g) NADSA would continue to support and organize settlers
work efforts through project year 6 (para 43);
(h)  NADSA would monitor the settlers economic status
and Government would ensure that settlers have the
financial ability to continue to develop their farms
(para 45);
(i) Government would make available on a grant basis the
proceeds of the credit to NADSA (para 47);
(j) Government would adopt cost recovery proposals
acceptable to IDA (para 48); and
(k) Government would take all measures to provide relief
to displaced estate workers (para 60).






IBRD 13383
Koraesatttuie,                                    25'                                       800                                                                                        80\4c          FEBRUARY 1938
SRI LANKA
TREE CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT (TEA) I                                                                                KANDY
1 Ri                                                               Project Boundaries
a                                             0]  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Setfler,en,t Areos
L ANKA                                N                            Forest Areos
____ Roads
.,'                                      N                    -r---                                                                               Perodenrtya
j olo8o\'   / 7.15'                             P_ oinc7lBould.rv                                                                                                                         7  15' 
/naf;an  Ocean                                     O______2__3__4__s___________________________ _=
80' 20j
7)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y I 
7702-
enne  Undo GURUGODA                 H'NrnIoKd 7                                             aan
I~~~GH
CAI'CHMENT                     nAlnn                                                         -d ...et
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 05 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'0'
80- 20'                                  80' 25'                                                                                                                     -- s'ocpO,o  B0,hoa O, n
80' 30'                  35'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04



