CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 819 CE
Project Agreement
(Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION
AND SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY
Dated July 12, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 819 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND SETTLEMLNT AUTHORITY,
established pursuant to the State Agricultural Corporations Act
No. 11 of 1972 of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called NADSA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, thE. Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that NADSA agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS NADSA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NADSA shall, with the assistance of FD, PTU and
SCD, carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, finan-
cial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿-2-
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NADSA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NADSA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NADSA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made avai ble to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) NADSA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schadules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) NADSA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits derived
from it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) NADSA shall afford reasonable opportunity for the
Association's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of NADSA
and any relevant records and documents for purposes related to
the Credit and this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NADSA and
the Association, NADSA shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by NADSA, the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) NADSA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) NADSA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which affects or threatens to affect the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by NADSA of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. In order to assist NADSA in carrying out
the Project and especially in variety selection and the pro:essing
and marketing of the most important spices grown in the Project
Area, NADSA shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.07. NADSA shall collect data relating to the income
of settlers in the Project Area at least twice a year in order to
determine the income level of such settlers.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NADSA
Section 3.01. (a) NADSA shall at all times conduct its
operations under competent and experienced management, in accor-
dance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices and with the assistance of adequate qualified
and experienced staff.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NADSA
shall at all times take all steps necessary on its part to acquire,


﻿-4-
maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges which are
necessary or useful in its operations.
(c) NADSA shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and
repair its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accor-
dance with sound agricultural, engineering and management prac-
tices.
(d) Except in the normal course of business, NADSA shall
not, without the prior approval of the Association, sell, trans-
fer, distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for its efficient operation or the
sale, transfer, distribution or disposal of which would adversely
affect NADSA's ability to carry out its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. NADSA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such ricks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. NADSA shall cooperate with the Borrower in
order to achieve the purposes of Section 3.03 of the Credit
Agreement.
Section 3.04. NADSA shall continue to organize and remunerate
settlers for training of pepper vines and necessary weeding, fer-
tilizing and pruning for all crops on settlement farms in the
Project Area during the fifth and sixth year after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NADSA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently mafi7tained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) NADSA shall maintain separate accounts in respect of its
income and expenditures for the Project, summary accounts in re-
spect of all income and expenditures for the Project and a record
of all disbursement applications submitted to the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) NADSA shall: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿-5-
expenses and related statements) in respect of the Project for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The audit of the separate accounts referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall include, inter alia, a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they have been provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NADSA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NADSA
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NADSA:
National Agricultural Diversification
and Settlement Authority
Peradeniya Road
Peradeniya, Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:
NADSA
Peradeniya
Section 6.02. Any actioa required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NADSA may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of NADSA or such other person or persons as such Chairman
shall designate in writing, and NADSA shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION
AND SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Wijesinghe Sugathadasa Karunaratne
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   Tractors, trailers and vehicles shall be procured through
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association after
local advertisement.
2.   Small tools and survey and office equipment shall be procured
through prudent shopping in accordance with the standard proce-
dures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Dairy cattle shall be procured after bids have been invited
from three countries free from foot-and-mouth disease capable of
supplying cattle of the type required and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Planting material shall be procured directly by negotiated
purchases after quutations have been solicited from at least two
suppliers.
B.   Procurement Without Contracting
Construction of access roads, housing and water supply,
soil conservation and planting of homesteads, farms and forests
shall be carried out by NADSA using the prospective settlers as
the labor force, and skilled labor requirements for such purposes
shall be procured by contracting local craftsmen.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
(a) With respect to all tenders for vehicles, equipment
and dairy cattle estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, before bids are invited, NADSA shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require


﻿-9-
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) With respect to all individual contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i) After bids have been received and evaluated,
NADSA shall, before a final decision on the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform NADSA and state the reasons for
such determination.
(ii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Association's concurrence, mate-
rially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(iii) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract.
2.   With respect to all individual contracts for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit other than those
referred to in the preceding paragraph, NADSA shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform NADSA and the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


