                          Document of
                       The World Bank


                                                       Report No: 72950-CN




                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                            ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                           OF THE

WESTERN PROVINCES RURAL WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HYGIENE
                     PROMOTION PROJECT

                       LOAN 4863-CHA

                  BOARD DATE: JUNE 26, 2007


                           TO THE

                 PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


                     SEPTEMBER 25, 2012
                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DfID      Department for International Development
GBP       British Pound Sterling
GOC       Government of China
IBRD      International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
KPIs      Key Performance Indicators
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMO       Project Operation Manual
PPMO      Provincial Project Management Office
RMB       Renminbi (Chinese Yuan)
USD       US Dollar




               Regional Vice President:   Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                     Country Director:    Klaus Rohland, EACCF
Acting Sector Manager/Sector Director :   Mark Lundell, EASCS/John Roome,
                                          EASSD
             Acting Task Team Leader:     Sing Cho, EASCS
                               CHINA
     WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HYGIENE
                         PROMOTION PROJECT
                              P081776
                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                             Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 6
B.   PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................................. 6
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 7
Restructuring                                                                           Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level II
Last modified on date :

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                               P095315 – Western Provinces Rural Water Supply,
                                                Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion Project
Country                                         China
Task Team Leader                                Paul Kriss
Sector Manager/Director                         Paul Kriss
Country Director                                Klaus Rohland
Original Board Approval Date                    June 26, 2007
Current Closing Date                            September 30, 2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]
EA Category                                     B
Revised EA Category                             No Change
EA Completion Date                              December 1, 2006
Revised EA Completion Date                      Not Applicable


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$)
Source                                                    Original                    Revised
BORROWER                                                       25.36                        31.65
IBRD                                                           25.00                        25.00
DfID                                                           25.00                        15.50
 Total                                                         75.36                        72.15


3. Borrower
        Organization                            Department                        Location
      Ministry of Finance                 International Department              Beijing, China


4. Implementing Agency
         Organization                           Department                        Location
  Shaanxi Provincial Offices for        Shaanxi Foreign Loan Support        Xian, Shaanxi, China;
      World Bank Projects                          PMO;
  Sichuan Provincial Offices for         Sichuan Rural Irrigation and     Chengdu, Sichuan, China
      World Bank Projects                Water Conservancy Bureau
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 09/21/2012                                                         19.14
         Fiscal Year                             Annual                             Cumulative
2012                                                        0.00                                 19.14
2013                                                        5.86                                 25.00
                                                        Total                                    25.00


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                   N
       Have these been approved by Bank management
       Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,                   N
please select from the checklist below.

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The development objective of the project is to increase access of poor participating communities to
sustainable and equitable water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion services by adopting an
integrated and participatory approach.


7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]

n.a.
CN-WESTERN PROVINCE RURAL WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HYGIENE
                     PROMOTION PROJECT

                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director to a six month extension to
the loan closing date of the China Western Provinces Rural Water Supply, Sanitation and
Hygiene Promotion Project (P095315) from September 30, 2012 to March 29, 2013. The
extension is necessary to allow time for implementation of the remaining works to maximize the
project’s ability to increase access to safe water supply and safe sanitation.

2.     The project was funded by a combined investment of US$75 million: US$25 million
from a World Bank loan, US$25 million equivalent from a DfID grant, and a US$25 million
equivalent investment by the Government of China (GOC). The Loan and DfID Grant were
supported by three legal documents, dated September 29, 2007, namely: (i) a Loan Agreement
between the Bank and the People’s Republic of China; (ii) a Project Agreement between the
Bank and both borrowers – Shaanxi Province and Sichuan Province; and (iii) a Grant Agreement
between the People’s Republic of China and the Bank acting as administrator of the DfID Grant.

B. PROJECT STATUS

3.      Following the withdrawal of financing of the United Kingdom’s Department for
International Development in 2010, the project was restructured in May 2012 to reduce its scope
in line with available funding from the Bank loan and counterpart funding. Project
implementation, which had stagnated for two years due to the uncertainty of the funding
situation, resumed in June 2012 with procurement of the remaining works, goods and services
needed to achieve the PDO. However, delays in resuming procurement and the recent inclement
weather have led to delays which will necessitate a six month extension of the closing date to
achieve the revised targets.

4.       At this time, the number of additional people with access to safe water supply has
reached about 489,648 or 84% of the revised project target of 584,716 and the increase in the
percentage of people who have adopted safe hygiene and sanitation behaviors is about 124,165
or 62% of the revised project target of 200,505. A survey, carried out in mid 2011, indicated
that the rates of both hand-washing and hand-washing with soap are higher than the baseline in
the project villages/schools, and higher than in non project villages/schools. Final surveys will be
carried out upon project completion. As a result, the last ISR of September 2012 upgraded
Progress towards achievement of PDO (DO) to Moderately Unsatisfactory and Overall
Implementation Progress (IP) to Moderately Satisfactory.

5.     Procurement of the remaining works, goods and services resumed in June 2012 following
approval of the project restructuring in May. Due to late procurement start-up and the recent
heavy rains in Sichuan, both Provinces are requesting an extension of six months through MOF
to complete the following key activities: Shaanxi are conducting the bidding to enable the
construction of the remaining environmental sanitation facilities (latrines) in 15 counties to be
completed by September 15, 2012 in order to meet the revised targets. Shaanxi will also carry
out the last survey on behavioral change and a local workshop to share experiences among
county project management offices. Both provinces are conducting two domestic trainings to
learn about operations and maintenance to build sustainability. Sichuan has completed the
bidding and construction of the remaining 31 small water supply schemes in five counties.
Sichuan will carry out a last behavioral change survey and have hired a consultant to review
project outcomes and prepare the borrower’s completion report. Both provinces have dedicated
their effort on completing procurement and delivery of the Credible Action Plans dated
September 21, 2012, which was found to be satisfactory, based on the discussion with two
provinces on September 6-7, 2012 at the recent site visit, hence the team supports the extension
request.

6.      Compliance with covenants. Both provinces submitted all the safeguard reports
(including dam safety) reports by end July. The EMP/RAP were found satisfactory, and the
Bank’s dam safety expert provided detailed review comments on the dam safety reports on
August 6, 2012 for the PPMO to improve the reports by Sept. 30, 2012. The overall safeguard
compliance is upgraded due to the submission of pending resettlement safeguard and revision of
dam safety documents. There are no overdue audits and audits have consistently yielded
unqualified opinions.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Extension of Loan Closing Date

7.     The proposed extension of loan closing date from 9/30/2012 to 3/31/2013 is justified to
allow time for implementation of the remaining works to maximize the project’s ability to
increase access to safe water supply and safe sanitation.

8.     The Grant Agreement for the project closes on September 30, 2012. This will not be
extended because the available grant is fully utilized.
