Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3115-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
August 26, 1981
This document hbs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of August 20, 1981)
US$1.00       =  Rs 8.958446
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.1116
Rs 1 million = US$111,626
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.00,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAD   -    Command Area Development
CADA  -    Command Area Development Authority
GOI   -    Government of India
GOMP  -    Government of Madhya Pradesh
HB    -    Hasdeo Bango Project
ID    -    Irrigation Department of GOMP
MP    -    Madhya Pradesh
MRP   -    Mahanadi Reservoir Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:        State of Madhya Pradesh
Amount:             SDR 195.2 million (US$220 million)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   As part of Central assistance to states for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project             The proposed project comprises a five-year time-slice
Description:        (July 1981 - June 1986) of the development of two major
irrigation schemes in Madhya Pradesh: the Mahanadi
Reservoir Project (MRP) and the Hasdeo Bango Project (HB).
Construction of the planned storage reservoirs, needed to
develop available water resources, is already underway and
would be continued. Canal capacities would be enlarged to
meet peak water requirements, and sufficient control
structures would be provided so that the canal systems can
respond to changing seasonal and annual water demands.
All channels would be lined down to 40-ha outlets, and the
conveyance system would be extended down to 8-ha outlets.
The project would further provide surveys and
investigations for the future Arpa Irrigation Scheme and
improve the implementation and management capabilities of
MP's Irrigation Department.
The project would increase agricultural production and the
standard of living of the farmers in MP. Possible risks
under the proposed project are those normally associated
with irrigation projects in India.
Thi. docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii--
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs 1/:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
MRP Irrigation Infrastructure                               89.5      17.4    106.9
HB Irrigation Infrastructure                               116.5      22.6    139.1
Preparation of Arpa Scheme                                   2.0       -         2.0
Roads                                                       16.0       2.8      18.8
Sub-chak Channels                                            2.0       -         2.0
Research, Hydrometeorology
and Technical Services                                     9.1       1.9     11.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                                    0.5       -         0.5
Base Cost:                                           235.6      44.7    280.3
Engineering and Administration                              34.8       -       34.8
Physical Contingencies                                      26.3       5.0     31.3
Price Contingencies                                         79.5      13.3      92.8
Total Project Cost:                                  376.2      63.0    439.2
=====   ===~  =====
(US$ million)
Financing Plan:                                             Local   Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                                            157.0    63.0    220.0
Local Financing                                       219.2       -      219.2
376.2    63.0    439.2
Estimated Disbursement:                                     (US$ million)
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Annual:               15    35    47    50    50    23
Cumulative:           15    50    97   147   197   220
Rate of Return: 21%
Appraisal Report: No. 3458-IN of August 24, 1981
1/ Including taxes and duties, which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE MADHYA PRADESH
MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
1..     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount of SDR 195.2 million (US$220
million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a five-year time slice of
Madhya Pradesh's development program for the Mahanadi Reservoir and Hasdeo
Bango Irrigation Projects and associated items. The Government of India
(GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for
financing state development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by
GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to
significantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to



-2-
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import
substitution. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80
averaged only 3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports
over the same period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of
trade, which had remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated
sharply. In response, the Government introduced various policy measures
designed to stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average
about 9% per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has
slowed in recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints,
this experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a
substantially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input
constraints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in
1979/80. Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as
infrastructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a
consequence of these developments, the remarkable price stability that India
had enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79, with prices increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made
possible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief
employment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal
monsoon in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%.
The industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81
rising only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased
substantially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9%
higher than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half
of 1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above
its level a year earlier.



-3-
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from
1.3 million ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in
1980/81. Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in
1980/81, more than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80,
foodgrain production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet
consumer demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million
tons per year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain
prices for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up
substantial foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the
effects of the 1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in
1980. While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a
significant achievement, the effect of the drought on production
re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture.
The normal monsoon of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the
previous record level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the
recent past and the probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain
supplies will exceed demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for
foodgrain imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks
could arise from time to time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in
1981/82 to ensure adequate build up of stocks. Programs to expand
irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of other
agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of
payments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill.
Combined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import
bill to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's
merchandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of
GDP. India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In



-4-
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of
manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic
infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid,
roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there is
considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its
long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power.
Furthermore, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the
necessary adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas.
These include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy
resources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related
constraints on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased



-5-
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the
development of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity,
and the recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not
been able to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic
production. During the past year, India continued to face power and coal
shortages, but the situation improved substantially during the year so that
power generation in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up
prospective areas for exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum
products were raised substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring
domestic prices into line with world market prices, to raise resources for
further oil and gas development and to encourage efficient use of energy.
India is now committed to an expanded power program that emphasizes
exploitation of its large hydro potential and development of its transmission
and distribution system. In the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of
mechanization has been made in order to achieve more rapid growth of coal
production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in



-6-
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and-will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic
adjustment policies, although the aid community can and should play an
important role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate
foreign resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the
population growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2%
at present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue
falling to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate
appears to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was
substantially higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census
data are still incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in
life expectancy was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average,
Indians can expect to live five years longer than they did a decade ago.
This no doubt reflects improved availability of food and health services.
This implies, however, an even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring
about the needed reduction in the rate of growth of population. The Census
results, therefore, re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen a broad range of family planning activities to develop a wider
clientele and to provide that clientele with a professional, technically
competent advisory service which can provide the full variety of available
birth prevention methods. The new Plan continues the high priority given to
these efforts in earlier Plans. The ambition of its targets - implying a
rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its present estimated level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems
fully justified. Such targets imply a serious long term commitment to
moderating the population growth rate through an improved family planning
program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural



-7-
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in
increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural
artisans, and finally in broadening the provision of those services which
enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of
the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an
integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow
but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies.
Innovations such as the community health volunteer program and the national
adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted,
relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled.  Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting
infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, water supply development, urban investments and the
development of oil and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in
recent years.
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis



-8-
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the
fertilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another
key input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water
supply, sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector
also form an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the
next several years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial
investments will focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key
constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96.  As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN MADHYA PRADESH
27.     Madhya Pradesh (MP) is India's largest state.  It covers an area of
442,800 km2 and has a population of about 52 million. Although MP is rich in
natural resources -- minerals, fuel, timber, iron ore, etc. -- they are as
yet relatively unexploited. The State's economy depends largely on a
low-productivity agricultural sector, which contributes about 55% of the
State Domestic Product. The encouragement of agricultural growth,
particularly through the expansion of irrigation and improved water
management, is thus a precondition for economic progress. By most
indicators, MP is one of the poorest states of India.
28.     The per capita income of MP was Rs 896 in 1977/78, compared to
Rs 1,163 for the country as a whole. Between 1970/71 and 1977/78, the
State's income grew at an annual rate of 1.8%. Because of the population
increase, the per capita income actually declined in the same period by 0.9%
per annum. The zero growth rate of primary net domestic product is mainly
due to the stagnation of foodgrain production, which increased at only 0.2%
per annum over the period; this contrasts with the 3.4% p.a. growth rate of
the primary sector in the Indian economy. Production in the industrial
sector, which started at a low base, grew rapidly, at 6.2% per annum (11% per
annum nationwide), but contributed only about 20% of the State Domestic
Product. MP is estimated to possess 44% of the country's bauxite reserves,
50% of its manganese, 30% of its high grade iron ore, 25% of its coal, and
27% of India's total forest resources. Recently, rich deposits of copper
have been discovered. The State is estimated to be endowed with 11% of the
country's total hydro-electric power potential, second only to Assam.
However, the per capita industrial power consumption in MP is only 80% of the
all-Indian per capita consumption.
29.     MP's estimated population of 52 million (1980) is growing at about
2.6% per annum, which is one of the highest growth rates among Indian states.
The population density of 94 persons per km2 is low, compared with the
national average of 167. The population is predominantly (84%) rural, and
is scattered in small villages.with an average population of 430 persons per
village. Just over 20% of the population is tribal. One-third of the
State's inhabitants belong to the so-called backward classes, which include
scheduled castes and tribes. About 37% of the total population constitute
the State's labor force; about 80% of the labor force is employed in the
agricultural sector. Cultivators and agricultural laborers account for 53%
and 27% of the labor force, respectively. The average farm size in MP has
decreased from 4.0 ha in 1970/71 to 3.6 ha in 1976/77, with wide variations
among districts. About two-thirds of all holdings are owner-operated. In a
normal year, about two-thirds of the population has incomes below the poverty
line (estimated at US$114 for rural areas). However, there are large
regional variations in the incidence of poverty. In the eastern and southern
parts of the State, about 90% of the population live below the poverty line,
while the proportion in the western part of the State is about one half.
30.     Wide differences in climate, soil and topography create varying
conditions for agriculture in different parts of the State. Seven major
agro-ecological zones are distinguished on the basis of climate, topography
and prevailing soil type. Rainfall varies from less than 800 mm in the West



-10-
and Northwest to over 1,600 mm in the Northeast and Southeast. Winter
temperatures also vary throughout the State according to latitude and
altitude. Frosts are recorded in some northern areas. The agro-climatic
conditions in the various zones determine predominant crops (rice, wheat,
jowar, cotton and bajra, or a combination of those).
31.     Because of the limited rainfall throughout the State, which comes
almost entirely from the Southwest monsoon, irrigation development is a
prerequisite for a significant increase in agricultural production. The
arrival of the monsoon and the time interval between sowing rains and the
next realization of a significant rain are erratic. With irrigation, the
planting can be done on schedule, without guess work, and in amounts
sufficient to establish a good seed bed and to ensure good seed germination
and initial growth. The short duration of the monsoon season or an earlier
than normal receding of the monsoon rains further aggravates the problems of
equating moisture with plant needs.
32.     A major part of MP's irrigation potential is yet to be exploited.
Despite the fact that within MP are the catchments of all eleven of the major
rivers of Central India, only 11% of the net cropped area (about
2.2 million ha) in the State is irrigated, compared to the national average
of about 26%. At present, only about 15% of the groundwater and surface
water potential is utilized. Of the 2.2 million ha net irrigated area, about
half is served from canals and half from (largely privately owned) wells.
About one-third of the canal-irrigated area is under major schemes (defined
as over 10,000 ha), about one-third under medium schemes (2,000 - 10,000 ha),
and about one-third under minor schemes (below 2,000 ha). Without storage,
irrigation is almost exclusively limited to one season; less than 5% of the
irrigated area receives irrigation in both seasons. The potential for
groundwater development is fairly limited. The unexploited groundwater
potential has been estimated at 1.7 million ha, compared with a surface water
potential of 9.0 million ha. Thus, most of the increase in irrigation in MP
will have to come from surface water resources.
33.     Madhya Pradesh accords a high priority to irrigation and has been
allocating a large share of Plan budgets to this sector, currently about 30%.
Given the priority in Plan allocations and the apparent rate of utilization,
the growth in the benefits from irrigation in MP has been somewhat
disappointing. The two principal constraints to the development of
irrigation have been long construction periods for major and medium projects,
and the slow and uneven uptake of irrigation once the facilities have been
created. In many cases, dams have been built and water stored, but
distribution systems not completed, with outlet command areas ranging from
40 ha to over 100 ha. Because of this lag in the construction of the
distribution systems, the water has been preempted at the head of the system.
This fact combined with the ability of influential groups to monopolize
water, has resulted in large areas, especially at the tail end of the
commands, being left unirrigated. Other factors in the slow and uneven
uptake of irrigation have been the low level of technology adopted in
irrigation planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance, and
over-optimistic design assumptions about crop water requirements and
irrigation losses in the system.



-1 1-
34.     The Bank Group has contributed directly to the development of MP's
agricultural sector through previous IDA credits. The Madhya Pradesh
Agricultural Credit Project (US$33 million credit of June 8, 1973;
Cr. 391-IN) provided long- and medium-term agricultural credit to farmers
through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors, minor
irrigation and land shaping. The credit was fully disbursed by 1977. The MP
Dairy Project (US$16.4 million credit of December 18, 1974; Cr. 522-IN) is
supporting dairy development organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in neighboring Gujarat. Farmer response has been
excellent and the Government is under considerable producer pressure to speed
up the establishment of dairy cooperatives throughout the State. The Chambal
(MP) Command Area Development Project (US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975;
Cr. 562-IN) is designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization in the
command area of the Chambal River in MP and bring additional areas under
irrigation. This project started slowly, but is now completed. The major
constraint was the slow acceptance by the farmers of on-farm development,
which was meant to be carried out, and paid for, by the farmers themselves
with agricultural credit available to them from the proceeds of the credit.
The reduction of the outlet command size from some 40 ha to about 8 ha in MP
as elsewhere in India, as a matter of policy, has meanwhile virtually
eliminated this problem. The MP Forestry Technical Assistance Project (US$4
million credit of February 26, 1976; Cr. 609-IN) provided the funds for a
feasibility study, completed in November 1979, for the establishment of a
saw-mill and a pulp factory based on the forest resources of southeastern MP.
The MP Agricultural Extension and Research Project (US$10 million credit of
June 1, 1977; Cr. 712-IN) is designed to strengthen agricultural supporting
services, particularly extension and research in MP. Staff shortages,
especially in supervisory and managerial posts, have delayed implementation
of the extension component, but results in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attest to the effectiveness of the extension system
introduced under the project. The program would be expanded to cover the
whole State by 1983, through a recently approved follow-up project (MP
Agricultural Extension and Research Project - Phase II; SDR 30.3 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Cr. 1138-IN). The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation
Project (US$140 million credit of March 26, 1981; Cr. 1108-IN), which has
just become effective, will finance a five-year time slice of MP's investment
program for medium irrigation projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
35.     The project's main objectives are to complete planned storage
reservoirs needed to fully develop available water resources and serve the
projected command areas in two major irrigation schemes (Mahanadi Reservoir
Project - MRP - and Hasdeo Bango - HB), and to redesign the conveyance system
to meet peak water requirements and to allow adequate and efficient response
to the changing seasonal and annual water demands. For the proposed project,
improved planning, design, construction, and operational criteria would be
used. Research activities and a program for the development of sub-chak
channels (i.e. channels below the 8-ha turn-out down to the farm-gate) have
been incorporated in the project to promote better water use at the farm



-12-
level. Monitoring and evaluation under the project would provide continuous
feedback to project designers and operating personnel.
36.     Both irrigation schemes that essentially make up the proposed project
are designed for a modern irrigation service which should result in a gradual
transformation from the traditional broad-cast method of planting kharif
(i.e., monsoon or main growing season) paddy to the transplanting of
high-yielding varieties and an added impetus to the growing of a second (rabi
season) crop. The change in practices and varieties is expected to about
double the present crop yields. Water stored in the reservoirs would be used
to mature late kharif paddy, to meet industrial and municipal water demand,
and to facilitate an earlier transplanting of paddy in the following kharif
season. Residual water quantities in the reservoirs at the end of the rainy
season that are not needed for priority users (industry, urban water supply)
would be allocated for rabi (i.e., winter or secondary growing season) crops.
The conveyance systems to be constructed under the project would be designed
so that water could be supplied in a timely and reliable manner to all areas
of the command. The design would also reduce the inequity that normally
exists when large farmers have their holdings at the head reaches of the
distribution system, with a heavier concentration of small and poor farmers
at the tail ends where water supply is unreliable and insufficient.
37.     The project was prepared by GOMP assisted by local consultants (Water
and Power Consultants, WAPCOS), with substantial assistance by Bank staff.
It was appraised in December 1980. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III. A report entitled "India-Staff Appraisal Report -
Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project", Report No. 3458-IN, dated
August 24, 1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in August 1981. The Borrower and GOMP
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S. C. Jain, Director,
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
38.     The proposed project would assist the ongoing development of two
major irrigation schemes in Madhya Pradesh, the Mahanadi Reservoir
Project (MRP) and Hasdeo Bango (HB). It would comprise a five-year
time-slice, from July 1981 to June 1986, of construction work for these
schemes, which are expected to be completed to full development in about 15
to 20 years. The project would also include planning and design of Arpa, a
third major irrigation scheme in the State. All project schemes are located
in the predominantly rice-growing Chattisgarh region of eastern MP and,
together, will serve about 702,000 ha at full development. The project
schemes would be carried out in accordance with appropriate criteria,
standards and procedures adopted by GOMP (Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement) which are acceptable to the Association. Uncertainties still
exist in estimating: actual conveyance and operational efficiencies
achievable with the new design standards and operational procedures; crop
water requirements; and the changes that farmers would introduce in the
design cropping patterns as a result of a more reliable and timely water
supply. A flexible approach to project design has been adopted and the
initial project criteria would be adjusted as appropriate to take account of
revised estimates. Construction of the main canal networks would be carried
out in stages, with initial canal capacities based on water requirements



-13-
calculated from the projected cropping patterns, but allowing for the
projected gradual increase in the areas irrigated. However, the structures
along the canals would be designed to allow passage of larger flows. The
design of the conveyance system is such that, if necessary, the canals can be
enlarged in the future at relatively low cost to carry larger peak flows.
39.     The proposed project would include:  construction work on six dams
and a diversion weir; construction, remodelling and lining of feeder, main,
and branch canals totalling about 217 km; block development (covering about
154,000 ha) of canal distribution systems lined down to 40-ha outlets (except
where lining is proven to be unnecessary or uneconomical) with subminors to
8-ha turn-outs, lined on 8,000 ha and unlined in the remaining 146,000 ha
area; minor drainage work covering 154,000 ha; and construction of about
48 km of new, and improvement of about 624 km of existing, rural roads.
After the end of the five-year time-slice covered by the project, GOMP would
complete the MRP and HB schemes as soon as technically feasible
(Section 2.02 (ii) of the Project Agreement).
40.     Of the dams included in the project, the Sondur Dam (in MRP) is
already about one-third complete and will be fully completed within the
five-year project time-slice. Construction of the Bango High Dam (in HB),
which is on-going, would be continued, and preliminary work on the Pairi Dam
(in MRP) would commence under the project. A new diversion weir at Rudri
would be constructed nearly to completion under the project. On the existing
Murumsilli and Dudhawa Dams (in MRP), the construction of parapet walls under
the project would increase the freeboard. Works on the existing Sikasar Dam
would include rehabilitation of the spillway section and erection of radial
gates, as well as the construction of a parapet wall to improve dam safety.
To ensure the safety of the dams included in the project, GOMP would maintain
its panel of experts (already set up), with acceptable qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference, which would review the plans and designs
of the dams and their associated structures, and would conduct periodic
reviews, during design and construction, to examine whether any new grounds
for making changes in the designs of the dams have become apparent
(Section 3.07 (a) of the Project Agreement). After completion, GOMP would
have the dams and related structures periodically inspected to determine any
deficiencies that might endanger their safety. GOMP would propose
appropriate inspection arrangements for the Association's review not less
than one year before the expected completion of each dam or related structure
(Section 3.07 (b) of the Project Agreement). For each dam, a comprehensive
resettlement plan, including an implementation schedule agreed with the
Association, would be prepared not less than two years before the submergence
of any affected land, for the relocation of residents in the reservoir areas.
People ousted from the submerged area would be offered compensation in the
form of cultivable land (Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement); as far as
possible, irrigated land would be used for this purpose.
41.     Feeder canals would be lined to reduce losses and to provide a
cost-effective cross section. Adequate control structures would be provided
to allow reliable service to command areas. All main and branch canals in
the project would also be lined in order to reduce seepage losses, to reduce
maintenance needs, to improve operational efficiency, and to reduce the cost
of land acquisition, structures and earthworks. The type of lining for main
and branch canals would depend on channel capacity, availability of



-14-
materials, and the construction methods most appropriate to the site.
Distributaries and minors, which bring the water down to the "chak" 1/
outlets would also be lined - except where found unnecessary as a result of
tests and observations that would indicate that lining is uneconomical in
these reaches (solid rock, impermeable soils, etc.). Field testing of
various types of lining would continue throughout the project period, and
specifications would be adjusted if necessary. Since the benefits of lining
sub-minors - which take the water from the 40-ha outlet further down to 8-ha
turn-outs - in paddy areas have not been confirmed, the program of lining
sub-minors would initially be limited to about 8,000 ha under the project so
that design specifications, costs, and benefits of this program can be
evaluated. Natural waterways would provide main drainage; minor drainage
channels would be constructed under the project for about 154,000 ha of
completed irrigation blocks.
42.     Roads included in the project would be designed and constructed as
all-weather roads. They would be planned so that all parts of the command
area are brought within about 3 km of an all-weather road and all villages
with 1,500 or more population are linked by all-weather roads to existing
main road systems.
43.     Within the chaks, the project would provide for the construction of
"sub-chak" 2/ channels which convey the water from the 8-ha turn-out to
individual farms or to 2-ha borders where individual holdings are small.
Sub-chak drains will also be included in the project as required. The
program of sub-chak channels and drains would be limited to about 13,500 ha
in MRP and 2,000 ha in HB so that the benefits of delivering irrigation
supplies to individual farms in the kharif and rabi seasons can be evaluated
and demonstrated. Furthermore, a program of adaptive research to identify
and demonstrate new agricultural techniques and better farm practices would
be introduced under the project. This program would be conducted principally
on farmers' fields; two field sites of at least 40 ha each would be
established in both MRP and HB for the purpose. Funds are also included in
the project to establish a Statewide network of recording rain gauges, stream
gauging, and silt recording stations. Modern operation and maintenance
facilities for both MRP and HB, especially radio communications and
telemetering equipment, are also included in the proposed project.
Project Implementation
44.     Planning, survey, design, construction, operation and maintenance
of surface water irrigation and drainage works down to the 8-ha turn-outs
would be the responsibility of GOMP's Irrigation Department (ID). The
Secretary of Irrigation is the head of the ID. He is assisted by an
Engineer-in-Chief and 16 Chief Engineers with regionally and/or functionally
specified responsibilities. Each Chief Engineer has several Circles, each
1/ A "chak" is an irrigation service area of about 40 ha on average, com-
manded by a Government outlet.
2/ A "sub-chak" is an irrigation service area of about 8 ha on average,
commanded by a Government turn-out.



-1 5-
headed by a Superintending Engineer, who in turn is responsible for three to
five Divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer. To implement the
proposed improvements in planning, design, construction and operation, the ID
would be strengthened. In both schemes, MRP and HB, three additional units,
each headed by a Superintending Engineer, would be established: a new
Planning and Design Unit to work with local consultants, who would be
retained by the ID to provide general planning assistance and to undertake
the survey, planning and design of the irrigation and drainage systems below
the distributary canal head regulators (Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement); a Quality Control Unit to check the quality of construction and
to ensure that site testing of construction materials and works are carried
out systematically; and a Performance Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to
monitor project implementation and to undertake experimental and research
programs on design standards, work procedures, etc. As a basis for
monitoring and discussion by IDA review missions, GOMP would inform the
Association, separately for the HB and MRP schemes, of annual financial and
other allocations for operation and maintenance.
45.     The Agriculture Department would be responsible for sub-chak
development below the 8-ha turn-outs. It would also be in charge of
extension service and farm inputs. The Public Works Department would be
responsible for design, construction, supervision and maintenance of the
project roads. Two existing Road Circles in the Department, which are
charged with implementing the project road program, would be strengthened
with additional staff as and when required as the project gets underway.
Farming systems research under the project would be executed by the
Agricultural University at Raipur.
46.     Command Area Development (CAD) programs are designed, monitored and
evaluated at the State level by a CAD cell, created in 1980 to support the
State's Coordination Committee which, together with a high level Cabinet
sub-committee, is responsible for policy decisions with regard to CAD. At
the project level, a Command Area Development Authority (CADA) has been set
up for HB and two nearby completed schemes. A CADA for MRP is scheduled to
commence operations later in 1981.
Monitoring and Evaluation
47.     Monitoring and evaluation activities would be conducted on two
fronts. The Performance Monitoring and Evaluation Units of the ID would
focus on technical aspects, system water management, and routine monitoring
of operation and maintenance of the reservoirs and irrigation systems. Water
management studies would be undertaken in several areas within MRP and HP
such that sufficient data can be collected to reflect typical farmer response
in both kharif and rabi seasons. Within the CADAs, monitoring and evaluation
of project benefits at the farms would be carried out by improved use of data
that is being collected regularly in on-going crop-cutting surveys. These
surveys, which are conducted annually, primarily for estimating crop
production and yields, would be upgraded to provide the additional data
required.



-16-
Agricultural Support Services
48.      Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Jawaharlal Nehru
Krishni Vishwa Vidyalaya Agricultural University in MP. It controls six
agricultural colleges in different regions of the State which act as regional
research stations and, in association with 16 research sub-stations, provide
coverage of all main agricultural zones of the State. The Raipur College of
Agriculture lies within the MRP command and also maintains a research farm
at Bilaspur near the HB command area. It is being developed as a regional
center under the IDA-assisted National Agricultural Research Project (US$27
million credit of December 7, 1978; Cr. 855-IN).
49.      Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the Department of
Agriculture. The Training and Visit (T & V) System of extension was first
introduced in the Chambal command area in northern MP in 1976 and later
expanded to 15 districts throughout the State under the MP Agricultural
Extension and Research Project (US$10 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Cr. 712-IN). The extension program has given good results. Under the
recently approved MP Agricultural Extension Project - Phase II
(SDR 30.3 million credit of May 7, 1981; Cr. 1138-IN), the whole State will
be covered by 1982/83. The entire HB command has been under the T & V system
since 1979. Most of MRP has been included in the first stage of the new
Phase II Project. Under the T & V system, village level workers (who are the
primary contact with the farmers) would work only on extension and not be
involved in coordinating input supplies and credit requirements, nor
associated with administrative and regulatory duties.
50.      Improved seed is being produced on seven State seed multiplication
farms in or near the project area, and on three farms of the Agricultural
University. In order to remedy the still existing shortage of quality seed,
a State Seed Farm Corporation has been set up recently. Certified seed is
distributed through the State Marketing Corporation, which also distributes
fertilizer. About 60% of the fertilizer is sold through the cooperative
sector and the remainder through licensed private dealers. A widespread
reluctance of cooperatives to procure stocks of fertilizer in advance of the
growing season frequently results in difficulties for farmers in obtaining
timely supplies. In order to overcome this problem, GOMP plans to subsidize
transport and storage of fertilizer. The present level of fertilizer demand
in the project area is low. Pesticides are being procured and marketed by
the Agro Industries Development Corporation and a network of private dealers.
51.     Although marketing of agricultural produce is less developed in MP
than in many other Indian states, the present marketing facilities in the
project area, 25 regulated markets and sub-markets, are adequate for the
project. Processing facilities are also considered as satisfactory.
52.     The organization of institutional credit to farmers follows the usual
pattern in India. Short- and medium-term credit is provided by Primary
Cooperative Societies. Long-term loans are available to farmers through the
Land Development Banking system. Credit is also available through the
Commercial Banks and the Regional Rural Banks.



-17-
Project Cost and Financing
53.     The estimated total cost of the project, over the five-year
time-slice, is US$439.2 million. Taxes and duties included in the cost
estimate are negligible. The foreign exchange component of project cost is
estimated at US$63.0 million (14%). The principal cost components, net of
physical and price contingencies and of engineering and administration, are:
irrigation components of MRP (US$106.9 million) and HB (US$139.1 million),
research, hydrometeorology and technical services (US$11.0 million), and
roads (US$18.8 million). The balance is made up by surveys and
investigations for Arpa (US$2.0 million), sub-chak channels (US$2.0 million),
monitoring and evaluation (US$0.5 million), engineering and administration
(US$34.8 million), physical contingencies (US$31.3 million) and price
contingencies (US$92.8 million).
54.     The proposed credit of US$220 million would cover 50% of total
project cost, including all foreign exchange cost and 42% of local cost.
GOMP would finance the remaining project cost. The proceeds of the credit
would be used to finance: civil works (US$190 million), equipment and
vehicles (US$22 million), and technical assistance (US$2 million). The
remaining US$6 million would be left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.     The proposed project includes about US$322 million worth of civil
works (net of engineering and administration). Of these, contracts totalling
US$94 million for dams and main canals in excess of US$6 million per contract
would be let following international competitive bidding. To encourage
participation of larger contractors, similar works would be packaged for
bidding where practical. However, to gain the interest of smaller
contractors, the bid package would be designed to allow bidding for all or
any part of the works.  Indian contractors would be entitled to a 7.5%
preference for the purpose of bid evaluation. Tender documents would specify
this preference and the manner of its application. The remaining civil works
(US$228 million) are individually small, scattered over large areas and
carried out intermittently as-determined by weather conditions and
agricultural activities. Therefore, US$151 million worth of these works
would be carried out by local contractors on the basis of standardized
competitive bidding procedures and guidelines developed by GOI's Central
Water Commission and approved by the Association. About 6 of these contracts
were let between December 1980, when the project was appraised, and
July 1981. Works outstanding after July 1, 1981 under such on-going
contracts, estimated at US$9 million, would be eligible for financing from
the proposed credit. Since for these contracts only those expenditures that
occur after the signing of the proposed Loan Agreement would be eligible for
financing from the proposed credit, no retroactive financing is involved.
The balance of the civil works (US$77 million) would involve a variety of
technical constraints which would make these works impractical for tendering.
They would be carried out under small piece-work contracts. When required by
safety or quality considerations or when the quantities of works are
difficult to estimate in advance, small works may be implemented by GOMP's
departmental forces. Works executed on the basis of piece-work contracts
would be limited to an aggregate of 15% of all civil works, and works



-18-
implemented departmentally would be limited to an aggregate of 10% of all
civil works.
56.     The estimated cost of vehicles, instruments and equipment to be
procured under the project is approximately US$18 million (net of price
contingencies). All heavy equipment, with an estimated cost of US$9 million,
would be procured through international competitive bidding. A preference
limited to 15% or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The equipment and
vehicles will be grouped to promote efficiency and attract competition;
however, bids will also be accepted on individual schedules to attract small
manufacturers. The balance (US$9 million), comprising light equipment,
instruments and vehicles, would be procured locally in order to benefit from
existing servicing and spare parts supply facilities. Standardized
procedures and bidding documents developed by the Central Water Commission
and approved by the Association would be used for their procurement.
57.      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles and against the
ex-factory price of locally procured items. Where the ex-factory price is
not readily available, 70% of expenditure would be reimbursed. Disbursements
for civil works would be 60% of expenditures. For technical assistance
(training, farming systems research, irrigation management, monitoring and
evaluation, and the hydrological network) all approved expenditures would be
reimbursed. Full documentation would be required for all disbursements,
except for payments of up to Rs 300,000 for civil works and Rs 150,000 for
equipment and vehicles, and for force account, for which disbursements would
be made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents for
these payments would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by GOMP
for inspection by IDA review missions. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by June 1987.
Benefits and Economic Justification
58.      The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under
irrigation in MP by 360,000 ha and in rehabilitating an additional area of
about 235,000 ha. It would also ensure operational and management
improvements in the State's irrigation sector. Expected incremental annual
production of major commodities at full project development is estimated to
be about 1.3 million tons of foodgrains, about 1.1 million tons of sugarcane,
and about 150,000 tons of bananas. The agricultural value added to the local
economy is estimated at nearly US$190 million equivalent per annum. About
500 tons of fish would be produced annually in the reservoirs, and water    3
supply for industrial and domestic use would increase by about 810 million m
annually. The project would generate year-round employment opportunities for
an estimated 206,000 farm workers and an additional 47,000 full-time jobs in
the non-farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing.
Construction work for the project would create 120,000 additional jobs over
the next 15 to 20 years. These estimates of project impact apply to the
project schemes at full development. An estimated 20% of these result
directly from the five-year time-slice of the project.
59.      The net farm income for the 116,000 directly benefiting farm families
in the project areas, which at present averages Rs 2,100 for the typical 2 ha



-19-
farm, is expected to increase to an average of Rs 9,540, of which about
Rs 6,420 would be due to the project (after full development). Thus the
increase of net farm incomes over what they would be without the project
would average 206% (ranging from 126 to 310%, depending on location and
whether or not the area is presently irrigated). The project would
significantly reduce the incidence of poverty in the command areas. The
percentage of farm families below the poverty line of US$114 per annum,
presently about 70% in MRP and 85% in HB, should decline to about 24% and
20%, respectively, in the two schemes.
60.     The economic rate of return has been calculated for the full
development stage of both MRP and HB schemes, rather than for the time-slice
financed under the project, since works financed under the time-slice are
closely related to, and dependent on, works that would be implemented under
follow-up phases. Implementation schedules and costs and benefits to full
development of the schemes are based on a careful assessment of GOMP's
implementation capability. Sunk costs were excluded in the base calculation
of the economic rate of return, but their effect was tested in the
sensitivity analysis. Discounting cost and benefit streams over 50 years,
the economic rate of return is estimated at 20% for MRP, 22% for HB, and a
weighted average of 21% for the two schemes combined.
Cost Recovery
61.     Discounted capital costs to full development of the two major project
schemes are estimated at Rs 4,850/ha for MRP and Rs 6,480/ha for HB, on
average. Discounted costs of operation and maintenance would be Rs 268/ha
and Rs 288/ha, respectively, for the two schemes. Thus, total public sector
outlays would amount to Rs 5,118/ha for MRP and Rs 6,768/ha for HB. The
"project rent" (net incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm
family for its labor, entrepreneurship, and cultivation risk) is estimated to
average about Rs 4,690/ha in MRP and Rs 7,760/ha in HB. Discounted direct
and indirect revenue due to the fully developed project would total
Rs 1,416/ha in MRP and Rs 2,666/ha in HB, equivalent to a total cost recovery
index of 28% and 39%, respectively, for the two schemes and in a project rent
recovery index of 30% and 34%. Largely as a result of the poor irrigation
service, the recovery rate of water charges in the State is low. GOMP has a
policy of reviewing and revising the water charge every two to three years.
The rates have been reviewed recently, and a significant increase has been
recommended to the legislature. However, it would be politically difficult
to make farmers pay the higher charges before irrigation benefits increase
considerably and their distribution becomes more reliable and equitable.
62.     It is anticipated that, at full development, the average net income
per irrigated ha of cultivable command area will increase from the present
level of Rs 1,050 to Rs 4,770 and the average rent per ha of cultivable
command area will increase from Rs 120 to Rs 2,540. In addition, the
improved design standards under the project will result in a more reliable
and equitable water supply and therefore reduce the differences in net
returns between fields at the head and tail reaches of the distribution
systems. Consequently, there will be a considerable potential for increasing
irrigation charges in the project areas and other areas providing similar
standards of irrigation service. However, the current principle of
uniformity of water rates throughout the State as well as timing



-20-
considerations (risk to farmers' cooperation in case of untimely large rate
increases during project implementation and the risk that premature increases
would burden disadvantaged farmers at tail-end reaches proportionately more
severely than better-off head-reach farmers) make it unlikely that GOMP would
be able to increase the water rates in real terms considerably before
reliability and equity of water supply are substantially improved. As the
method of water allocation and charges would have a considerable effect on
the economic efficiency of water use at the farm level, the implication of
alternative methods needs to be assessed before rate changes can be
recommended. A set of studies and investigations covering these as well as
legal aspects of factors affecting recovery of irrigation charges and
estimates of the incremental net income and rent accruing to farmers in
modern irrigation projects would be required to provide a reliable data base
for a comprehensive modernization of the water charge system. GOMP would
include these considerations in a review of water and water related charges
in the State that it would carry out by December 31, 1983. As soon
thereafter as possible, and after paying due regard to IDA's comments, GOMP
would implement a system of charges that would ensure recovery of annual
0 & M costs and, to the extent possible, cost of infrastructure investments
(Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement). In establishing the level of
charges, due consideration would be given to the incentives to, and payment
capacity of, the farmers.
Project Risks
63.     The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that only large (and
quite unlikely) adverse deviations from cost estimates and implementation
schedules of the basic project components would make the project economically
unviable. There is a risk that GOMP could have difficulties in recruiting
the staff required for implementing the project; however, this risk is
considerably reduced as a result of GOMP's decision to involve the private
sector in design work and to use the assistance of consultants. The risk
that GOMP will discontinue the development of the HB and MRP Schemes after
the end of the five-year project time-slice has also been assessed but is
considered minimal because of GOMP's internal political commitment to develop
the project area and because of the increasing economic viability of
remaining works as the project progresses and becomes "sunk cost". Overall
risks associated with the project are small and acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Madhya Pradesh and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-21-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
August 26, 1981






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          HOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            3287.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    60.0        100.0      190.0              232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       111.1       152.5      241.8              499.4                   1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           19.7      22.0                17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.3       166.6      200.5              153.6                    373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7         308.0      355.8              360.3                   2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.1        42.4       41.1               37.4                     39.8
15-64 YRS.                           56.8        54.7       56.0               59.2                     56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          2.9       2.9                3.5                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8          2.3       2.1                2.1                      2.3
URBAN                                2.5          3.3       3.3                3.4                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.2         40.3      34.0               27.7                     29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.7         17.4      13.5               10.2                      7.5
GROSS R EPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          2.8       2.3                2.5                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           12.0      22.6               20.4                     44.1
FOOP AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0       102.0       93.0              107.1                    123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0         92.0       91.0               98.6                    112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            52.0        51.0       50.0               56.9                     62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               14.2                     19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       27.1         20.4      14.8               14.6                      4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.2          47.5       51.9               57.7                     64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        134.0     125.0               89.1                     50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      33.0               30.1                     45.9
URBAN                                 ..         60.0      83.0               65.8                     68.0
RURAI                                 *-          6.0      20.0               20.1                     34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.0      20.0               17.6                     53.4
URBAN                                 ..        85.0       87.0               71.0                     71.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       2.0                4.8                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4850.41c    4889.0    3617.4              3857.7                   4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9630.07    8296.5    6429.4              6411.8                   2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1              1132.8                    $88.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..     363.5              322.3                    579.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   10429.1             5600.5                   1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                                5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                                5.2         5.6        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6         2.8
URBAN                                2.6          2.8
RURAL                                2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE flES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA 4 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 61.0        73.0      79.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                 80.0        90.0      94.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE               40.0        56.0      63.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        26.0      28.0              38.0/as                53.5
MALE                 30.0        36.0      37.0              34.6f/as               58.4
FEMALE               10.0        15.0      18.0              18.0/aa                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  8.0          1.0       1.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        41.0      41.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                         16.0        21.0        ..              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.4      36.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.1       1.3               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.9        21.5      32.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.0-        0.0       1.0               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0      16.9               14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         6.3       3.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4   220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.2        32.4      31.9              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0      71.0              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.6        40.3      38.9              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                58.0        52.6      51.3              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                              28.2        27.1      25.7              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/e    22.2
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.97e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.77e     7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.27T    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LRVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     132.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                               ..          ..     114.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USD PER CAPITA)
URbAN                               ..          ..        ..                ..                  249.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.3              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.7              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNE" I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OT SOCIAL INDICATIOR
Noons;  Althuagh the data err dren fr sou.ce  generall1y ludged ohe mast authoriati-e sod relibi, it should also be cooed that they nap Not betoer
nationally comparobIe because of the lack of sterdardised definitioes aod --toPte used by diff-eet cuntries in colIlecting  the deta.  The fats are, none-
theless  uset..f   to des..olba ardere of  agnitude, iditoate neetdo, aed charecteeee  -ertato sujon differences bet..n.               utres
The'      "" eeetcc    tapsa   (1) the sm   ocoor  gas  of tha tuhi. non ..ousnyaed  (2)1 socutey group with sosrehet higher -orrege loo     rhso the coectry grouP
of the tab- ..... oetoy lneryn. tfor  Caitol Sorples Oil Eapartene" 9ru-p rheo   'Middle I e..ee North Afnlou. sod M11ddle, teso"  I5 o                   because oftorngow
1ogocururs  effinitiee).  Do ohs .efreoe. gou  de.-% ta.Ih the .. anognear  pau           oelghted arlo atlol  feso   toosh' udicator sd sho    onohy obe
maoity of .th   o tuoeos  ecu goc..p has actsfo  cs    urieo.  otc   he.ocraso  ocutr.. ...cg the endOneNoe  depends cc ohs soeilebility of data
ned isct elfr ..cno    mas  h,e e.ercised in rela~tIng  onge  of cne ditnd t-sec    -oooher.  Thr.e average  ar  only  -euttl icon -peelgnteoa-u- of
LI,AN AmA  fobas..s.d sa.)PMyp_itouo   per Pospivol ho-toal  Ars,ned ruer -yal                                                                                              anon'OtaI,
Total - Toct.ersnaen              yiiogland srea nd inland oste.t.                                    urbt, end nura) dividef hy thlen resp..t ice nashen of hosplie~l leOnt
Aelonl-isrmneo  aecutna   rs   sd ntsp--aily on peroarently                                 avilable in publin and private  garra  and  ssiled hospio1eden
for crcps, Pasturen, narit and kioohen gardens on to lie tslln; 1Dm8 dace.                          b ilo ic eset-.  Ifespital  ar             Issbhein.t  per-acntly moffed
by Iapns   n   htonn            othihen    r-ihding reirviralyo -ut-
GNP POER CAFITA  E      - GNP pee onpica estlen-  at.....etonariet prIes  el                             dial ..... orraniroladn.  turo  bospifls,i%nhecee,  ecdehealth
oaleted bytas          ieenic  nethod at hWnild Bach Atlas f19fdy-79 Issu);  9601                     sd medical -,o,ers not Pe          etytefd        .b   phyIcis  (hut bya
197D, end 1979 dsca.                                                                                  medoel s.ssn.     o  nurse  midaife, et.-) which offer ic-pet iect soc--
detian end prnn:de   lislted renge of erdina1 ftailitits.  Par  tatie-
ENERGY CONSUMfPTION PER CIPlTA- cata  --ptnyine of cosrce  esgyfca                                        Ion  parp en.    ea   opnl   nld               epieplgnrlhsias
and lignite perla,atelgseoyd-,uoeradgehraes-                                                          and rursi hotyPita1i  bad.  or rura  hospital  nd   ndol end   ateeiy
trio ity) in kilngnsns of  -ns  eqeinaleot pee Ospita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                           ceterst .NSPeiel ieed hospiattlaee Icoluded only undar etatl.
dete.                                                                                               Admi-tinn  pee lOepit_1 Esi - T.te  oushber of adeinsia.t to or discharges
manhospialtl divided by nhe ..urhen of bedn.
POPULATION ANl VITAL STATlDTICS
Total Papulanico, Mid-Star  oassd)-As of Jaly 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                             HOUSING
dacs.                                                                                             acreag  liar of HE.usehold fpeesoe  per houehld -'            oc,ura,ad  ua
rbanPplto    pren    ofttl)-ctia of sobseC to toca  populatioc;                                      A hnahidhnistn  ntccrifioul nosir   iIning ..uac..s
diffeent  efintico   ci uhar  reasmey  ffect  -ops..ahility of deta                      n  their main ra.   0 hore  org ndnomapa  ma  otbeildad it
tnnngoouonies; 196. 197i, ad 1909 data                                                     ohs bosnehd fon tenuinoinai  purposes.~
Popaleton Pradetlare                                                                           ce9satonbr of persnerro-i alabs,ndual-crgeam
Pepaintion orse    11- Cucen  PopuLaion projections are hasl -n 9Dt                                 be  of persons per roan in stl noban, nod nun-I  -nopte   cner m
toa    auointi h   gead  e  adthi  soslyed fril ity  retes.                                  dslg,respe-ticely.  Derlliogfsssilodeenc.-peessnentsrueeod
PnIstc    auntr   o   atllty r-tI onspris- of three  .en.  aeas-uaouis    oes
lee ,ad Orn-nliO If. ytnso-y atabiliefat n  77.5 Tests.  The Para-                            Inn-et ina"  d-ellitt  neith elootrloity in linin  qurtere atP.               -'
_etrs- for fertillty rate elso bans three Ieenis asauing daInein                                  at t.t, ur-ban, end rural dwellings enny-tloely.
fertiit iy s--cding tc i-          I.-e le elnd pest fsmilyplanigprotne
Ouch. coutry Is then essig-d one of these nine  oominatinns of enntolity                     EDUCATDIO
sod froth hey creeds don ycjs-i-c puepses.                                                     Adiusted Enrollnst Rtoics
st.iteensyy ecynlnclcr-Inae tatinnaey pupolation ther  Is nor genobsnc                              Prim-ro sh-l - total, sae _ and  t_nale-ira tontale. sal  atd f l
thn birth race is equal ton the deeth rate, and also the. ag  st_ronre on-                          erinen   cfal   gesat the priary  eI              aspretges of resprte
muino constant    hi  is ac.hieve.d only after fertility raten deolten no                           peinary echIu_-ge popsiutni.ns; noeseglly Icue  chiltdrn aged h-il
the replceetI      an1ata it net rprpedaentin rste, whin   -ho esnrrion                             y..e  utadoe:            foe differeon  lenghsfprimary rdacatie; foe
of ons.. neplsce  iteelt eactlp.  The statione.ry PoPuleino niencatriesnith unIversa  adoc.t..    ena                                                .sn  ray eneefeo  .100 psenert
estimated an the honis of the peojentednhroeetief the yn.Pueticn                                    mino  tom   pup..ils see heln  or anothe offoisI  sno  ag..
in the ysae 1011, and the race af d-liins of fertilunyon.te  to r-plsc-                           Sec-ndary  .ohen! - otl   aeadfele ,- Coepoted en abac; ne-odery
sent I eeI'                                                                                         nds...nian rnqirerset   ..an  tor. ers  f  eroedprimary instooccice;
Tes  neene-ar  pnpulatiar Isreacbed - Th. yesr shat etattocaty popuistice                              pre-ides general, nnran           or tsanher tcsioing  nt          ..n.n   f or pupib.
siee  has been macbed.                                                                              os..elly of 12 to 17 yeses ofage; -oreepondenienue  art g-e-saly
Per an. ka.- Mid-yea  population pee sqa k ilometnr flI  hctre)  f                                  tic-tinaI enrollen   nerneo  of s-ccrdary)   1- Ooaions  instintient1
ttlae;161,1190117  and 1979 dat..                                                            include techaica1. iedatoi_, orotyher prcet  shioh oporate  Indeed
Pes.h. aneoal-ra  leod -C.eputsd en alon  foe tgi-u1nur1 land                                    netp o  a  departmetsosenayintitunct.
only; eMil, 1970  ned 197f data.                                                                  Punil-tearher -atis - psisury. and ....ondary - Total studeni   -1naild in
Poeul.ttlne  Ass Stranture fpsrnrnt  - Children (0-14 yeses), terhing-afe f 11-                          primaY and s..c.ndery lene1t diolded by -esb.er  of teacheem  in che
64 yesem), and entered f 61 years end noner) as Perue..tages of sid-ysar pops-                        cerrapending I.ne..
istin 19019, end 1979 dat,                                                                        Adult liter-cy ste. fecn - Literate edolts (able to rend and nine)
.Ponelation le-noh te  _fRernn- - natl - annua  9rcech retes of total mid-                              napeenentege  of teta1 eduli pnpulatinn aged 15  ersadoe.
Year pnpaIlsi..s fan 1950-if,,1960-70, sod197 0-79.
FPoysleian   ..rowiBemte (Per.ontn    - urhe -a-'..I gr..nh rtent  of urbnt papo-                 CfNUTDTItOND
lati.n. foe 1950-60, 1960-70,. ad 1970-79.                                                       DPs.engeR.  Cans fper the..send population) - P...sseger -aon  -ayise satar
Crude Birtb late fpeeth .h...and) - une-1 ItIe hirths per tho....ed of nid-yser                       car.s. tteg les  he  eihtpe            .s enlodes  bma nt   earsesnd
Popultion; 1960, 1170,.1ad  979 deta.                                                              mil nary  _ehiles.t-egtpr
roude Desth la- fPeet h..sandi - Oaaual ds-hs pen chou....ds of  RO-ee                               adio Remceinen  fpr eeheu-nd rrlno)-All cypes of renni-ers fan radio
Opopulating;,1961.,197, snf..  1979 dane.                                                            broedoesan  gser   pob1ia   e  oos od.fofppatc eadean
bes  eroductiat lene-Averege  number of da-ght.remscm              ill bear Co                    lesd_rcivr           tn anriead inyears he'e regitstrin   of oadia
hernomlepdnsr period if she seperienca. present  ge-sp-if to frr-                                   sets  -a  in effeot; data foe .....n years nay nonb heneparable  tine
niliny  rase  uual   fisyar          -mSse andsnn in 1960, 197i, sod 1979.                          mostbnao    1iesahlihef linsts.tnt.
PemlI'll P lagin-hone..tars. A.nea  fotousends) - Ase.a.  number of a...pI reTV Deneiners (Per thane-n  pocalatie)-                                    -- rninee   for heoudoset no
ofhtnhantro1 dscoe  une   apine  cf national femily planning progen.                           g.n.e-1 pabil  yr thousand pepua.tin  enoiden unliasnoed 7e recIvers
PFmily PIla..ine -gee   ynor f m--rud n-en  - Ps-tcsngs at artied                                       i......teieae.d in pears  .henrgseteeo                  st  ass in MfeT.
asesatoil-feithi a-  .  n   ,ege f5-Aa psare  ahe us bieth-noanrul dectoes  tteestCrnlnn  feper thousn  na1'.palseinni -   iee   es  veag`nt
all mrried _wim n itsstegou.cltniaof"daily geelinrs   eeepr,dfedaseidica
puhlinstinn  deented priesrily to reanrdingtgeonrl nw.It Is nonsiderad
POOl ANDf NUiTRITION                                                                                     no he "daily" if it appsarm  en less  fou  tIme         wah
loden of Pond Penduoo  Do  Ceitne fl969-71-100) - ides of pen napit. atonl                          Cinem  annual hntsndaecs nr CepitE   : esyea-tamedon  he sanbet at
prndutiae of all fand  -osmditie.   Pnat..ne e ...ud . m,esA nd fsm  ed                             ticiet  sald daeing the yee..r       naie    disin   to dyiv--ie ci_e
in e  oslandar pear besis.   Cnsnnitrae   peimary god     eg.  agcsne                               and mobile units.
inetna.d of .safri whichere ndible and coenain .steetsf.g.8  ..ffe  aend
tee are nolae,d).1  lagtegne p-adu-ci.of.at inh...ntsnryis bes,d en                            LABlE FORDCE
_tninma   areis prd..e. Drice weights; INtl-h6, 1971, andi79 dets                                   .. Voe  Lbalr Parce ftnh.s.ads) - Ea....cally eniepersens, i-clodi.g
Per capita tu,pelyo   osoie   perenr sofrnaeaee     - Computd ter                                   aemdi f.e....efI...mpleyedhat e-clnding h-ueine,stdnt,et.
_enrgy eqin_let of na  fend supplies uneileb1e  is an-nry Per cPita                                 _ ocnig P-plain    f el ege.  Definiti... i.vriso.ntis.r
Dee day.   o-ilahle suppliesnops  damestin prdodution,  lmDnrts lees                              not  -eep-rabI   19601, 1970 aed 1979 data.
_ny_rI, ad cheag- Io seo_ni.  tNt snyplies emldeaimal fend, seeds,                             Pem_le  rrce _i-            l laher f-no  em penenenge of total le.b;r fore.o
quan tities used In fond pnneiag, end lossin distrihatino. tRquire-                            Aeri-ltare fesroennt  - Labor fae. In farmieg, 9fn-try, hoein.              nd
_nti   nret  estimated by DuO bh..nd on physlalginsi eneeds for normal anti-                      fishing em percentsge of tonal1 Lahon forne; 1901, 1970 ned 1979 dnta.
ity and helh ....sideriegeviemna  nepntre, body weights, ege                                    Indanrys fper-nrt   - Lebno  forte  inminng  o stru..tin, manfa-t-rig,.
as   esdisteibutian of pplta,sd nlest   10 per-ore  fores.est                                ad elseteinity, water edgaasPernentge of ntal. labor forc; 191
hanehld lenel; 1961-65, 1970, an   97dn,1970 ted 1979 dens.
Pe  opnasppl i   pfrattl  (erase  9eedad  -t Peetnin nonte-n at pen .apita                  Dar~ticiatne late f-roent  - tons,  ml,adfme   Partoiptin or
ta  sapply of fond Per day.  Net supply of fend is defined  bshon.  Res-                          actiyrtsteanpeda   ea,mle,tad feaelboir frte
quireme.r_  for all -outrtee eseshithed by tSDA  -moido fo    nimus                               pe'renrages of itel,. . maennd femal  pspuletSet of sIl a ge  reepotiotly;
Illsanc   If 60 goneo  totm  poirPer day and 20 grasfanimal and                                   1960, 1970, end 1979 fags.  These are bh...d an ILOgm  pnrtinipstien rates
pleprotein,oef whiob 10 grm   shoud be animal prti.Tb  ..  .ad-                               refla-tilgae-e   srnusof the pepsistiun, and long time tmend,  A
ardsI an  laser thanthObos  of 71 genm  of tets1 protein tad 23 gran:tof                         tfen eetiman a.re  ro   etinn..l  --se..
sni"es  prncinaaenn-sge   e   he-wrld  Propose.d by PAO it the Third                           fEtamhc. _teendeny. Retiu - latin  of ppuenennder 11 and 65 and ever
W.end Psad Survey; 1961'-67, 1970 an'd 1977 deta.                                                 tn  the tonal lahot for-n
Per  ,epit. pratein spply feon enma    _edpuet-Pesei   supply of f nod d-
rice   free animals ned paises in Sta   pr doy; 196i-65, 1970 and 1977 date.                 INCIOM  DISTRIBTCION
Child insee 1-47 Mnrtsl1  taRe,  fpee  =bausnd  -An .n..uI deashe per thea-sd in                    Per-ot..asf Printeo  boon  fboth in nash nod bindy  - le-ei-d hy riches
age gop 1-4 p-rr, no childras in shim  age group; foe   ostadeveloping noun-                            ecen  tichest 2f percent. t,porest 20 pere...t, and poorest ID pero..er
tries dne.t  derived team  life nablme; 1960, 1970 end 1979 data.                                   of hopeer    ds.
HEILTH                                                                                              POVERTY TAOOT GROgUPS
Lets Itysotency an airll bans). '- Acerage namer of pears of life ren-lalg                          The fa11inig estimate  ar .. ee.y apponieste maanres of penerty lenet,
atbirth; 1961, 1'D970ed197   ae                                                                      e     adb  intepee   st    ssdnsl otae
Infant Mrtarlity Rane (pe  tiecassod) - Annosil deuths of infseteun.deo  ate yea                    teiand  Aheoldb e  rPovrtyd incom  levee id1gbl ne  osits ors nrra
ofaeprfesedln.ine                                                                             Abenlnte p-qrf  itnma level is then.          ne  level balee  huh    minimal
Anosnolteios   receto   anltin   ttl,abI                           .ad  ure   - Cm-ntrit in...llyadsqnate diet pIn. e.seatis  toe-feed reqairemees Is net
Inn of peaplo  (tmist, arben, and orsl.) with reasnoable saness t5 ante                             sfordable,
waerspply fInaludes trea..tedsrc  esters  r  ....satedbut ... unoeametod                       Eteinned Ralati-e Peneron Ion-  L-1e fUSl pra  cmeit.) - urban ned  -el1
petermnragns oftheir "r...potheepaclrtnt    learerhat arena                                                               rt1                          h.    fi-rg lionit
f ..t...o.     tedat   oae   noth'mare lthen. T 101  bten         frame housemaih                   pereeml in-   sof tIn natey.  Vbe level is drived free the  -ate
..e.t.. or   .ndp.t I .. td   t -r.the.  00 ...,:,fo-   h... -ybleval cith adjienmet for higher onest of living ha  nohsae
ronsiereda  beig ninie resnoein sonet  f tha  leas.  Inratelnees              Ostiered  oenlnien  eIn Aealnr Povrtotnran  eve_   eeo...                 y -Irla
reanoonleancssaould  iply cht te assif. or noslare of t-he boeseid                         as d esral - DWeten  ef ppaltrion  fnrbsr and mes   she.r  "ahenlote
do u.     aen  s.po.d.a diny-r-yetioote Purr of tha day It fetchieg ohs
fonily'aeaened.on
A-encntea-tfyrirneon Os  yclticc-cotsal  .urbs, and rurl 
itubehe  of penpifocl. ott n, but,  ar  ora) .1served bysN-rets dispsl.. me
pcetseof their  s-pe-ti-e popolatians.  la-en   dimpoes1 maY leiads
the culleonia  and diepa...l, with on nith-atnoesnast,  frbent nnretst                                                                     0  .onain and Snnia1 Deta Dinisfan
end wan-et-r by ester-boone systems or the use atfPit pivies and  imi-                                                               E-eosic Aoalysis nO  P-cj-cion. Irpr             t
arI.s, llttens.                                                                                                                                            Mtay 1981
Populsene re  Phypieian - Poyslatine dividnd by  ..mbee at prs-tining physi-
nests qualified from a endloa1 sotn1 at un-rsity lenel.
Paeulatinn per NursiRs Person - Pepalatia dinided by t-ber of pronnicing
mal eand fem1l  tredeat.a..rs... pre-tio1...... nures,an   amistanonrsn



Annax I
Pans 4 of 5
CUON0IC DKVZWPHZT DATA
GNP POR  CAPITA TM 1979   U5S190
GROSS MATIOPAL PIOWJCT IN 1979/80                                                                         LIAEAL RAT& OF GICROWSN    . constnt pricesl) 
Us$  Sn            %            195/56136    1960/61-1964165    196S/66-1969170                  1970171-1974/75    1975176i-1978179
CNP at Market Prices                      134.16           100.0                3.7                  3.6                   3.6                   2.8                   4.5
Groa  Domestic Investment                  29.24            21.6
Gross National Saving                      28.55           21.3
Curr.nt Account BSl.nce   d/               .0.65          - 0.6
OUTPUT. LAbOR FORCE AND PODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Vito. Added (at factor cost)              Labor Force                VA   er Worker
U5S 61n                                MJ.L      7                  U.          I of National Averag*
Agricult.r.                            39.8                 39,6            181.3       71                220                  56
Industry                               25.5                 25,3             28.1       11                906                 230
Services                               35.3                 35.1             46.0       18                767                 195
Total/aver g                          100.6                100.0            255.4    100                  394                 100
GOVERNMENT FINA4CE
General Govero.ent                                                  COntcrl Coverrment
Rc. Al_               7      otCDP                                 Ito. Uln.             % of GDP
=998          ifu 17/0  1975/7v-1979/50                             /so           1979/80     17/699s
Current Seceipts                      208.18           19.2            18.9                                108.96          10.0            10.6
Current Expenditures                   206.44          19.0           V177                                 117.67          ILL             10 
Current Surplus/Deficit                  1.74           0.2             1.2                                  8 8.71       . 0.8
Capital Expenditurs        /            81.81           7.5             7.4                                 56.93           5.2             5.1
External Aasistmnce (net)  /            7.97           0.7             0.9                                  7.97           0.7             0.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1970/71       1973/74       1974/75      1975/76       1976/77       977/7         1978/79       IS79/8         Dacmber 1979    DPcmber 1980
(Ra Billion outAtnding at *nd of period)
Money and Quasi Money                   109.6         175.7         194.6        222.9          272.8         329.1         398.9         468 2             448.3              521.7
kenh Credit to Government (net)          52.6          87.3          95.3        101.1          110.2         134.7         153.9         192.2             176.4              231.4
Sank Credit to Coe_rcial Ssctor    64.6               107.0         126.7        153.9          185.0         212.2         253.5         306.5             294.7              335.9
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                                   Axril Dac 1979    April- De  1980
Money And Quasi Money as    of GDP   27.2              29.8          27.9          30.2          34.0          36.5          40.8          43.1
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71   100)                      100.0         139.7         174.9         173.0          176.6         185.8        185.8         217.6              212.2             253.5
Annual percentage changes in,
Wholesale Price Index                     7.7          20.2          25.2        - 1.1             2.1          5.2             -          17.1               14.6              19.5
Bank Credit to Government (net)          10.8          12.3           9.2          6.1             9.0         22.2          14.3          24.9              24.9  5/           31.2  h/
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector    19.4                22.6          18.4         21.5           20.2          14.7          19.5          20.9               17.5  t/          14.0  hI
8/  The per capita GNP estimate is at arket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World BRek Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the verage exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
P/  Quick Eatimates.
P./ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series. including one observation before first year and one obserwetion
.ft.r last year of listed period.
L World Bank eatimates; not necessarily consintent with official figures.
*/ Transfers between Centre and States bave been netted out.
LI  All bane and advances to third parties hevs been netted out,
8/  Percentage change from  end-Decmber 1978 to end-December 1979.
hI   Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 -            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
US$ Mln. 
Exports of Goods                         6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998             Engineering Goods              768 1/       11
Imports of Goods                        -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tea                           462            7
Trade Balance                           - 873        -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Gems                           605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633         463             Clothing                       460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182        -768    - 2.658    - 6,163                       Products                425           6
Jute Manufactures             284           4
Incerest Payments (net)  i.               - 89         - 35         350         303             Iron Ore                       298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -           -              Cotton Textiles                289           4
Net Transfers 1/                         1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462             Sugar                          132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413       - 850      -3.398
Total                       6.751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628        1,695      1,891       2,389              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                          - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   USS billion
Transactions with IMF                    - 330        - 158         -         1,035             Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.6
All Other Items                            617          286       - 143         133             Undisbursed                                  5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves ()                 -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548             Oundishursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  /             5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  h/S!  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEfBER 31. 1980
Imports                                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                   US$ million
of which:  Petroleum                 1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                IBRD        IDA
Exports                                     32           24          26         n.a.            Outstanding and Disbursed          806         4,895
Undisbursed                        572        3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$I.OO - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979               US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980              US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
h| Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMP, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
/  Excludes net use of IMP credit.
1/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
!/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
April 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                       Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                         1,422.2         -
71 Credits fully disbursed                                             -    4,023.4          -
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                     -       12.0         3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets                -        8.0         0.06
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing               -       13.0         5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                     52.0        -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                               -       30.0        15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                           -       83.0        28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                               -       27.7        12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                          -       16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                             94.6        -          0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development                -       34.0         1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                    -       40.0        13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                           -      105.0        21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                         -      150.0        43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                  -        4.0          1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                 -       18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                 145.0          -        77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                    40.0         -         10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                            25.0         -        21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                      80.0         -         18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                      25.0         -          7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                     -       30.0        22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                     -       20.0          7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                       -      150.0        37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                      -       24.0         4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research                -       12.0        12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                           14.0        -           7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development             -       10.0         5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     -       23.0        13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development                -        8.0         5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                        -       70.0        30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                    -       13.0         7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                             -       58.0        29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                           80.0         -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                       -       107.0        79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                  -        87.0         19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                  -         8.0         7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                     25.0         -          17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power               105.0          -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                           -       117.6        77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                            -       200.0       128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     -        14.0         13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                             -        85.0         63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       -        17.5         14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                              -        16.0         15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                      120.0         -          53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                 -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                         -       196.0       183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                             -       111.0         43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                              -       190.0       148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                 -        38.0        21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                 -        27.0         25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension               -        25.0         16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                           -        30.0         15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                     50.0         -          50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                       -       200.0       171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                              -       129.0       100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                       -        48.0         44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                 -       175.0       108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                  -        23.0         18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                       -       250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                               -        20.0         19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                      -       210.0       174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                     -        37.0        30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                  -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                           -        32.0         30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                 -        18.0         16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                          -       175.0        165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                           -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                      -        22.0         21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                  -        10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                       -        56.0         56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                          -        54.0         52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                              -        80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                          100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                         -       225.0       201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                        30.0         -         29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                             -        30.7        30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                             -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                           400.0         -       393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                          -        37.5        37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                        -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                       -       290.4       268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                     -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   1981  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                    -        21.7        21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                     -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II              -        34.9        34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                       -       117.1       117.10
Total                                               2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                          1,090.2       77.7
Total now outstanding                               1,742.6   9,245.0
Amount Sold                        133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                 0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                        874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
75age 4- of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.0      8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.3       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                           26.0        1.7     27.7
Repaid                        22.2         -       22.2
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      82.3        9.0      91.3
Undisbursed                   79.3        1.5      80.8



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 19/6
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, I198
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
Of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138  Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing ate:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 198)
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About three years
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Madhya Pradesh
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the project
September 1978; September 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1981
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to carry out the project schemes in
accordance with appropriate planning criteria,
design and construction standards and operational
procedures (paragraph 38).
(b)  GOMP to complete the MRP and HB schemes as soon
as technically feasible after the end of the
five-year time-slice (paragraph 39).
(c) GOMP to maintain its panel of experts with
acceptable qualifications, experience, and terms



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
of reference, which would review the plans and
designs of the dams and their associated
structures, and would conduct periodic reviews,
during design and construction, to examine
whether any new grounds for making changes in the
design of the dam have become apparent
(paragraph 40).
(d) After completion, GOMP to have the dams and
related structures periodically inspected to
determine any deficiencies that might endanger
their safety, and to propose appropriate
inspection arrangements for the Association's
review not less than one year before the expected
completion of each dam or related structure
(paragraph 40).
(e) GOMP to prepare for each dam not less than two
years before the submergence of any affected
land, a comprehensive resettlement plan,
including an implementation schedule agreed with
the Association, for the relocation of residents
in the reservoir areas, and to offer to people
ousted from the submergence area compensation
in the form of cultivable land (paragraph 40).
(f) GOMP to employ consultants to provide general
planning assistance and to undertake the survey,
planning and design of the irrigation and
drainage systems below the distributary canal
head regulators (paragraph 44).
(g) GOMP - with the objective of ensuring recovery of
operation and maintenance cost and, to the extent
possible, cost of infrastructure investment - by
December 31, 1983 to review the water and
water-related chages in Madhya Pradesh, and as
soon as feasible thereafter to introduce and to
enforce an appropriate system of water and
water-related charges (paragraph 62).






_ ___________________     ________               ___ ______________________________I___ _                                                                                                  lBUD    15146
R   A   J   A    S   T   H   A   N                                                        /          U     T    T       A      R           P     R    A             FD  E  S    H
H    TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GUJARATI  '' '                   A
M       A        H       A        R        A        5       H        T        R       A                            W   | /                                       R    I   5   5   A
INDIA
1   MADHYA PRADESH MAJOR AND MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS  '
=. v MMM p!b~~~TA                                   T..           ,         1%JbDRv4r  O  -AT S  TAT 
t STTTTA.,*,, TATTSA.'T    R RCrn-.FD       G,M1 .F Dn[b-T   ATAUAI A   'ElST
.   .  * s  Te~. T.AI le DSM: z if P:.T/TAT   - -TTAATST.TTUTOL1498S b\                                 /=
~~ ~ t <: R- UnDeu[D BAK~~ISt --aFhT l LJUCRt  .,/
..   s         [                                     -  H vauL                                       t   t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B/T?   |
_  N  J  J '  1  \ .$  M _'  ME $ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M .,MS M ~~~~~~~~~T



