OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1177 IN
Project Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1177 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATI    (hereinafter called  the
Association) and STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Madhya Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred ninety five million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 195,200,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that Madhya Pradesh agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS Madhya Pradesh, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise requi -, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) carry out the Project
described in qchedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, planning
criteria, design and construction standards and operational


﻿-2-
procedures; and (ii) provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the obligations of Madhya Pradesh under Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, Madhya Pradesh undertakes that: (i) sufficient staff
and resources, in particular construction materials, shall be
provided for the execution of the Project in accordance with an
implementation schedule agreed with the Association; and (ii) the
MRP and HB Schemes shall be completed as soon as technically
feasible after the Credit has been fully disbursed.
Section 2.03. In order to assist Madhya Pradesh in carrying
out the Project, Madhya Pradesh shall employ consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, for:
(a) providing general planning assistance in the Irrigation
Department of Madhya Pradesh; and
(b) undertaking the survey, planning and design of the
irrigation and drainage systems below distributory canal head
regulators to be constructed under the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Madhya Pradesh undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Madhya Pradesh
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Madhya
Pradesh shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) Madhya Pradesh: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Madhya Pradesh of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Madhya
Pradesh and the Association, Madhya Pradesh shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Madhya Pradesh and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.07. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.


﻿(b) Madhya Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Madhya Pradesh of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Madhya Pradesh undertakes to strengthen the
organization of its IrrMation Department by establishing for the
MRP and HB Schemes by   ?<>/?8'- the following additional
units at the offices respective Chief Engineers: (i) a Planning
and Design Unit; (ii) a Quality Control Unit; and (iii) a Per-
formance Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, each unit with staffing
agreed with the Association.
Section 3.02. Madhya Pradesh shall establish by         0
/9g2, within each of the Command Area Development     horities for
the MRP and RB Schemes, a monitoring and evalua ion unit with
staffing agreed with the Association.
Section 3.03. Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) furnish, by March 31,
1983 to the Association for its review the terms of reference for
a detailed management study to establish rules, procedures and
requirements for effective operation and preventive maintenance of
the MRP and HB Schemes; (ii) carry out such management study; and
(iii) promptly inform the Association, separately for the MRP
and HB Schemes, of the annual financial and otber allocations made
for the operation and maintenance of said schemes.
Section 3.04. With the objectives of ensuring recovery
of annual operation and maintenance costs, and to the extent
possible, cost of infrastructure investment, having regard inter
alia, to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Madhya
Pradesh undertakes: (i) by December 31, 1983, to review the
water and water-related charges in Madhya Pradesh, and (ii) as
soon as feasible thereafter, to introduce and to enforce an
appropriate system of water and water-related charges based on
recommendations arising from said review after paying due regard
to the Association's comments, if any, on such recommendations.
Section 3.05. Madhya Pradesh: (i) undertakes not to provide
irrigation water for summer paddy during the construction period


﻿- 5 -
of Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) shall accord the
lowest priority to the allocation of water for the irrigation of
summer crops.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of resettlement of families
displaced from areas submerged as a result of the carrying out of
the Project, Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) not less than two years
before causing submergence of any land covered by the Project,
formulate a resettlement plan, including an implementation
schedule agreed with the Association; and (ii) as part of said
resettlement plan ensure that such families are offered land
suitable for cultivation.
Section 3.07. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall: (i) maintain its
panel of experts with qualifications, experience, and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and Madhya Pradesh, to
review the plans and design of the dams and their associated
structures and their adequacy; and (ii) cause said panel to
conduct periodic reviews during design and construction to examine
whether any new grounds for making changes in the design of the
dam have become apparent.
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement Madhya Pradesh shall under arrangements satisfactory to
the Association and Madhya Pradesh cause the dams and the related
structures constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order
to determine whether there are any deficiences in the condition
of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
of methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, Madhya Pradesh shall propose to the Associa-
tion appropriate arrangements for the Association's review not
later than one year before the expected completion of such
structures.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Madhya Pradesh shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operation related to the Project; and (ii)


﻿-6-
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of such year.
Section 4.02. Madhya Pradesh shall have its departments
and other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association immediately following
its finalization, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association such other information concerning said accounts
and records, financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Madhya Pradesh thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Madhya Pradesh of this event.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Madhya Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Vallabh Bhavan
Bhopal
India 462006
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhopal
India


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Madhya Pradesh may be taken or
executed by a Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh or
such other person or persons as Madhya Pradesh shall designate in
writing, and Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their reprebentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By
Authori d Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Madhya Pradesh shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Madhya Pradesh shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 11 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Madhya Pradesh may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be
asked to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required
to determine whether, according to the classification accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Madhya
Pradesh, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $6,000,000
or less per contract may be procured on the basis of competitive


﻿- 12 -
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association, it being understood that: (i) where
such competitive bidding is not possible civil works may be
carried out through piecework contracts; and (ii) force account
may be used only when required by safety and quality considera-
tions or when quantities cannot be estimated in advance with
sufficient precision, provided, however, that the aggregate cost
of civil works carried out through piecework contracts shall
not exceed 15% of the total cost of civil works and that the
aggregate cost of civil works carried out through force account
shall not exceed 10% of the total cost of civil works.
2.   Contracts for light equipment and vehicles and for instru-
ments may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Madhya
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Madhya Pradesh and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Madhya Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Madhya Pradesh shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Madhya Pradesh
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198FA


