Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7697-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Customs Institutional Strengthening Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 10, 2009
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7697-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 10, 2009, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(
“Borrower”) as represented by its SHCP and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth 
in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million twenty five thousand Dollars 
($10,025,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the 
Director 
Internacional
 of NAFIN or any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in 
writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN) at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
ac
cepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower (or NAFIN at the request of the Borrower) has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time 
to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through SAT in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any of the parties to the 
Contrato de Mandato
 shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato. 
 
(b) 
The SAT Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived 
or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.  
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any of the 
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period 
of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly executed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) the 
Borrower 
(in 
SHCP’s and SAT’s legal opinions) and NAFIN (in a separate 
legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to 
the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on October 21, 
2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, t
he
Borrower’s Representative is 
the 
Titular de la Unidad de C
rédito Público 
of SHCP.  The authorized representative to 
make requests for Currency Conversions on behalf of the Borrower shall be the 
Titular de 
la Unidad de Crédito Público 
of
SHCP or NAFIN’s 
Director Internacional
 (or any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose). 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
Page  6
-5- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Mark V. Hagerstrom 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of t
he
Borrower’s custom 
processes and, therefore, improve the Borrower’s competitiveness and facilitate trade 
with foreign parties. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1
:
Institutional Re-design
Provision of technical assistance and training to increase the efficiency of the Borrower’s 
customs cycle, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
development of principles and policies to guide the Borrower’s customs services, 
as well as development of a new customs process model;  
 
(b) 
modification of the Borrower’s regulatory framework as required to implement 
the principles and policies developed under Part 1(a) above;  
 
(c) 
re-design of key custom processes in order to re-design AGA’s information 
systems;  
 
(d) 
implementation of the re-designed key custom processes referred to in Part 1(c) 
above; and 
 
(e) 
strengthening of SAT’s risk management procedures for the control of customs 
operations. 
 
Part 2
:
Human Capital
Provision of technical assistance and training to increase the professionalism and 
capacities of AGA’s managers and staff.    Activities under this Part include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
development of a human resources planning methodology, based on productivity 
parameters, to allow an efficient response to demands and changes in the customs 
process;  
 
(b) 
strengthening of AGA’s process to hire and promote staff;  
 
(c) 
development of a comprehensive training program and plan for AGA’s staff, 
including training in the new processes to be implemented under Part 1(c) above;  
 
(d) 
development of a service career scheme for AGA, individual staff career plans 
and succession plans for key positions within AGA;  
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
(e) 
development of a new performance evaluation system for 
AGA’s staff;  
 
(f) 
simplification of the regulatory framework and procedures for the separation of 
AGA’s staff; and 
 
(g) 
carrying out of activities to strengthen AGA staff’s ethical behavior, leadership 
within its management, 
esprit-de-corps
,
and results-oriented and service-oriented 
culture. 
 
Part 3
:
Change Management
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) communicate the changes in AGA’s 
processes undertaken through the Project to internal and external stakeholders; and (b) 
ensure the understanding of these changes, and the involvement and engagement with the 
Project of said stakeholders.  
 
Part 4
:
Project Administration and Management
Provision of technical assistance to coordinate and manage the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements. 
 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SAT, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of 
the Operational Manual 
without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SAT, shall maintain an operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying 
out of the Project, including: the procurement, financial management and disbursement 
requirements thereof.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAT, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, in SAT, at all times during Project implementation,  an implementation 
team, within SAT’s regular structure, with an organization, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of said team to coordinate and monitor the carrying 
out of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the project implementation team referred under Section I.A.3(a) 
above is, at all times during Project implementation, led by a Project coordinator 
who is assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including 
procurement and financial specialists), in numbers and with experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B.
 
Contrato de Mandato 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de Mandato
), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among SAT and NAFIN, whereby: 
 
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to the Loan, 
meaning that, 
inter alia
,
NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower 
vis-
à-vis
 the 
Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in 
form and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to the 
Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees to maintain and operate the designated 
account (referred to in the additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) in compliance with the terms of this Agreement; 
and 
Page  10
-9- 
 
(b) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SAT, the Borrower shall cooperate fully with 
NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of 
NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in Section I.B.1(a) above.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de 
Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of 
any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato 
and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Borrower, through SAT, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of Key Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAT, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through 
SAT, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end 
of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAT, shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes effective.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 Goods. 
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions.  
The Borrower, through SAT shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after the Project has 
been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or 
as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress 
and supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan 
immediately thereafter.
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
Page  12
-11- 
 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1.
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures and the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
Page  13
-12- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Consultant 
Services, and Training and 
Workshops under Part 1 of the 
Project 
 
6,500,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Consultant 
Services, and Training and 
Workshops under Part 2 of the 
Project 
 
2,400,000 100% 
(3) Goods, Consultant 
Services, and Training and 
Workshops under Part 3 of the 
Project 
 
500,000 100% 
(4) Goods, Consultant 
Services, and Training and 
Workshops under Part 4 of the 
Project 
 
599,937 100% 
(5) Front-end Fee  
 
25,063 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest rate Collars 
(amounts due under section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement) 
 
-0-  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,025,000 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Section IV.A the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
“Training and Workshops” means reasonable expenditures incurred in connection with 
the provision of training and workshops under the Project, including study tours, travel 
expenditures, site rentals, materials, and per diem of trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
Page  14
-13- 
 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve (12) 
months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
 
Page  15
-14- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2026. 
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AGA” means the Borrower’s General Customs Administration (
Administración General 
de Aduanas
), an administrative unit within SAT. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through SHCP, SHCP’s SAT and NAFIN (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to Section 
I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
progress towards the attainment of Project objectives referred to in Section II.A of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.. 
 
8. “NAFIN” 
means 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C
.,
a
Mexican development bank serving as 
the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
9. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, dated April 15, 2009, as said manual may be amended from time to time with 
the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
23, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. “SAT” 
means 
Servicio de Administración Tributaria
,
the Borrower’s Tax Administration 
Service, a deconcentrated unit within SHCP and created pursuant to the SAT Law, or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  17
-16- 
 
13. 
“SAT Law” means the Borrower’s tax administration law (
Ley del Servicio de 
Administración Tributaria
)
published on December 15, 1995
 in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
), and entered into effect on July 1, 1997, and 
said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law and regulations have been 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System. 
 
15. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Finance and 
Public Credit Secretariat.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date. The Bank shall 
pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
Page  18
-17- 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  
 
