Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3980-MAt
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.7 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMlC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 7, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00:           UM 80.00
UM1,000:            US$12.50
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French development
bank)
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French agency for technical
assistance and grants)
FAO/CP    Food and Agriculture Organization/Bank Cooperative Program
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW       Kreditantstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German aid agency)
MDR       Ministare du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Devel-opment)
OMVS      Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (Senegal
Valley Development Authority)
SONADER   Societe Nationale pour le D6veioppement Rural (National Rural
Development Authority)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:   SONADER, the National Rural Development Agency
Amount:        SDR 7.7 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
On Lending:    Proceeds of the credit would be passed on to SONADER as a
Terms          government grant.
Project        The project would provide for the construction and initial
Description    operation of 75 small irrigation perimeters of 20-25 ha,
totalling 1,600 ha, in the upstream zone of the Mauritanian
bank of the Senegal River. It would provide: (a) pumping
sets; (b) farming inputs; (c) services of eight Mauritanian
professionals to provide agricultural extension, and pump
maintenance and repair service; (d) housing and working
facilities for these professionals; (e) service of two
expatriate technical assistants to assist SONADER in
supervising construction of the perimeters; and (f) vehicles
and topographic/office equipment to strengthen SONADER's
regional offices responsible for these perimeters. A
special account would be established under the project to
expedite disbursement.
Benefits       Annual incremental production of edible grain at full
and Risks:     development would be about 10,000 tons, double the country's
present level of irrigated grain input. The project would
increase the income of 2,900 farm families. The measures
designed to increase cost recovery would eventually permit
all existing and future perimeters to be financially
independent. The risks are smail: peasants are bighly
motivated and have proven their capacity to construct and
manage their perimeters under the effective supervision of
SONADER. Moreover, since each perimeter would be an
independent unit, problems that might develop in one
perimeter would not affect the project as a whole.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricialduties. ts contents maynot otherwise be disclaosedwthout World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs 11:
Local       Foreign        Total
---US$ million------
Perimeter Development             1.0           2.6            3.6
Inputs                            0.0           0.5            0.5
Supporting Services               1.3           0.8            2.1
Total Baseline Costs              2.3           3.9            6.2
Contingencies
- Physical                      0.2           0.5            0.7
- Price                         0.9           1.0            1.9
- Implementation delay          1.1           0.9            2.0
Subtotal                      2.2           2.4           4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           4.5           6.3           10.8
Financing
Local       Foreign        Total
-- -----US$ million---    -
IDA                               3.1           4.4            7.5
IFAD 2/
- incremental expenditures      1.1           1.9            3.0
- non-incremental farming
iuputs                     -              -             0.4
Government                        0.3           -              0.3
TOTAL                           4.5           6.3           11.2
Disbursement Schedule
(IDA Credit)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Annual        0.4    0.9    1.3    1.5    1.2   1.0   0.7   0.4   0.1
Cumulative    0.4    1.3    2.6    4.1    5.3   6.3   7.0   7.4   7.5
Rate of Return:   25Z
Map:              IBRD No. 16569
1/   Net of taxes which would be waived.
2/   Includes USS0.4 million of IFAD's contribution to SONADER's
rehabilitation plan.



- iii -
Staff Appraisal: No. 4269-MTT
Chart:            SONADER ORGANIZATION CHART, World Bank 24028
a



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of SDR 7.7 million (US$7.5 million) to help finance a Small Scale
Irrigation Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional
financing will be provided by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) througb a loan of SDR 3.5 million equivalent (US$3.4
million) repayable over 50 years including 10 years of grace with a serxrice
charge of 1 percent annually.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania - Recent
Economic Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated
June 4, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Since then,
a number of missions have visited Mauritania to monitor the economic and
financial situation and prospects of the economy. Updated country data are
given in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Mauritania bears many of the characteristics of the "Least
Developed Countries" in terms of its physical and human resources, despite
a level of per capita income (US$460 in 1983) somewhat higher than that of
the world's lowest. Three-quarters of the country is desert or
semi-desert, the principal economic activity being livestock herding. Crop
farming is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone in the south, where
rainfall is nonetheless sparse and irregular. Pockets of modern economic
activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate, the fishing center of
Nouadhibou and the administrative capital of Nouakchott. These centers are
geographically separated from the agricultural zones, and there is little
economic interaction between them and the rural sector.
4.        The three centers of modern economic activity account for a major
share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop farming,
which support as much as 70 percent of the population, account on average
for about 25 percent of total output. The mass of the population (total
1.6 million) suffers from an extremely low standard of living, as reflected
in key social indicators: life expectancy at birth is estimated at 45
years, infant mortality is 132 per 1,000, only one in every three children
of school-age attends primary school, and less than 20 percent of the
population is literate in either of the two official languages, Arabic and
French.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.        Led by increases in iron ore production, Mauritania's GDP
sustained an average annual growth rate of 8 percent during the 1960's.
The economy experienced a sbarp deceleration in growth in the mid-1970's,
however, and a period of marked financial instability in the latter part of
the decade. Principal factors were reduced world demand for iron ore, on
which the country had been dependent for 70-80 percent of its export
earnings, and the effects of severe and repeated drought on output in the
rural sector. These factors were compounded by prolonged military conflict
in the Western Sahara and a poorly conceived investment policy. The
investment program was stepped up in the mid-1970's to rates approaching 40
percent of GDP with the support of heavy inflows of foreign assistance,
particularly from OPEC sources and commercial lenders. These resources
were used principally to finance the nationalization of the mining sector,
ambitious projects in transport infrastructure and a xew large industrial
ventures which were to prove unviable.
6.        The effects of depressed iron ore earnings, droughit and a
generally weak record of economic management in the mid-1970's brought the
country to financial crisis by 1977. The Government's current expenditure
requirements that year reached a level nearly double its receipts,
producing a Treasury deficit equivalent to 16 percent of GDP. On the
balance of payments the country suffered a severe drain on its reserves
despite massive inflows of foreign grants and loans. The Government which
took power in 1978 immediately adopted a stabilization program which called
for rescheduling more than $200 million in debt service obligations, tight
controls on the Government wage bill and a reinforced tax collection
effort. The growth of the Government's current budgetary expenditure was
curbed, and the earlier drain on the country's foreign reserves was
arrested. Modest boosts in iron ore and fisheries production and the
stimulus of a new investment effort temporarily enabled the economy to pull
away from the stagnation which had characterized it since 1975 and to enjoy
a brief three-year period of growth averaging 4 percent per annum during
the period 1979-81.
7.        The improved performance of the economy could not be sustained,
however, in the face of a fallback in mining production and the recurrence
of drought. Iron ore production fell by more than 20 percent in 1982-83 to
a level only 65 percent of that registered 10 years earlier.  Witb rainfall
only about 20 percent of normal levels in the 1983/84 season, the livestock
herd suffered major losses, and cereals production met less than 10 percent
of total demand. Aggregate output of the economy fell by 2.2 percent in
1982, rose by 6.6 percent in 1983 (due to distress sales and offtake in the
livestock sector and otber exceptional factors) and stagnated in 1984. In
tne absence of sustained growth, per capita incomes today are essentially
unchanged in real terms from those of a decade ago.
8.        The failure of the mining sector to underpin growth of the
economy in the 1980's marks a major reversal of expectations at the outset
of the current Five-Year Development Plan period, 1981-85. On the
assumption of gradual recovery in the world steel industry and a consequent
near-doubling of Mauritania's ore production, mining was expected to resume



- 3 -
it's role as the economy's motor of growth through at least the first half
of the decade and to ensure the domestic resources to effect the
development strategy adopted for the 1980's: to eventually shift the base
of the economy from its exhaustible mineral resources to alternative,
renewable sources of growth -- irrigated agriculture, livestock and
fisheries. The need to ensure future mining capacity and at the same time
to diversify the economy has resulted in Mauritania's maintaining its
record for some of the highest rates of investment registered among
developing countries. Gross capital formation averaged $240 million
annually through a peak period, 1981-83, or 35 percent of GDP. Continuing
high levels of investment have reflected the completion of large projects
in the transport sector begun in the late 1970's and, simultaneously, the
execution of the $500 million Guelbs mining project, Gorgol Irrigation and
*           other major projects undertaken in the framework of the 1981-85 public
investment program. Additionally, a spurt of private sector investment in
fisheries was made in the early 1980s in response to Government initiatives
to promote national exploitation of these formerly foreign-controlled
resources.
9.        Given the performance of the mining sector and drought-induced
shortfalls in rural production, Mauritania's inability to maintain
satisfactorv rates of growth have sharply aggravated its exceptional
dependence on foreign resources to meet consumption as well as investment
requirements. Whereas the external current account deficit had been held
in check at an average 22 percent of GDP in the 1979-81 period and the
overall balance of payments maintained in approximate equilibrium,
Mauritania's external position bas substantially weakened since 1982.
Despite a strong rise in earnings from fish exports (estimated at $135
million in 1984 closely rivalling earnings from iron ore of $150 million),
the current account deficit expanded to an average 33 percent of GDP in
1982-83. Though in part the result of exceptionally heavy foreign-financed
mining investment, the expansion of the deficit was unmatched by a
corresponding increase in capital inflows, forcing a massive drawdown of
Central Bank reserves (cumulative $77 million in 1982-83). In 1984 the
payments crisis was modestly eased by a decline in cereals imports,
replaced by exceptional receipts of food aid, and a reduction in other
general imports induced by a downward adjustment of the ouguiya exchange
rate of 19 percent in relation to the US dollar. Further losses in
official reserves were nonetheless incurred (US$33 million), and by
end-1984 payments arrears on external medium and iong-term debt had mounted
to an estimated $95 million.
The Recovery Program and the Current Outlook
10.       Mauritania's balance of payments and budgetary situation thus
remains extremely weak, requiring continuing adjustment measures over the
medium term and heavy support from abroad in the form of financial and
technical assistance and food aid. The gradual depreciation of the ouguiya
during 1984 was one of a series of recovery measures in the areas of
exchange rate and price policy, fiscal administration, the public
enterprise sector, the banking system and the public investment program
towards reducing external and domestic imbalances to sustainable levels and
maximizing the modest prospects for the economy in the medium term. Such



- 4 -
measures are being pursued in the context of the Government's 1985 Economic
and Financial Recovery Program. In January 1985 the Government reached
agreement with the IMF on a proposed Stand-By arrangement for SDR 12
million. In accordance with that agreement, it undertook in February 1985
a further 19 percent effective devaluation of the ouguiya in domestic
currency terms and increases in cereals prices at both producer and
consumer levels ranging from 12-50 percent. The Government also agreed to
raise interest rates to levels which are positive in real terms and to
restrict credit expansion. The IMF Stand-By would be put in place
following successful negotiations with Arab and Western bilateral creditors
to fill the projected 1985 financing gap of about $200 million.
11.       Successful implementation of the Government's Economic and
Financial Recovery Program, supported by the international community, is
critical to the medium-term outlook for the economy. With disciplined
economic management and well-conceived measures to exploit Mauritania's
limited resources, modest but sustained growth in output is possible.
Rural sector production should recover moderately from drought-induced lows
of 1984. Although international iron ore markets are not expected to
recover significantly through the 1980's, it is possible for SNIK to
continue to improve the cost effectiveness ef its operations. In the
livestock sector, some time will be needed to reconstruct the herd
following the heavy mortality and accelerated offtake over the past two
years. In the period ahead, irrigation development will increasingly
contribute to food supplies, ever though cereals production will remain
highly vulnerable to the effects of drought. In the fisberies sector, now
a major source of foreign exchange and budgetary revenue, growth could
remain strong for another 3-4 years, but would then level out if resources
are not to be over-exploited. Under favorable assumptions, overall growth
of the economy through the remainder of the 1980's could average 3.5
percent annually, or 1.0 percent ahead of the projected rate of population
growtb.
12.       In an effort to tap the growth potential of crop agriculture, the
Government gives primary emphasis to irrigation. Climatic vagaries in the
major food producing zones of the Senegal River Basin are such that fully
controlled irrigation is considered by the Mauritanians to be the most
feasible means of narrowing the country's exceptionally wide food deficit.
In favorable years, domestic foodgrain production meets 35-40 percent of
demand. In 1984 under conditions of extreme drougbt domestic production
met less than 10 percent of demand. In order to stabilize and expand
production of foodgrains, particularly rice, the Covernment has launched a
major irrigation program under the IVth Plan. Whereas less than 2,000 ha
were under irrigation at end of 1980, the Government hoped to be able to
bring an additional 10,000 ha under irrigation by 1985.
13.       This target has now been revised downward as a result of the high
cost of infrastructure, the paucity of indigenous technical expertise and
the very fundamental socio-economic changes brought about by irrigation
development. In view of the constraints faced by large scale irrigation,
priority is currently given to exploiting the potential for small scale
s&emes. The experience gained in small scale irrigation is expected to
then serve in the implementation of the larger schemes and consequently in



- 5 -
effecting the very difficult structural changes called for in the
Government's development strategy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
14.       As of FY84 the Bank Group has had 19 operations in Mlauritania for
a total of US$212.6 million. Of these, two are Bank loans for mining
operations (US$66 million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in
1979 for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project). The other 17 are IDA credits
totalling US$86.9 million. Of the IDA operations, five have been in the
transport sector, six in the rural sector, two for education, two have been
technical assistance projects for economic planning and there have been
0           separate projects for urban and rural development and petroleum
exploration. IFC has no operations in Mauritania. The Bank Group's
presence in Mauritania was fairly substantial in the early 1970s, and in
1970-72 it was the third largest donor providing about 18 percent of
Mauritania's external capital assistance. Since then, external financial
assistance to Mauritania from other sources has increased rapidly and at
present, the Bank Group's share in Mlauritania's external capital assistance
amounts to about 8.0 percent.
15.       Until the mid-seventies Bank Group strategy for Mauritania
focussed on financing traditional projects mainly in agriculture, transport
and education. Since the mid-seventies this assistance has been broadened
increasingly to address the institutional weaknesses of country economic
management, investment planning and project implementation which had
manifested themselves during the last decade. In 1978, the Association
assisted the Government in designing a financial and economic
rehabilitation program for which the first Technical Assistance Project
(FY77) provided the expertise. Assistance for the formulation of
macro-economic policy, a medium and long-term development strategy, and
investment programs is being continued under a Second Technical Assistance
Project (FY82), which is also helping to develop a pipeline of feasible
investment projects other than mining (iron ore) on which the country can
no longer solely count for sustained economic growth. The objective of
this assistance is to institute a much more thorough evaluation of
investments than occurred in the past especially to avoid large, capital
intensive projects with low productivity and unsatisfactory rates of
return. Priority will now be given to projects aiming at the
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure, and encouraging
only those new investments that demonstrativelv promise a high rate of
return.
16.       Following a comprehensive review of the public sector enterprises
financed under the first Technical Assistance project, assistance was also
provided to the Interministerial Committee for the Rehabilitation of Public
Enterprises in the preparation of a medium-term rehabilitation program for
the public enterprise sector. This program sets forth measures to increase
the efficiency of the existing enterprises through selective actions of
rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation and outlines rehabilitation
programs for several of these enterprises including actions on pricing
policies, personnel adjustments, streamlining of management and appropriate



- 6 -
maintenance of equipment. In support of this program a Public Entetprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project is scheduled to be
presented to the Board of Executive Directors during FY85.
17.       In order to address Mauritania's severe balance of payment
problems, tight fiscal situation and its inability to service its public
debt problems, the Association in close cooperation with the IMP is
assisting the Government in preparing a Rehabilitation Program (1985-89)
which will need to be supported by both debt rescheduling and non-project
aid. To back-up these efforts, our country and economic sector work has
been intensified and will include sector papers on fisheries, education,              a
energy and urban development. Provided that a Second IKE Standby
arrangement is approved and satisfactory progress is made in the
implementation of economic recovery measures, a Consultative Group meeting
will be organized to obtain donor support for the Rehabilitation Program.
18.       Professional training of Government officials remains an
essential ingredient of IDA assistance to overcome the acute shortages of
trained local staff at all levels, which constitute a major difficulty in
project implementation. Through project aid and technical assistance,
efforts have been made to strengthen vocational training for the modern
industrial sector and farmers training, in parallel with broadening access
to prima.-y education. Nonetheless, shortages of pupils completing
secondary and vocational schools with satisfactory results remain critical
and explain the low productivity of employees in the modern sector. As a
consequence technical assistance should continue to be an important part of
project financing.
19.       Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding accesE to primary
education, improving vocational training in the modern industrial and
commercial sectors, and training of lower secondary school teachers to
replace a substantial number of foreign technical assistants on expensive
contract basis. Future IDA assistance should continue to focus on the need
to reduce technical assistance personnel. The Government recently
requested the Association to assist the Government Education Reform
Committee in the review of key sectoral issues, a clear definition of
overall long term objectives, the formulation of policies, the preparation
of an investment program to increase efficiency of education and training,
and the reduction in recurrent costs to lower the large share of education
(30 percent) in the national budget. Additional sector work is being
initiated for this purpose.
20.       Assistance to agriculture will be continued since this sector is
still considered Mauritania's principal source of growth over the longer
term, despite its weak base and extreme vulnerability to drought, and the
high cost of investments caused by difficult physical conditions, limited
transport infrastructure, and the high level of technical assistance
needed. Through the Second Technical Assistance to the Rural Seccor
project (FY83), rural institutions will be strengthened and efficient
incentives developed by addressing such fundamental issues as input and
product pricing, subsidies and land tenure. The proposed project would
continue IDA assistance to the on-going irrigation program, emphasizing the



participation of beneficiaries in construction, maintenance and operation
to keep investment costs down. A Second Livestock project (FY86), would
improve livestock production, strengthen services and - based on
encouraging experience in Niger and Mali - establish pastoral cooperatives
on a trial basis with grazing rights allocated to identifiable land areas.
This would enhance renewable resource management through greater
involvement by the pastoralists themselves. In the fisheries sector, wbich
could be an important source of future growth, a sector study has been
prepared to assist the Government in the elaboration of a sector strategy.
The objective is to enable Mauritania to capture a larger share of the
benefits currently reaped by foreign trawlers operating along the coast.
Once this strategy is in place, a fisheries project could be considered.
21.       In the energy sector, our assistance consists of supporting the
Government's search for oil through the Petroleum Exploration Project
(FY82) and carrying out an energy assessment to recommend strategies and
policies aimed at improving energy demand management, devrelop indigenous
energy resources, strengthen institutions, and identify specific areas for
follow-up technical assistance, based on which a future operation could be
developed. The Association is also helping Mauritania to evolve an overall
strategy for the urban sector. Urbanization has grown dramatically in
recent years while appropriate measures to adjust to this development have
not been taken. Sector work is being carried out to gather detailed
knawledge of the urban requirements and to examine the wider urban policy
issues in the context of Mauritania's overall development aspects.  This
sector work may lead to the design of an urban project later in this
decade. To assist in Mauritania's efforts to diversify employment and
sources of income, financing was provided to encourage private enterprise
through the Mauritanian Development Bank (Credit 888-MAU) and to promote
artisanal carpet-weaving activities. A Second Industrial Development
project to be presented soon to the Board would further pursue these
objectives and through studies develop appropriate policies for improving
subsector performance and possibilities of further expansion of the
manufacturing sector.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
22.       Two-thirds of Mauritania lies in the Sahara zone with less than
100 mm of annual rainfall. The rest is in the Sahel with a maximum
precipitation of only 600 mm. Thus, Mauritania has one of the poorest
agricultural resource basis of all countries in West Africa. The rural
sector provides the livelihood for about 70 percent of the population and
contributes about 25 percent of the GDP with some 65 percent of the rural
population involved in nomadic herding. Sedentary agriculture is limited
to a relatively narrow strip along the Senegal River, a small area
(Guidimaka) in the south where local precipitation allows rainfed cropping,
some oases in the north, and few isolated regions where shallow lakes make
flood recession cropping possible. Insufficient and erratic rainfall has
been the major barrier to this sector's growth, aggravated in the past
decade by the recurrence of serious droughts.



-B-
Livestock
23.       This subsector, which accounts for 80 percent of the output of
the rural sector, is the largest single contributor to Mauritania's GDP (20
percent), larger than mining. However, the livestock population of cattle,
sheep and goats was cut in half by the effects of the droughts of the
mid-1970s; at present there are about 1.4 million cattle and 5-6 million
sheep and goats. Shortages of fodder during the dry season are among the
major constraints to livestock development. Cattle are also threatened by
diseases. In the late 1960s the Government carried out a systematic
campaign to eradicate rinderpest, the main animal health bazard.  Follow-up
of this effort is insufficient and, although occasional outbreaks have been
controlled, the threat nonetheless remains latent and requires the
continuation of vaccination campaigns.  In 1971, IDA financed a livestock
development project (Cr. 273-MAU. US$4.15 million), whicb provided for
rehabilitation and construction of wells, construction of firebreaks. and
vaccinations. It was completed fairly successfully in 1978. Experience
during and subsequent to this project suggests that although there is some
potential for increasing the herd size, there ia also a risk of major
losses during drought periods. Thus the future for livestock lies more
with improved animal health and husbandry practices than herd expansioll.
Non-irrigated Agriculture
24.       Along the Senegal and the Gorgol Rivers. farmers grow rainfed
millet, flood-recession sorghum, and some vegetables. Yields are low due
to the use of traditional cultivation techniques as well as irregular
flooding and rainfall. In favorable years production of sorgbum and millet
is about 40,000 tons which satisfies only 15 percent of domestic demand of
food. In drougbt years, rainfed production may be redtuced by 50 percent or
more. Expansion or improvement of rainfed agriculture is tecbnically,
financially and economically non-viable and farmers will not risk investing
where there is substantial probability of loss due to drought.
Irrigation
25.       Irrigation was not started until the 1960. and by the end of 1982
about 4,000 ha had been developed, half being small perimeters of about 20
ha and half two large projects, namely Mpourie (1,400 ha) and Kaedi (700
ha). Of the small perimeters, about 1,700 ha have been sponsored by the
Government, with external assistance from the European Development Fund
(FED), the French Agency for Technical Assistance and Grants (FAC), IDA and
the Wetberland. The remaining few hundred hectares are either entirely
private or sponsored by non-governmental organizations. The record has
been mixed, but small perimeters have performed far better than large ones.
During the Fourth Development Plan period (1981-1985), a further 10,000 ha
were to be irrigated, with 3,300 ha threugh small perimeters and the
remaining 6,700 ha through larger projects. However, the targets of most
large scale projects bave been revised downward as a result of serious
problems experienced by these projects (the largest one, the Gorgol Noir,
wbich is financed by IDA and other donors, has been scaled down from 3,600
ha to 2,000 ha). Thus, it seems now more realistic to estimate that by
1990 the additional irrigated erea will be of the order of 6,500 ha which



- 9 -
is already a formidable challenge to the implementation and management
capacity of the Mauritanian institutions. Large-scale irrigation may
eventually be possible from the two major dams on the Senegal River
(Manantali and Diama) that are being constructed by the Senegal River
Development Office (OMVS), a trinational (Mali, Mauritania and Senegal)
entity financially supported by several bilateral and multilateral
agencies. Although the irrigation potential in Mauritania from the
reservoirs may be up to 100,000 ha. there are major technical,
institutional, economic, financial and sociological problems which would
need to be first resolved.
Institutions
26.       While OMVS is in charge of planning and supervising the
regulation of the river and associated power and transport investments, the
development of irrigated perimeters renains the responsibility of the
member states. In Mauritania, the Mini:try of Rural Development (MDR) is
in charge of water resources development. Under this Ministry. the
National Rural Development Authority (SONADER) was set up with donor
assistance in 1975. SONADER was, however, entrusted with excessive
responsibilities, including the planning and design of rural development
projects, execution of works by fcrce account, the operation and
maintenance of projects, and the provision of support services (farming
equipment, extension, credit, input distribution, and marketing). As a
result, the agency incurred serious financial and functional difficulties
which the Government and the donors tried to overcome with a series of
technical assistance projects, not always well coordinated. In 1983, the
Mauritanian authorities undertook an in-depth revision of the tasks and
structure of SONADER.  An outline plan was agreed between SONADER and its
do,nors in October 1983 and finalized in April 1984. According to this plan
SONADER will in future prepare irrigation projects and supervise their
implementation, but will relinquish any direct involvement in project
implementation. Maintenance of pumps, suppLy of inputs, agricultural
credit and marketing activities will be transferred to the private sector
or existing banks, which will deal directly with the cooperative groups
concerned within each project. The Government and SONADER have committed
tbemselves to complete these steps through L987.
27.       The serious financial problems faced by SONADER were another
inevitable consequence of the agency's over-ambitious mandate; budgeting
provision for current expenditures have been consistently lower than actual
costs, resulting in a growing gap far beyond the Government's financial
capability. Without any other income. SONADER incurred heavy debts (at
present UM 108 million, equivalent to about two years of headquarters'
budget), which brought the institution almost to a collapse. At a meeting
held in Nouakchott in November 1984, Government and representatives of
SONADER's donors agreed on a financial rehabilitation plan which will
assure SONADER's financial requirements for the period 1984-86 (these
requirements have been estimated to total UN 387 million). The
Government's and donors' shares would be about 40 percent and 60 percent,
respectively. By having secured financing for its operating budget and ics
projects' non-incremental costs through direct donors contributions SONADER
will be able to retire its debts with the Government budgetary allocations.



- 10 -
IDA will use the savings (US$2 million) realized under the Credit for the
Technical Assistance Project to the Rural Sector (Cr. 1414-MAU) as its
contribution to SONADER's rehabilitation. These savings have materialized
as a result of the scaling down of the agency's responsibilities. IDA's
contribution has been earmarked to finance SONADER's 1984, 1985 and 1986
budgets.
28.       The Government has already contributed UM 38 million to SONADER's
financial rehabilitation in 1984. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government will establish a Rehabilitation Fund for
SONADER and deposit in this Fund by December 31, 1986 the outstanding
balance of its contribution (UM 110 million). (Section 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).) As part of SONADER's rehabilitation,
the Government has also agreed during negotiations that starting from the
1985-86 season, SONADER will sell farm inputs at their full cost (Section
4.03 of the draft Project Agreement (PA)) and, no later than January 1,
1986, will eliminate all subsidies on fertilizer prices (Section 5.02 of
the DCA).
Government's Objectives and Strategy
29.       The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development as the key element for economic growth. The Government's main
objectives for the rural sector, as stated in the 1981-1985 Plan, are
threefold: to increase food production, both of cereals and animal
products; to protect and rehabilitate the environment; and to reverse the
steep increase in urban migration. These objectives are reasonable, as is
the proposed strategy of investing in projects with the least possible
recurrent costs and substantial beneficiary participation. The Government
recognizes that little can be done to increase rainfed crop production and
that the undertaking of over-ambitious irrigation projects entails serious
problems, both technical and financial. It has tberefore given primary
emphasis to small scale irrigation. In view of its tight fiscal situation
and the difficulties in servicing its debt, the Government is reviewing its
agricultural investment program within the framework of its economic
recovery plan now under preparation with the assistance of the IMF and IDA.
Sector Issues
30.       Three main issues affect the rural sector in Mauritania.  First,
institutions are weak due to the acute shortage of trained personnel. This
means that projects should be of an appropriate scale, and kept simple.
Government has not hesitated to obtain technical assistance from several
external sources, both to train staff and to fill line positions, and such
technical assistance will be required for a long time. But partly because
the institutions are weak, Government is under no illusions about the
capability of the public sector. More than in many other countries,
Government relies on private initiative in the rural sector and hence has
not set up a plethora of public institutions that would be difficult to
dismantle, and seems determined to avoid the kinds of mistakes that have
been made elsewhere. Second, investment costs are very high, due mainly to
the difficult physical conditions, as well as recourse to higb-cost
expatriate manpower. This reinforces the point that projects should be



- 11 -
kept simple. Third, policies on prices and subsidies are urban-based, thus
reducing production incentives. There have, however, been recent
substantial improvements in producer prices for rice, sorghum, millet and
maize which have now reached the level of border prices. Also, wholesale
and consumer prices for food aid and imported rice have increased
substantially and should reach import parity level by 1987. Furthermore,
the proposed project includes specific measures to reduce subsidies
(para. 46).
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
31.       The proposed project would be the seventh Bank Group lending
operation in the rural sector. The first six operations were: a livestock
development project in FY72; a Drought Relief Fund project in FY73, under
which IDA financed a small irrigation subproject; the Gorgol Engineering
project in FY74, which prepared the final engineering designs and tender
documents for the Gorgol Irrigation project; a first Technical Assistance
project to the rural sector in FY77; a small irrigation component under the
Urban and Rural Development Fund project in FY79; the Gorgol Irrigation
project in FY81; and a Second Technical Assistance project to the rural
sector in FY84. Project performance audit reports have been issued for the
first four operations. Common problems have included: (a) slow
implementation arising from administrative inefficiencies within the
Government. a consequence also of the acute shortage of trained local staff
at all levels, although there was a notable improvement in SONADER under
the first Technical Assistance project; (b) cost overruns partly due to
slow implementation and exacerbated by the exceptional political situation
that prevailed up to 1979; (c) difficulties in obtaining the counterpart
funds. Despite the above problems the four projects have reached an
acceptable degree of success. The lessons learned from the past experience
have been taken into account in the design of the new projects. In
particular, more attention is being given to the selection and training of
staff and an effort is being made to keep the projects simple and on a
scale more in line with the country's scarce financial resources and
limited administrative capacity. Cost recovery elements are also being
introduced wherever possible to reduce the financial burden on the
Government. The ongoing Gorgol Irrigation project, the first large
irrigation scheme to be developed in Mauritania experienced considerable
problems. These were, however, due mainly to the project design which
proved to be too ambitious for the country's conditions, especially as far
as the project's operation and maintenance aspects were concerned. The
project was recently scaled down considerably and its design simplified.
Project beneficiaries are now involved in the construction of on-farm works
and manual farming practices have been introduced in lieu of the initially
foreseen heavy mechanization. With these changes, the results of the first
farming season, which was completed in December 1984, have been
encouraging.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       In March 1982, the Mauritanian Government confirmed earlier
requests to IDA for assistance with the financing and implementation of a
small scale irrigation project. Based on a preparation report completed in
December 1981 by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, as well as experience
acquired with the irrigation subsector in the course of supervision of past
and ongoing projects, a Bank mission appraised the project in May 1982.
The time taken to process this project has been unusually long because the
project processing was halted several times as a result of (a) a delay by
the Government in paying US$1.0 million equivalent to SONADER, which was a
condition of Board presentation of the IDA-financed Second Rural Sector
Technical Assistance Project, and (b) subsequent delays in reaching a
satisfactory agreement among the Government and the donors on the
functional and finarcial rehabilitation of SONADER (paras. 26-28). The
processing of the proposed project resumed when an agreement was reached on
this issue in November 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington
February 11-15, 1985 with a government delegation led by Mr. Ba Oumar, head
of the Finance Department, Ministry of Planning and Regional Development.
A delegation of IFAD also participated in the negotiations. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "The Islamic Republic of Mauritania: Small Scale
Irrigation project (No. 4269-MAU) dated March 4, 1985 is being circulated
separately. A supplementary project data sheet is presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The proposed project would be the next step in IDA's continuing
program of support for irrigation in Mauritania. The project would be part
of SONADER's ongoing program of development of small scale irrigation, to
which IDA has contributed twice through a subproject of the Drought Relief
Fund Project (FY73) and a stibproject of the Urban and Rural Development
Fund (FY77). The key features of small scale irrigation are the
participation of the beneficiaries in the construction, operation and
maintenance of their perimeters, and low investment cost. The proposed
project would contain two innovations, designed to provide a greater
assurance of sustained success, and their successful realization would be
an important project ob'.ective: all new perimeters would be of at least 20
ha, in order to permit an adequate spread of fixed costs; and changes in
current practices would be made to obtain increased cost recovery in order
to permit more financial autonomy for the small perimeters. The project
would also bring about a significant contribution to food production.
34.       The project would provide for the construction and iuitial
operation of small perimeters of 20 - 25 ha, each served by a pumping set,
in the Gouraye and Kaedi sectors, the most upstream zone of the Mauritanian
bank of the Senegal River. It would include:



- 13 -
(a) development of 75 perimeters totalling about 1,600 ha;
(b) provision of 75 pumping sets for these perimeters plus 20
additional stand-by sets;
(c) provision of farming inputs;
(d) provision of vehicles, topographic and office equipment;
(e) construction of housing and working facilities in Gouraye;
(f) provision of technical assistance to SONADER to supervise the
construction of small perimeters (two expatriate irrigation
engineers); and
(g) provision of technical assistance to project beneficiaries in the
form of agricultural extension services (eight Mauritanian
professionals), organization and management of cooperatives (two
Mauritanian professionals) and pump maintenance and repair
service (four Mauritanian mechanics),
35.       The project would finance the construction of two types of
perimeters. Type A perimeters would be constructed entirely by the
beneficiaries themselves. SONADER's role would be to design the perimeter
lavout, supervise the construction, undertake the minor cement works at the
stilling basin, and install the pump set and accessories. These perimeters
would be built wherever the site conditions permit; only 25 such sites have
been identified in the project area. Type B perimeters would be built on
more difficult sites, where the terrain requires earth-moving that exceeds
the capability of the beneficiaries. Such works would be undertaken by
contractors, under the supervision of SONADER, but perimeter construction
would otberwise be identical to Type A perimeters. There are 50
appropriate sites for Type B perimeters in the project area.
Project Execution
36.       Responsibility for the execution of the project would rest with
SONADER. SONADER has begun work on the final designs for the 50 Type B
perimeters, for which the mechanical earthworks would be undertaken by a
contractor in the 1985-86 dry season. To supervise these works, and to
organize and supervise the works to be undertaken by the beneficiaries' own
labor, SONADER would set up two construction brigades, each headed by an
expatriate irrigation engineer with three construction superintendents.
37.       SONADER's regional offices at Gouraye and Kaedi would be
strengthened in order to be able to provide supporting services to the
groups of beneficiaries on the new perimeters. These services would
include input delivery, maintenance of pumping equipment, advice on water
management, and advice to the group on managing perimeter affairs,
including accounting. Each new perimeter would receive the advisory
services on a systematic basis for the first three years of operations.
Input delivery would be a continuing operation until such time as
alternative suppliers become available. Similarly, pumping equipment



- 14 -
maintenance would be continued until alternative mechanical services became
available. The project wr ld provide the staffing, training and additional
facilities required to ens.re reliable pumping equipment maintenance
services.
Project cost and financing
38.       Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties which would
be waived, but including contingencies, are estimated at UH 866.7 million,
equivalent to US$lO.B million, of which 58 percent would be foreign
exchange. In addition, project beneficiaries would provide US$0.6 million
equivalent through their sweat equity contribution. A summary breakdown of
costs is shown in the credit and project summary at the beginning of this
report.  Base costs have been set at January 1985.  Physical contingencies
to allow for variations in quantities have been estimated as follows:
earthworks, 25 percent; construction materials, 15 percent; pumping
equipment, 15 percent; farming inputs, 20 percent; and operating costs of
vehicles, 25 percent. Price contingencies have been calculated at the
following annual percentage rates:
1985       19B6        1987       1988        1989
Foreign costs          5.0        7.5         8.0        8.0         8.0
Local costs           10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0        10.0
Although project design is fairly simple and no major difficulties are
expected, experience demonstrates that IDA-financed irrigation projects in
West Africa have a disbursement period of eight-and-one-half years after
Board presentation. To allow for cost overruns derived from delay in
project execution, cost estimates have been revised assuming an
implementation period of eight years. Under this hypothesis, the project
cost, including physical and price contingencies, would be US$2.1 million
higher than the cost corresponding to a five-year implementation period.
This difference is added to project cost as a contingency for
implementation delay. The average unit cost of developmeut works is $2,800
per ha, including physical contingencies, but excluding price and
implementation delay contingencies, which is very reasonable for
Mauritanian conditions.
39.       IDA would provide a USS7.5 million credit for this project.
Jointly with an IFAD loan of US$3.0 million. The IDA credit would cover
about 97 percent of the total project cost (100 percent of foreign cost and
96 percent of local cost). IDA's and IFAD's funds would be disbursed on
the basis of a 70:30 ratio. The government share in the financing of the
project would only be 3 percent. In addition to its share in the financing
of the project, IFAD would contribute US$400,000 toward SONADER's financial
rehabilitation. IFAD has earmarked the amount for financing of recurrent
fertilizer imports, thus freeing the equivalent amount of government money
(to be deposited in the Rehabilitation Fund) that SONADER would use to meet
its obligations. The effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the appointment of
IDA by IFAD to administer IFAD's loan would be conditions of effectiveness
of the IDA credit (Section 7.01 of the DCA).



- 15 -
40.       In view of the financial constraints the Government is currently
facing, it would be essential to prefinance some operational costs.
Therefore, an amount of SDR 520,000 from the IDA credit and the IFAD loan
would be deposited in a Special Account to be held in local currency at a
commercial bank. Opening of the Special Account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the DCA). The account would be
replenished upon receipt of satisfactory evidence for expenditures,
provided that such expenditures are eligible. Management of the account
and preparation of Statements of Expenditures would be the responsibility
of SONADER. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Special
Account would be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (Section 3.02(b) of the DCA).
Procurement
41.       Two contracts for civil works totalling US$1.6 million would be
awarded through Limited International Tender (LIT). Pumping sets and
fertilizer would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB). Other goods would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages which, for values above US$50,000 would be
procured through LIT, for values below $50,000 (it is not expected that
such procurement would exceed $250,000) could be procured by other
procedures acceptable to the Association. Consultant Services totalling
USS 1.5 million would be procured according to Bank guidelines.
Procurement arrangements for both IDA and IFAD funds are summarized below:



- 16 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Items to be procured                     Procurement Method        Total Cost
ICB       LIT    Other
Civil Works
Earth works                                      1.4                1.4
Buildings                                        0.2                0.2
Goods
Pumping equipment                       1.6                         1.6
Construction materials                           0.7                0.7
Vehicles                                         0.5                0.5
Fertilizers                             0.3 1/                      0.3 1/
Spare parts                                      0.1       0.1      0.2
Fuel, lubricants                                           0.3      0.3
Other equipment                                            0.1      0.1
Services
Consultants engineers 2/                                   1.5      L.5
Local staff & operating cost
of supporting services                                   4.0      4.0
Total Cost                              1.9      2.9       6.0     10.8 1/
Amount to be financed by IDA             (1.3)    (2.0)    (4.2)    (7.5)
1/ Does not include the US$0.4 million worth of fertilizers, to be used
off-project, which would be also procured through ICB and financed
100% by IFAD.
2/   Two senior irrigation engineers over four years at the base cost of
US$120,000 p.a.
Disbursement
42.       Disbursement of the IDA credit and IFAD loan would be on the
following basis: for civil works 100 percent of expenditures; for
construction material, equipment (offices and workshops) and vehicles 100
percent of expenditures; for consultant services 100 percent of
expenditures; for operation and maintenance of vehicles 80 percent of
expenditures; for salaries of local staff 90 percent of expenditures; for
agricultural inputs 100 percent of expenditures; for non-incremental
agricultural input (solely financed by IFAD) 100 percent of expenditures.
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for local staff
salaries, operation and maintenance of vehicles and for expenditures under
contracts below US$10,000 equivalent for which Statements of Expenditures
(SOE) would suffice; supporting documentation of SOEs would be made



- 17 -
available to IDA supervision missions, and be explicitly examined during
the audits.
Accounts and Audit
43.       SONADER will establish and maintain separate project accounts in
accordance with sound and generally accepted financial practices. An
auditor's opinion and report acceptable to the Association on such
accounts, as well as on the Rehabilitation Fund (para. 28) and the Special
Account (para. 40) will be provided within six months of the close of the
financial year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, especially
regarding the reliabilitv of SOEs (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the PA).
Prices
44.       Market prices for cereals are primarily determined by Government
policy on the selling prices of concessionary food aid as well as
commercial rice imports. Government food aid policy has recently changed,
due in part to the advice of the main food donors, resulting in a
significant improvement in the incentives offered to domestic cereal
production. In February 1985, the Government raised wholesale prices for
food aid cereals from UM 15/kg to UM 22.5/kg in Nouakebott and from UM
14/kg to UM21.5 in the interior. One of the objectives of the recent price
increase was to eliminate the distortions caused by low consumer prices for
food aid cereals. The increase in consumer prices was accompanied by
increases in official producer prices for cereals. Producer prices for
sorghum, millet and maize were raised from Um 15/kg to UM 21/kg and paddy
producer prices from UM 12.5/kg to UM 14/kg. The higher consumer and
producer prices should have a stimulative effect on domestic production.
45.       Up to February 1985, input prices were at full cost and tax-free
with the sole exception of fertilizer for which a subsidy of about 50
percent was provided in relation to the border price. All fertilizer was
sold at UM 12/kg regardless of composition and location. In February 1985,
Government reduced the subsidy on fertilizers by 50 percent, and will
totally eliminate the remaining subsidy on January 1, 1986 (para. 28)
Cost Recovery
46.       The current practice for small scale irrigation schemes is that
beneficiary groups repay one-half of the price of the first pumping set and
two-thirds of the price of the replacement set at an interest of 8.5
percent over a four-year period. Auxiliary materials and installation are
provided by SONADER at no charge to the group. Except in the first season,
when all inputs are supplied at no charge, users pay fuel, lubricants,
spare parts and the salary of the pump operator, but labor and other
maintenance and repair costs are borne by SONADER. These arrangements
imply a high level of subsidy no longer justified in view of the increase
in producer prices (para. 44). During negotiations agreement was reached
that, beginning with the 1985-86 season, SONADER would sell inputs at their
full cost (Section 4.03 of draft PA). Agreemeat was also reached that
SONADER would study the feasibility of (a) introducing full cost charges



- 18 -
for mechanical services required for pumping equipment repair (study to be
completed by December 31, 19B6); and (b) eliminating the subsidy on the
first replacement pump set (study to be completed by December 31, 1988).
i.e. three years after starting irrigation and before the first replacement
pumping sets are expected to be sold. (Section 4.04 of the draft PA.)
Financial Implications for the Public Sector
47.       Under the proposed arrangements, Government's direct contribution
would be 3 percent of project costs, about UM 24 million, which would be
financed by a budgetary allocation to SONADER. At full development,
SONADER would withdraw all extension agents, charge out or disband its pump
repair services, and its only unremunerated services would be for input
logistics, farm management advice and, perhaps credit recovery.  The cost
of these services would be about UK 6 million per year, at constant base
costs, wbich the Government would have to continue to provide to SONADER
after project completion. Project beneficiaries would at full development
be making an aggregate incremental income of UM 65 million/year. An
unknown part of this income would be spent on taxable goods from which
Government would derive revenue, and Government's breakeven share would be
1OZ of beneficiaries' aggregate income. Plausibly, this would be realized
by beneficiaries spending 50 percent of their incremental incomes on goods
bearing an average tax rate of 20 percent. Thus the incremental revenues
are expected to cover the recurrent costs of the project.
Benefits and Risk
48.       About 2,900 farm families (20,000 people) would directly benefit
from 1,600 irrigable hectares on the 75 new perimeters. Average
witbout-project incomes are about 15 percent below the critical consumption
level (CCL), estimated at 60 percent of per capita GNP, while witb-project
incomes would be about lOX above the CCL. Incremental annual output would
be about 3,500 tons of paddy, 6,000 tons of maize, 500 tons of cowpeas and
10,000 tons of hay and straw. The continued implementation of the measures
designed to increase cost recovery would permit the financial autonomy of
the small perimeters. The estimated economic rate of return over 20 years
is 25 percent. The social rate of return would be even larger, since the
distributional impact of the project would be to benefit small farmers.
The risks are small; in particular, since each perimeter would be an
independent unit, problems that might develop in one perimeter would not
affect the project as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and SONADER, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
50.       Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Project Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.



- 19 -
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness include: (i) all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan have fulfilled; (ii) IFAD
bas appointed the Association as Cooperating Institution to administer the
IFAD loan; and (iii) the Special Account has been opened (Section 7.01 of
the DCA).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Developmen t Credit.
Attachments
Washington, D.C., March 7, 1985



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TA LI IA                                           Page 1 of 5
MACU PAUlA             -    ASOCAL INDICAT0M  DATA SAE?B
U    4grA        ~~MOST                (MOTHNT EBV     STDIAWft 
RCgIME      MlDDUL SGGR             MSt Dk
16oL0      u,ical    iSgttit       AFRICA S. Op SANARA   N. AFRICA A MID EAST
TOTAL                               1030. 7      030.?      10)0.7
AGRICULTURAL                        391          393.3       39
Go  -  ClA (Urns)                      100.0        210.0       470.0             1112.9                  1149.6
grSZ CUW MMCM
(KLDGRm  or OIL EQUIVALENTI         12.0        115.0       132.0              529.0                  .22.1
poWInaT   An VIL UTATlSTIS
POPULATIUN.MID-?EAR tWMOUSANDS)     970.0       1214.0      159L.0
UIIU 7oPMATION CI  O TOTAL)           3.4         12.5        25.0               29.?                    46.2
POuLATION PROICTION3
POPMIanON INW  S 000 (HI m L)                                2.3
STATIOURY POPULATION (MILL)                                   .2*
POPULATION "MCUiTm                                           1.9
POPUATION DENSITY
pF  Sq. I.                          0.9          1.2         1.3               n3.                     36.3
Pn sq. CM. ACRS. LAID               2.5          3.1         4.0              111.3                   461.7
POPULATION AC STRUCTE CZ)
0-14 IRS                          4.0          45.3        *6.2               45.4                    43.6
15-6 4IS                           53.3         52.0        50.8               51.7                    33.1
65 ANDASVE                          2.7          2.7         2.7                2.9                     3.3
POPULATION 00WCH  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               2.2          2.2         2.3                2.6                     2.5
UallAN                              1.2         15.5         6.1                5.2                     4.5
cRE 53I2T3 PATC (PER THOUS)          50.7         49.9        63.4               47.0                    40.4
CRUDE DCAII RATE (PM TOS)            27.1         22.9        19.4               15.2                    11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4         2.4                3.2                     2.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOIS. USUAL (tMOUS)             ..
USERS t: OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..           ..         1.0 e               ..                    22.2
FOOD AM STSll
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-7 t-100)                      107.0        102.0        7.0                 1.6                    97.
PER CAPILA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES Ct OF REQUIRECtS)         93.0         65.0        97.0               98.2                   110.8
PROTE1INS (CRAMS PEX OA)Y          80.0         73.0        75.0               56.7                    70.1
OF WHICH ANZIMA  ANID PLSE       51.0         49.0        4 .0 /d            17.0                    17.8
C41LD (AGES 1-4) DEAIH RATE          45.0         36.1        27.0               18.7                    14.6
L:FC EXPECT. AT 3:R-'J (YEARS)       37.2         40.3        44.8               51.7                    57.5
,vIFlNU   ffORT. RATE CPEM  THOCS)  178.0        161.9       132.0              102.7                  101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE AA       (%POP)
-O-AL                                ..         17.0          ..               35.6                    59.7
LURFA                                *-         98.0        L6.0 to            54.1                   84.5
RURAL                                *-         10.0          ..               27.3                    3L.4
ACCESS TO EXCR%A DISPOSAL
(I OF 1POPLATION)
TOTAL                                 .          7.0
URBAN                                ..        100.0
aLRAL                                                      ..                ..
POPULATION  PER PNSCAL            &0O.0        17850.0    16350.0 /d          11946.3                 4343.1
POP. PER NLRSISC PERSON            3630.0 /If   .450.C      208.0 C            Z2428.9                 1831.1
pOP. Pu IOSP-TAL lED
.OTAL                          '760.0       2890.C      261C.0 'd.,         984.9                  632.9
L3AN                                 ..        700.2      1310.0 /d.s         368.7                   545.5
REltAL                           521:?.0 Ij,j 5370.0      3710.0tj.g         *C1.1                   2313.5
A:>IISS;0IS   PR HOSPITAL SED          ..           ..          ..                 ..                    26.:
AVEXACE S_.E OF HOSENOLD
.OAL                                 .            ..
LRBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERCE SO. OF PR>SONSIOlO
AL                                   ..           ..          ..                 ..                      .
'-N                                  ..           ..          .                   ..
REL                                   ,           ,,    . -    .                 . _-_
ACESS TO ELECT. ( DF   l2:NCS)
TAL                                  ,,           ,,          ..                 ..                    *6.
t3BN                                 ,,           . .                            _                     7,
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..                 ..                    ILl



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TA I L!  3A                                    Page  2  of  5
MAURITANIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAUXITANIA                           REFERNCE GROUPS (WELCTmD AVERAGES) /a
KOST                 (NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME          mIDDLE TNOClE
I9bOLk    1970o      ESTINIATI.t   AFRICA S. Of SAHARA    N. AFRICA A MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RArIOS
PRLMARYA   TO'rAL                   8.0         14.0        33.0               91.0                   88.3
MALE                    13.0         20.0        43.0               90.5                   102.5
FEMALE                   3.0          8.0        23.0               73.6                    73.6
SECONDMAR: TOTAL                    0.4          2.0        10.0               17.4                   43.0
1ALE                     1.0          4.0        16.0               Z3.7                    52.3
FEKMA                    0.04          ..         4.0               14.8                    33.0
VOCATIONAL CE OF SECONDARY)            ..         12.5         4.5                5.3                   10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRwu                               20.0         24.0        41.0               38.6                   30.3
SECONDARY                          17.0         24.0        25.0 lh            24.3                   23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (S)               5.0 It      10.0        17.0 /h            35.6                   43.5
COmttlm
PASSENGER CARS/THDUSAND POP           0.4          3.4          ..               20.7                   17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAIID POP        12.4         45.3        98.5              100.8                  138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..           ..          ..               18.5                   46.1
NEWSPApER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              ..          L4 f         *-               17.2                   31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDAJICE/CAPITA       ..           ..         0.3 /d             0.3                     1.7
LAV veB
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           299.0        362.0       454.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.8          4.1         4.3               33.8                   10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              91.0         sa.O        69.0               57.1                   42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENr)                  3.0          4.0         8.0               17.4                   27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.9         29.8        28.4               36.3                    26.2
HALE                               59.8         57.8        54.3               47.6                   46.4
FEMALE                              2.3          2.4         2.4               25.1                    5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.5          1.6         1.7                1.4                    1.8
EN  01DESmTIUnIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
HICHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20: O  HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 20S or HDUSEHOLDS             ..
LowEST 40: oF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
nrM TOUCU CROON
ESTMTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URIAN                                ..           ..          ..              5Z5.3                  274.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       110.0 lb           249.0                  177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URliAN                               ..           ..       330.0 /h           477.4                  402.6
RURAL                                ..           ..       12O.O lh           186.0                  284.9
ESTLATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (:)
URAN                                 ..
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT  E S
/s  The group averages for each indicator are populAtion-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators dependa on availability of data and in not imifore.
/b   Unless otberwise noted. "Dcat for 1960" refer to mny year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" berween 1969 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Eiat ie" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Ages 12-50 years; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1962; tL Covernment hospital establishmnts; h 1978; A1 1963; Li 1972.
JUNE. 1984



V-= bbiwd .3. - A. _~III 13-13313413 P-si
33T- i -       334 3S-0   433343 -1 3334     t 343-94   4  hi.)
J. ...34  3349888 .13 3 3443.4-    349. 49 343393, .43S I* 11
3134003  3334  3i  344 1        3349453w  145    :1434 in              ..
.31    4411        -   341 --344.34 . =433   -d 333913 ALs4n3
ins    r                                                     343  .134383 '433413344 933933.14 3443-il.  45-  343,mAdd
943444im    13.3a   393343  433-43                                                                                           ...44434*                                on-4ea~9431   .al  i.  *
-IA1-TIl SN.    333613 P.   34T.   133.... d."In33341~3  3138311                                                                     '3O4331   *           ww.         am 
- ;9.        bl349   344   34.i.j..  13   -    3    333
A.4::'-443'333444  i   3153 134   3 M          AM         r  * .
,...43144 3-4 11l31 .424
.33-                                           9149 3343 349~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M 344  043 "44"W" Ml 
I-I'4  A. (33443344     1t_. .S333S81.34tq 3.I        S. l43.1 3434134."
'333.9A181* ~   ~       dA,     A  _   -     ,-               w         ;     ;.'          .; '413
3331   3441I3~P11-a334344315  149431314  ii84iI33~                             *ji  33.44  *4.4.  1349 131 P   w.41  hi 33          dd 34   1i391    34a1V, 534113
r . 034        ~33n 34i 13.1 33341 441133 ~j..8  333-.4 343    p- di4                     j..441  - 31.  443 34     b.3 434 .-I3a  34"..P.3:
-  334  4434.-   33  3 54 3433333  4  413*4 3334)4  33413)                                449  4.  34  3j3I 1...3 4J.l3 -;.P514 AL33
~.414  i41343344.343431833i-   34                  3        A33434       0 1138   9343.  4  3.-11    ...41333
34    1 31 4913    33           V . 44148a   ..5 .. I   3i!3.!f1- A.                    Z8 i9943114344359.3331   . 81333a44i3:
T~~~~~~~a33. F                          413                           -.          .         3 14*-Sl. )141!433*  13
3  4333  4441443-  9.1  '  34  3  434  13.43**4~j.X!.8~                       4114 ~5*31333  3i3i1a349   33  -a9b               i4b       ~1.   4         3
.. 4339. 4.99. 44Ls. Z  1-14*  '1~i 3113,         1
1314   914343 ,                                                 '4 .3.. .4. '343=         43339)3   3193.4.44   43914
41 94  434 I4d     9331344   334      34   41433   18.i3    4   93   319113.4-934314   44i4   133
:At-I.. -   ". i- A. " -34813-a  A333434  3433341  3                                   642      -334431 -4---3--4                  -------------4 119143114
*   94  4413.4  99 3434)43  43  3 493454  343433334i4'34- 941  844.439i~~   41i4344J'4.4  4  39131. 33   4153
443 M431413 3Z '5  44.443 313           P 1 1444I'333  53  I 91.  W433 '43                   3334'3119.441391'*3)6343l4'3
---Aa.   34i**..ina.333   431    443                               -8413  3   41  9341334I3~   33  3.3   334"3154
14  311113   ".34- A3333  -43   343--,   -A  3333143 3A3*                               V- 3- 3.4--3.1143.                                     A44-43I.
..P                ......33  131--34394'0'3-4:11*33   1a  33431   333933.13.-  34
V     9439 234. 1                                           ....
III.  A-  - - M Il1 -1331                                             4343 1 4333.4                   338. 3313 3  341  -1142   141
-44    341  33423949 33341 3139  1333934 134 -341 3343   143 3434                                                                                                '3k4
3414     Id441339 3433.3313-   3134 11s    413311W                                        4  '-.u14 A3344  3314  84.43  .413   33333 1I4
30143  13-4    3313134  4344334j3.43313  843344133334339   3A38   88.a43  4   33.415334331  113
'4_43    - 14583 3133413 A      33.134  1313             --P.338 .413              I. 13    A I3 I.         94   3444   4934-43   3183334433
*344   A  3819  39.13343)443434   3  1343  3333                                                                         )94434'4414~34131
334 S1343333  34VAV A.84.-II.   43 334  9443.841 333  31Z4.I343'~~    3                                                         ~I'.             4341418
A    _I=     dd-W   J. ..4414433133                                       943343'344f43.9  333-  4344.54143381443:334V.34
943  3.4334.  ~~~   98443333  3343831 3493.-I..A343-I3A33                                                    I.33434434'333   949     AIIII.p34   343331
1  P.3 3133138              IT44w                                                       ....339339   84   14   3443   I-%'.             V Z.44.4    914~34841.3*18333133
_~~Ei                 V. -33    3-94314   4333 A3,II - 41114 14-44   3433 3A          ~  34*
'3) 99 34831.3933  4334383839~*1~~3  1 313131813             33433*13'J.3  8943144  33 ..34,..              V3.,837 
393313394  3131  31  81.PR. .3331 A33'3  8A 33   33                                 '39 P"   . .   33-3411933  4M.3 *3  143333   113    *343I
3-3313433 3341143.4139334   39196b   334314333434133   3333  49433144   3  9414311334343
Pt3931  33333933  33    33433 t31.13   343 .34111 131.t 4.3 M33  43 
314343*393 3-394433316349   53, A83 11113  11 34933 4334  33343                   V33A3311   9.34  4l33    44.33831                           3333933
14  44334133  4333 363.33  3  '333 344 33349  49434433344333438  433144413   1-3I3 .133 39334.334343.
434344833143448334149331334313334334M.,3445433                                          934   4334393.,             338484149  341434'93
3143334  3341  34931383 .33135 9.3 *  1*3) -  448  313331W894  343. 433134181.   333343414   33414433   33
'S3 P43  9311   A..34   333   1   315  3433444394334  4   3343433   34333   44'44331433
Ad44  f19333193333.3  8383313331433   4343?33  3333433333133' 335443A334  .  3393   3
133  3438349348-34 33943*   3313333 14  933343433. 1331*43443  3 391 3333 33A '-3,1..3.4433.3.'3.438 3434 A14I
31.193   39343334343933'43334   433o.43318                                                            3.  38  33333   994"31334114333  34
331433   334434343   3114-143                        43333331V                                 313333333334  34  3314343314339333433,31
P.3-  ,;34 333m31333-3133  9331-3493-33333  333-v1!W71W1
d ...AdIAWIT.                                                                                     .-A-V~33343   433394834934  33  3493  81343  33  ft- '334 -D43
.,P,.   I Addl." .6-4.ripqr434  44333    9.933  343333431443)  3413333 `4344
P.V                        A                                   k~~~~~~~~~~~43-   34   4   -Mft439  339143   13  13   93193   4-3
P..1331343443.1       1.33333  3339  94'38411333333134344334  33   313338*A43343X94'13
4333944443334  4~  3 I8i3843333  33534   3333343 3I3  1.3"I34  33333333,313344'3                                                     w33-13333
- 1338  44   348   3333 .13333119  3  133834 1333*43 3  33143831  .431.34 438  1.334331 441433  3143443  333.........43
'314334333344   433A.3439   1131933                                                     783-33334(33343
3433134483 344314.4.  9943  443343   '141 331343343 48                 131343  33  133314  143 4V          1  4333t814314   11
P.  -33A 313 f4 V3.                                                      -J4  3  ':*..P3.....3433                                                             ...3 93431   4433113..3934133443;
1316 933 434  12~33   3934344   843         -      m.            1.  31.93-3,I9it,33P..  333 33        .3! *444    J.4  3194. -,bb    .'...  d                   I
33934  3 441434  hhI1IrZ!I.-~4                                                                                  '3349..  3333 9I. .,W. W~J.
A.      9433331494            _    ..  t$I%.I..           AIa '   . AX                 .d.. .                     . .--.1  ..  % 33 3A33  333
'3 ft41391 34I 333391  33 4343  9311331 3 483                       39   3        834931 m -  933.. 33      ,3933  33 31443433  3             -8i33 n 4
944313353443333~4434544933  1831139333433'393931                          19384  '4894  4333  3334'1414 34 '3111  94  343 1433  4334
349148   43133444   433433433    933.'  333                                                           3333A3  43334333I  339'944131  4644336*3
T     44334433Y   8334439943   984'49314   83834



- 23 -
KMITALM    ~ ~        ~t 5 pages
F C   SIIDICAS0t5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~DII~ 
prcoqmc !UUicATOU
GROSS WATONAL PITODUCT IN 1983                                                                 A8L  PATE OF C3Up V' in conftUiet  ritee)
USs Pan            S                                 t9is-73 (AV.)      1UT;.41         1983
GIQ et KIMaet Pricee                          707.1           100.0                                 _.5                 5.0           7.1
Gross Domestic Tnvegtomt                      269.9           39.4                                 32.1                33.1         -J6.3
Gross Natia l Sawitg                           33.9            4.9
Current Accont Salence                       -228.2           32.3
sewortg of Goods. m                           372.9           52.7                                 -6.2                24.8          47.6
L arts of Goeod. 55                          -617.0           87.3                                  2.6                11.2          3.0
OT  I Lam    Ci AS PODIIUCTIVITY 17  13 n
Value Added                      Laor Pores                     V.A. Per Werbaw
!M$-Ru. -     2ThwO~i Z                                     2-ii     - E-
Auicultur.                   243.9        32.4                313.36      69.0                  778.5       67.0
Iundutry                     140.9        16.7                   36.3      3.0                3S831.5      236.1
ServTcee*nd  n allocated   367.9          43.9                  106.U     23.0                3,523.9      212.6
Total/Average             752.7       lO0.0                 454.0    100.0                 1,657.9      100.0
CUTTAL GoSkInrX rInWG!
UK  "In.            Percent of CDP
1R|-            1991         1980-C2 (Aw.)
Corrmnt Recepte                    3.873             21.4            16.3
curret lrzeediture               -11.316             27.3            24.2
Currant Balae                     -2._  3             5.9             7.4
Capital  xpeniture.                .4.586            11.1            15.6
Overall  ealene                   -7.029             17.0            23.1
External Assetace (not)            7.155             17.3            23.2
MuTy. CUDrT AND "ICES
!981       1982         1983
(NiUIDI UK Outstanding ad-Period)
MIby and quad-*May                             9.630      9.372        10.085
CldA4      CanGan                               2.43      3.681         4.216
Claiu- on Private Sector                       11.263    12.758        13.869
(Percenetage or Index Nmbero)
mey and Quagi-Nony   s a     of GDP              23.0      25.0          24.4
General Price Luig. (1930 - t00)                111.9     121.3         127.2
Annal Perentage Chansg  in:
General  rieg Index                             11.9        8.6           6.9
Claims on Gew enet                              49.5       51.2          14.5
Claims o  Pr. rat. Seceor                       11.7       14.3           3.7
NotC:  All conveions to dollro in trhi  table or% st the average ezxchnge rate prevalLIg durlng the perd coverd.
February. 1985



- 24 -
flrt s mal
?WA. VlRhl  AMlS CAPITAL nJm
3ALAfl nr PQISE fly PAWI9YS                                                                                   fllt-j Am.)
1911!       197              lull   1392           StIL                                              "RINI "
-            m~~~(ilitiaum r
tra  Ora                           165.3         53.3
fish Preiuest                      1313.1        41.5
tpe o   o mcIe.  I                   114.7        178.6           3442.3   312.2      172.9           All OthIr Caatstau                    3.7          3.7
l0    of oet dsr m                  -1U4.T                                                                  tutu                          27.          100. 0 *10-
eanie GaP (defictl * -T ot.al  21 0  410.3                                                                  TLO S.
nteries Paymme (me)                   -2.0        -14.6           -23.6   -36.9       -31.6
Wmrbru  U1StUe@                        14.3       -27.6           -20.6   -30.7       -23.0
Otber Fater pFmStl (met)              -5.I          1.5            13.9    1.6          16.6
be traleua                            31.2        Ila.,            61.         1TUINA. 53?. 1                           a. ot iacmar 31. 1933
litetu  am CEnsuS MOBEt          z       v       -rtr            - _t    -2
atms a
Dtre.  Pareip   aMam2                  10.3          6.6           22.3    16.9           .            PuhbLa Doet. mtL.  an utas                    1,1!1.1
Net N A LIT ParVtrC                     3.6        31.6           131.6   26.!         112.2           P ra"mgmta s     hitnge Dbe
DOahneresm                          (11.0)       (37.39)        (17.0) (222.0)    (194.3)             Tam  0tuasafLms  and DItgbhudS                I.!!a
A    ti.atae                         (-2.6)     (-32.1)          139.?)  -13.9)    (-22.61
Capital Owosso                          3.6        13.6            32.9    31.0         56.5
Other CapiLtal (mat)                 -16.2         -1             -16.7   -19.6          7.T                                    12 
tOther i}  m .                       z l St! ZI'
ftiamIO,ateei Invate Debt
otaul   estato       q   Dtalrae
came OftficiaL  aerme  (s.d Ye ar   63.7           56.6           179.7   125.3         91.2
Mut Official Raseres (am  7aa?)    16.3           -21.6          -136.2   -16.2        -64.7
rFsl amd Wistse Natelala
importe                           ..           ..
of fltigt etrlweu               9.9         30.6            61.9    63.n        51.6
.eports                            -            -               -      7.1        20.6
of  ilh: retrel_ls               -            -               -      7.1        20.0           13 1/IA LfohS  as eof Novemer 33. i9"
Ntmttalm3 an  DtaboraS              IC           TC
USI.WO - TS                         66.36        63.6a           6a.26   12.23       35.00          Untlahurmed                            .3         13.9
OataccsmAlm tnel. UntrAburad          il            !
I/  Raeto of debt seaies  to experta of god  ad  'em-facto  services.
Febroar'. 1935



- 25 -
Annex    IT
Page 1 of I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1984)*
Amount (less cancellations) 1/
-rS$ Million
Loan or
Credit Number    Year    Borrower      Purpose                Bank    IDA      Undisbursed
One Loan and Ten Credits fully disbursed                      66.0    39-8
888-MAU          1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                  8.0          1.48
1747-MAU         1980    SNIM          Guelbs Iron Ore       60.0                   0.37
1068-MAU 2/      1981    Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation               15.0          4.14
1175-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Petroleum                        3.0          1.59
1214-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Second Education                 5.7          3.36
1231-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Fourth Highway                   4.0          3.13
1292-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Second Technical
Assistance                   4.6          2.99
1414-MAU 3/      1983    Mauritania   Second Technical                 8.1          8.1 31
Assistance to
Rural Sector
TOTAL                              126.0    88.2        25.16
of which has been repaid         66.0      1.9
Total now outstanding              60.0    86.3
Amount sold                  63.4
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held bv Bank and IDA    60.0    86.3
Total undisbursed                   0.37   24.79        25.16
'1 Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1068-MAU, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar eauivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Not vet effective
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to
the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:
Timetable of key events
Time taken to prepare project:            18 months
Project prepared by:                     Government, Bank and Consultant
Identification:                          PAO/CP mission in January 1981
Appraisal mission:                       May 1982
Negotiations:                            February 1985
Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1985                                  )
Section II:
Special IDA implementation action
None
Section III
Special conditions
During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the
Government or SOJADER on the following principal points:
(1)  The Governmeut would totally eliminate the subsidy from the price
of fertilizers not later than January 1, 1986 (para. 28).
(2)  For the 1985-86 season, SONADER will eliminate the practice of
supplying free of charge all inputs for the first season; in
addition, SORADER will present to the Association: (l) before
December 31, 1986 a report on the feasibility of charging the
full cost of mechanical services required for pumping equipment
repair; and (ii) before December 31, 1988 a report on the
feasibility of eliminating the subsidy on the first replacement
pumping set (para. 46).
(3)  The Government will deposit in a Rebabilitation Account to be
opened by SONADER UN. 110 million by December 31, 1986 to enable
SONADER to pay off all its overdue accounts payable and debt
service (para. 28).
Conditions of effectiveness                                     -
(4) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the IFAD loan (para. 50).
(5)  IFAD to appoint the Association as Cooperating Institution to
administer the IFAD loan (para. 50).
(6)  Opening of the Special Account (para. 50).



-V4
-  ~  ~        ? /~~g    Rdk.0 ~~KA          A
IsC                                                               -
1-~~~~~00
n O              20       30      40                       <
IC I LOraETE RS
I144
F.ALGERiA                                            5
I r;o,mer!!-
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~~~~~~~~                                                                  KamrxfrI I 
Sahoro      I        
.   ,  M  A U R I T A N  I A       j
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                            -. e!d or. -r -SO  _       . a.f W.W 8- d  Dl b_ #soan h
AL                            A L I                                                               pr r         D_     .
g 3f \/ *_ .~ ~J Kr ece r  Xua re sor" ef~r efr' rir
I __



IBRD 16569
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL- SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LAR1`E IRRIGAION Pi RlMt I RS:
rXISTIING PErHIMETERS
PERIMETERS UNOER CONSTRUCTION
SMALL IRROGATION PLRIMETERS:
T TYPE A. EXISTING
o    TYPE A. PROPOSfD
A    TYPE H. PROPOSF D
2       IRIlCATL5 THE NUMBER OF
IHRIGATION PtRIMETERS AT ONE SITE
-        , -                                                             PAVtED ROADS
t v                                                                            LATERITE  EARrH HOADSj
- -                                          -  - -  TRACKS
|O%\   _>M sIDUT                                        RIVERS AND INTERMITTENT STREAMS                 l-
C.   CITIES
    REGIOhAL CAPITAL
i   SCHIOULED AIR SERvIr.
---<K    |  \                                    _    SONADER OASES
Y  S                                             AREAS SUDJECI TO INUNDATION
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-id Al                                                              'S
3                                J*                                                                            INSFT
- .   INDICATES THE TERRltORY OF THE 'OHMER
%YWTAnr 'Ylle   2  .   \                SPANISH SAHARA IWESTERN SAHARAI
XS               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  \   (L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SE LIH B
102~~~~~~~~~*
7" BAKE  .  I , 
e, *1 ' \ 'l
01A
~~@4A4     ~         24A
0 fW                                                 , .    \      4 I .          _r
13o                               M    A            I
13'                                                                                     17'






