Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYF
Report No. 4 2 6 9 -MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 4, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:       Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00:            UM 80.00
l'm 1,000:           US$ 12.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                    0.98 long tons
1 hectare (ha)                 :    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               :    0.62 mile
1 millimeter (mm)                   0.04 inches
1 ton/hectare (t/ha)           :    890 pounds/acre
ABBREVIATIONS
CSA       Commissariat à la Securité Alimentaire (Food Aid Commission)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (French aid loan
agencc y)
CCL       Critical Consumption Level
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (French aid grant agency)
FAO/CP    Food and Agriculture Organization/Bank Cooperative Program
FED       Fonds Européen de Développement (EEC aid grant agency)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW       Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (German aid loan agency)
MDR       Ministre du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
OMVS      Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Sénegal
(Senegal Valley Development Authority)
PPV       Petit Périmètre Villageois (Small Irrigated Perimeter)
SONADER   Société Nationale pour le Développement Rural (National
Rural Development Authority)
SONIMEX   Société Nationale d'Import-Export (State trading company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED  IN PROJECT  FILE .............................                               iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                        .....................  iv-v
I.      BACKGROUND .................................................                                1
A.   Project  Background .....................................                             1
B.   The Rural  Sector .......................................                             1
C.   Sector  Strategy  and  Issues .............................                           2
II. SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION                                       ..                                4
A.   Village  Perimeters .....................................                             4
B.   Past Developments  and Present  Situation ................                            5
C.   SONADER ................................................                              6
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ...........................................    10
A.   Physical  Features ......................................    10
B.   Socio-Economic  Features ................................    il
C.   Institutions,  Infrastructure  and  Services ..............    12
D.   Land  Use  and  Farm  Income ...............................    13
IV.     THE PROJECT................................................                               13
A.   Objectives  and  Summary Description .....................    13
B.   Detailed  Features ......................................    15
C.   Preparation  of Final Designs ...........................    18
D.   Execution  of Project Works .............................    18
E.   Agricultural Development ...............................    19
F.   Operation  and Maintenance  of Pumping  Sets ..............    20
G.   Organization  and Management ............................    21
H.   Cost Estimates .........................................    21
I.   Financing ..............................................    22
J.   Procurement ............................................    23
K.   Disbursement ...........................................    24
L.   Monitoring  and Evaluation ..............................    25
M.   Accounts  and Audit .....................................    26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Mauritania  in  April/May   1982.    Mission  members   included  Carlos  G.  Moret
(Leader), Thomas Bredero, Jean-Claude Fayd'Herbe and David Steeds (Bank)
and Charles Tribèche (Consultant). Figures were checked by Jann Masterson.
The report was typed by H.G. Tran and edited by Michèle Moriarty.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Page
V.   MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................  26
A. Markets ................................................  26
B.  Prices .................................................  27
C. Financial Implications for Beneficiaries and Cost
Recovery   ............................................  28
D.  Financial Implications for the Public Sector ...........  30
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .31
A. Project Benefits .31
B. Economic Analysis .32
C. Risks.33
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECO COENDATION     ..34
ANNEXES
2-1   Data for the 1980/81 Season
2-2   SONADER Organization Chart
2-3   SONADER:  Summary Financial Statement
3-1  Key Climatic Data
3-2   Irrigation and Pumping Requirements:  Rainy Season
3-3   Irrigation and Pumping Requirements:  Dry Season
4-1   Proposed Perimeters:  Gourave Sector
4-2   Proposed Perimeters:  Kaedi Sector
4-3   Vehicles and Equipment
4-4   Earthworks:  Preliminary Quantities Estimate - Gouraye Sector
4-5   Earthworks:  Preliminary Quantities Estimate - Kaedi Sector
4-6   Agricultural Inputs, Outputs and Pumping Requirements
4-7   Staff Requirements
4-8   Irrigation Development:  Detailed Cost Estimates
4-9   Farming Inputs:  Detailed Cost Estimates
4-10  Supporting Services:  Detailed Cost Estimates
4-11 Projected Schedule of Expenditures
4-12  Projected Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
5-1   Farm Budget Financial Data:  By Crop
5-2   Farm Budget Financial Data:  By Cropping Pattern
5-3   Farm Family Budgets
5-4   Rent and Cost Recovery Data and Indices
6    Summary of Economic Results
MAP
IBRD No. 16569: Location of Perimeters.



- iii -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MiAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector                           Code
Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances:                             AI
Quatrième Plan de Développement Economique et Social
1981-1985, Partie III, Chapitre VII, Développement
Rural (72 pages).
Situation Alimentaire 1981/82, Rapport multi-donateurs,              A2
décembre 1981.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Projet de Périmètres Irrigués Villageois, Rapport de                 B1
Préparation, FAO/Bank Cooperative Program,
Report No. 41/81 MAU.5 of December 3, 1983.
Rapport d'Activité de la Direction de la Mise en Valeur              B2
et de la Production 1980-1981, SONADER, janvier 1982.
Réponse à l'aide-mémoire de la mission de préparation,               B3
SONADER, mars 1982.
Règlement Intérieur du Croupement Coopératif.                        B4
C.   Working Papers
Etude du système de pompage.                                         Ci
Project Costs:  Detailed Tables.                                     C2
Farm Budgets and Incomes, and Project Economics.                     C3



- iv -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:   SONADER, the National Rural Development Agency
Amount:         SDR 7.7 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
On-Lending      Proceeds of the credit would be passed on to
Terms:          SONADER as a government grant.
Project         The project would provide for the construction and initial
Description:   operation of 75 small irrigation perimeters of 20-25 ha,
totalling 1,600 ha, in the upstreamn zone of the Mauritanian
bank of the Senegal River. It would provide: (a) pumping
sets; (b) farming inputs; (c) services of eight Mauritanian
professionals to provide agricultural extension, and pump
maintenance and repair service; (d) housing and working
facilities for these professionals; (e) service of two
expatriate technical assistants to assist SONADER in
supervising construction of the perimeters; and (f) vehicles
and topographic/office equipment to strengthen SONADER's
regional offices responsible for these perimeters. A
special account would be established under the project to
expedite disbursement.
Benefits        Annual incremental production of edible grain at full
and Risks:      development would be about 10,000 tons, double the country's
present level of irrigated grain input. The project would
significantly increase the income of 2,900 farm families.
The measures designed to increase rent and cost recovery
would eventually permit all existing and future perimeters
to be financially independent. The risks are small:
peasants are highly motivated and have proven their capacity
to construct and manage their perimeters under the effective
supervision of SONADER. Moreover, since each perimeter
would be an independent unit, problems that might develop in
one perimeter would not affect the project as a whole.



-v -
Estimated Costs: a/                       Local          Foreign          Total
…------ US$ million -----------
Perimeter Development                      1.0             2.6              3.6
Inputs                                     0.0             0.5              0.5
Supporting Services                        1.3             0.8             2.1
Total Baseline Costs                  2.3             3.9             6.2
Contingencies
-  Physical                          0.2              0.5             0.7
-  Price                             0.9              1.0             1.9
-  Implementation delay               1.1             0.9             2.0
Subtotal                             2.2              2.4             4.6
Total Project Costs                   4.5             6.3            10.8
Financing                                 Local          Foreign          Total
----------- US$ million -----------
IDA                                        3.1             4.4             7.5
IFAD: b/
-  incremental expenditures           1.1             1.9             3.0
-  non-incremental farming
inputs                           -                -              0.4
Government                           0.3               -              0.3
Total                                 4.5             6.3            11.2 b/
Disbursement Schedule
(IDA Credit)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual          0.4    0.9    1.3    1.5    1.2    1.0    0.7    0.4    0.1
Cumulative      0.4    1.3    2.6    4.1    5.3    6.3    7.0    7.4    7.5
Rate of Return:      25%
Map:                 IBRD No. 16569
Chart:               SONADER ORGANIZATION CHART, World Bank 24028
a/   Net of taxes which would be waived.
b/   Includes US$0.4 million of IFAD's contribution to SONADER's
rehabilitation plan.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      In mid-1980,  two  studies  on  the  irrigation potential  of  the
Mauritanian, or right, bank of the Senegal River became available. One of
the studies was a long-term regional plan and the other was a more
operational feasibility study of the scope for expanding the small scale
irrigation operations being carried out, partly with IDA support, by the
Société Nationale pour le Développement Rural (SONADER). Following review
of these studies by Government and IDA, an FAO/CP mission visited
Mauritania in January 1981 and identified a small-scale irrigation project
covering  2,000 ha.   A follow-up FAO/CP preparation mission visited  the
country in July 1981 and the report became available in December.   The
report proposed a project consisting of 1,500 ha of small-scale irrigation
works and 500 ha of medium-scale perimeters and included a list of
questions to which Government was to replv as a condition for appraisal.
Satisfactory responses were received in March 1982, and the project was
appraised  in  May.   The  project  now  proposed  foeusses  exclusively  on
small-scale irrigation and would, together with similar projects being
financed by CCCE/FAC, the Dutch Government and FED, exhaust the 5,000 ha
potential for small-scale  irrigation in the near future.   The proposed
project would be the Bank Group's second free-standing irrigation project
in Mauritania and the seventh operation dealing with the irrigation
subsector.   Although with one exception these operations have been very
small, they signify a deepening partnership between Mauritania and the Bank
Group that would be further fostered by the proposed project.
B. The Rural Sector
1.02      Mauritania has a population of about 1.6 million of which about
one-third are urban dwellers, perhaps one-half nomadic herders, and the
remaining one-sixth  sedentary farmers.   The country covers  1.2 million
square kilometers, of which about 75% is desert; 20% is suitable only for
extensive pastoralism.  Sedentary farming can be sustained only along the
Senegal River and in the extreme south-east, but even there rainfall does
not exceed 600 mm/year. Apart from this sedentary farming area, the only
centers of concentrated population and domestic markets for agricultural
products are Nouakchott, the capital city, of about 400,000 inhabitants,
located 250 km north of the mouth of the Senegal river; Nouadibhou port, a
further 400 km north; and the mining center of Zouerate, 800 km north-east
of the capital.
1.03      The rural sector contributes  only 25% to GDP even though  it
engages two-thirds of the population. In contrast to an estimated GNP per
capita of US$465 in 1982, rural sector value added per capita is only
US$170.  These numbers reflect the dualism of the economy as well as the
acute poverty of the natural resource endowment of the rural areas. Within
the rural sector, livestock accounts for 80% of value added and crops for



- 2 -
only  10%,  again  reflecting  the  resource  endowment.   Other  than  ocean
fishing, the sector makes no contribution to recorded exports, while
foodstuffs account for 30% of recorded merchandise imports, of which
cereals make up 45% (120,000 tons), sugar 25% and tea 15%.
1.04      Irrigation did not start until the 1960s and by the end of 1982
about 4,000 ha had been equipped, half of which were small perimeters of
about 20 ha each and half in the two large projects of Mpourie (1,400 ha)
and Kaedi  (700 ha).  Of the small perimeters,  about 1,700 ha have been
sponsored by Government, with external assistance from FED, FAC, IDA and
the Netherlands, and the remaining few hundred hectares are either entirely
private or sponsored by non-governmental organizations.   The record has
been mixed, but small perimeters have clearly performed far better than
large. During the Fourth Development Plan period (1981-1985), a further
10,000 ha were to be irrigated:   3,300 ha in small perimeters and the
remaining 6,700 ha larger projects. The largest of those, the Gorgol Noir,
cofinanced by nine external sources,has been scaled down from an initially
projected area of 3,600 ha to about 2,000 ha due to major cost overruns.
Progress on the Boghé project (1,000 ha); financed by KfW, F.R. Germany's
development  agency,  is also  slower  than  anticipated.   Thus,  with  the
large-scale targets revised downwards, it seems more realistic to estimate
that, by 1990, the additional irrigated area will be about 6,500 ha, a goal
that already presents a formidable challenge to the implementation and
management  capacity of Mauritanian institutions.   Large-scale irrigation
may eventually be possible from the two major dams on the Senegal river
(Manantali and Diama) that are being constructed by the Senegal River
Development Office (OMVS), a trinational (Mali, Mauritania and Senegal)
entity supported by several bilateral and multilateral agencies. Although
the eventual irrigation potential in Mauritania from the reservoirs may be
as much as 100,000 ha, there are present major technical, institutional,
economic, financial and sociological problems with many unanswered
questions, which require a prudent approach to further expansion of
large-scale schemes.
1.05      While  OMVS  is  in  charge  of  planning  and  supervising  the
regulation of the river and associated power and transport investments,
the development of irrigated perimeters remains in the hands of the
individual member states. In Mauritania, the Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR) is in charge of water resources development. Under the Ministry, the
National Rural Development Authority (SONADER) is responsible for carrying
out rural development projects, particularly irrigation projects. SONADER
is a public institution with some administrative and financial autonomy
vis-a-vis Government departments. Its board of directors is chaired by the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Rural Development. SONADER is further
discussed in (paras. 2.06 - 2.13).
C. Sector Strategy and Issues
1.06      Government's main objectives for the rural sector, as stated in
the 1981-1985 Plan, are threefold:   to increase food production, both of
cereals and animal products; to protect and rehabilitate the environment;
and to reverse the steep increase in urban migration of the 1970s.  These



- 3 -
objectives are reasonable, as is the proposed strategy of investing in
projects with the lowest possible recurrent costs and substantial
beneficiary participation.  Government recognizes that little can be done
to increase rainfed crop production and that attempting over-ambitious
irrigation projects would lead to serious technical and financial problems.
With its tight fiscal situation and debt service problems, Government is
prudently evaluating the agricultural investment program within the
framework of its economic recovery plan now under preparation with the
assistance of the IMF and IDA.
1.07      The Bank Group has participated in six operations in the rural
sector: US$4.2 million for livestock development in FY72; US$2.5 million
for the Drought Relief Fund Project in FY73; US$1.1 million for the Gorgol
Engineering Project in FY74; US$3.5 million for the Technical Assistance
Project to SONADER in FY77; US$8.0 million for an Urban and Rural
Development Fund which included small irrigation perimeters in FY79; SDR
11.4 million for the Gorgol Irrigation Project in FY81.  A Second Rural
Sector Technical Assistance Project for SDR 7.4 million was approved in
October 1983. Preparation of a second livestock project is well underway.
Bank involvement has foeussed on the two key subsectors of irrigation and
livestock,   and   on   technical   assistance   in   accordance   with   the
cross-sectoral strategy of helping to improve national economic management
and the country's absorptive capacity.  Future lending strategies will be
adjusted  according  to  lessons  learned  from on-going projects.   In the
agricultural subsector particularly, the Bank maintains a constructive
dialogue with Government aiming at: (a) setting up practical arrangements
to reduce the risk of deficient maintenance in irrigation projects; (b)
making the best use of the potential for flood recession cropping, since
the element of uncertainty of the erratic Senegal River flow will be
practically   eliminated  by  the  Manantali   regulating  dam;   and  (c)
establishing realistic producer prices to encourage domestic production.
1.08      Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the first
four operations listed at para. 1.07. Common problems have included: (a)
slow implementation due to administrative inefficiencies within Government,
although there was a notable improvement in SONADER under the Technical
Assistance Project; (b) cost overruns partly due to slow implementation and
exacerbated by the exceptional political situation that prevailed up to
1979; (c) acute shortages of trained local staff at all levels; and (d)
difficulties in obtaining Government counterpart funding. Despite these
problems, the four projects have achieved an acceptable degree of success.
These problems have again arisen during the execution of the Gorgol
project, the first large irrigation scheme to be developed in Mauritania.
In this case, however, the main causes were probably related to the
project's design, which proved inadequate for the conditions of the
country, especially regarding operation and maintenance requirements during
the  production  phase.   To  overcome  these  problems,  the  project  was
reformulated by focussing on its settlement component and, at the same
time,  by  simplifying  design.   The  revised  design  involves  project
benefeciaries in the construction of on-farm works and introduces manual
farming practices instead of the heavy mechanization initially foreseen.
With these changes, a first farming season with first-time farmers, was



-4-
completed in December 1984, with a yield of about 4 t/ha of paddy over a
60-ha area. These results, albeit modest, are encouraging. By the end of
1985, about 1,000 ha are expected under cultivation.
1.09      There   are   three   main   issues   in   the   rural   sector:
(a) institutions are weak due to the acute shortage of trained personnel.
This means that projects should be of an appropriate scale, and kept
simple. Government has not hesitated to obtain technical assistance from
several external sources, both to train staff and to fill line positions,
and such technical assistance will be required for a long time to come.
But precisely because the institutions are weak, Government has few
illusions about the capability of the public sector.  More than in many
other countries, Government appreciates the limits to public sector
competence and hence has not set up a plethora of institutions that would
be difficult to dismantle, and seems determined to avoid the kinds of
mistakes that have been made elsewhere; (b) investment costs are very high,
due mainly to the difficult physical conditions and the use of high-cost
mnanpower.  This reinforces the point that projects should be kept simple;
(c) policies on prices and subsidies are urban-biased thus reducing
production   incentives.    There  have,   however,   been   several   recent
improvements in pricing policy on food aid sales (para 5.03) and imported
rice (para 5.04),  so that upcountry producer prices are now at border
prices. The proposed project would, moreover, include specific measures to
reduce subsidies (paras 5.06 and 5.11)
II. SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
A.  Village Perimeters
2.01      The primary aim of small-scale  irrigation is the creation of
perimeters built and managed by village  communities.   Small perimeters
comprise about 20 ha each, are located on the levees close to the river,
and are irrigated by a diesel-driven pump set.  The pump set is moved up
and down the river bank depending on the height of the river, although
floating  pumps  are  also  used;  pumped  water  discharges  into  a cement
stilling basin and is then conveyed in earth canals. Field application is
mostly in small basins, except in the Gouraye sector, where farmers in some
perimeters are already practising ridge and furrow irrigation. Until now,
small perimeters have been constructed exclusively by manual labor provided
by the beneficiary village.   This "sweat equity" participation of about
4,500 man-days per perimeter is now an acknowledged precondition for
perimeter construction.   Organization of the labor for construction and
subsequent maintenance is the responsibility of the existing village
cooperative groups. Similarly, land allocation, irrigation scheduling, and
all charges are managed by the cooperative groups.  SONADER's role during
the investment phase is limited to perimeter layout, supervision of
construction, execution of cement works, and installation of the pump set
and accessories. During operations, SONADER's role is to supply inputs,
repair pumps, provide advice on cropping and water management, and collect
the aggregate  payments  due  from coooperative  groups.   These  reciprocal



-5-
responsibilities are spelled out in a contract established between SONADER
and each cooperative group prior to SONADER's intervention in any
perimeter.
B. Past Developments and Present Situation
2.02      Public sector involvement in irrigation started in the mid 1960s
when Government sponsored two small perimeters. A FED-financed program of
20 perimeters started in 1972, and a further 10 perimeters were developed
in 1976-1977under the IDA Drought Relief Fund Project. These works were
undertaken by the Ministry's Rural Engineering Department. Results were
mixed, partly because there was no uniform set of terms and conditions of
financing at the farm level. The one common element, the provision of pump
sets free of charge provided that a sinking fund was set up, did not
promote good maintenance of pump sets or adequate payments into the sinking
funds.   Moreover,  the  Rural  Engineering  Department  concentrated  on
engineering rather than on farming aspects, and the private sector did not
respond to the new opportunities in input supply.  Following its creation
in  1975,  SONADER  implemented  a FAC-financed  program  of  10 perimeters
beginning  in  1977  and,  in  early  1979,  it  was  entrusted  with  the
responsibility of maintaining all existing perimeters, and of developing
all new perimeters, including the 30 perimeter program of the Urban and
Rural Development Fund Project financed by IDA.  This program, originally
scheduled over three years, was in fact completed in two years. Following
the spirit of the Credit Agreement, SONADER abandoned the sinking fund
approach to pump replacement and introduced instead provision of pump sets,
with ownership transferred to cooperative groups, on credit repayable over
four years at 8.5% on 50% of the initial cost.  Payments previously made
into sinking funds were credited to the medium-term credit accounts. This
change,  together with uniform terms and conditions of financing of crop
inputs, pump inputs and spare parts, removed all the previous ambiguities,
and pump maintenance improved once the Groups became responsible for
ettheir"  pump  sets.   The  few  perimeters  sponsored  by  non-governmental
organizations as well as the Dutch Government program, which is being
implemented by a special unit within SONADER, have all adopted the
SONADER's set of terms and conditions for financing at the farm level.
2.03      By the end of the  1981  dry season,  the total area in small
perimeters was 1,700 ha, of which 550 ha are in the Rosso sector, 400 in
Boghe, 370 ha in Kaedi and 380 ha in Gouraye. There were a total of about
100 perimeters and in the latter two sectors - the area of the proposed
project - there were 19 and 23 perimeters, respectively, ranging from 13 to
25 ha.  The smaller perimeters, which have to bear similar pump and other
costs, could not be increased to 20 ha because the topography required the
execution of earthworks beyond the capability of manual labor, and the
projects had not been provided with earthmoving capability.  The proposed
project would finance the execution of earthworks by contractors on those
sites that cannot be fully developed by manual labor so that the 20 ha
perimeter size can be attained in all new perimeters.
2.04      During 1981, the cropping intensity was 123% in the Kaedi sector
and 175% in the Gouraye sector.  Average paddy yields were 6 tons/ha in



-6-
Kaedi and 5.7 tons/ha in Gouraye; average maize yields were 3.6 tons/ha in
Kaedi and 6.4 tons/ha in Gouraye; and average yield of sorghum in Gouraye
was 2 tons/ha.  In the Kaedi sector, nine of the 19 perimeters date from
before  1979,  and their performance was below average.   In the Gouraye
sector, only two of the 23 perimeters predate 1979 and their performance
was also below average. Most of the older perimeters are in the downstream
Boghe and Rosso sectors and there, too, performance was poor and the sector
averages were lower than in the upstream sectors.  On some of the older
perimeters, there is still some reluctance to abide by SONADER's uniform
terms  and  conditions  of  financing  and,  in  the  struggle  to  obtain
concessions, some villages opt not to farm, or to farm without fertilizers.
Overall performance as a function of perimeter age and origin shows up most
clearly in credit repayments: in 1981, the overall repayment rate was 68%,
but it was only 55% on the old perimeters constructed by the Rural
Engineering Department, and 69% in perimeters constructed by SONADER in
1977  and  1978.   The  repayment  rate  rose  to 94%,  however,  in SONADER
perimeters constructed in 1979 and 1980.  Although the older perimeters
pose a continuing problem for SONADER, performance in the more recent
perimeters, as regards rapidity of construction, productivity, and credit
repayments, augurs well for performance in new perimeters.  In the last two
years, however, the difficult situation of SONADER has had an adverse
effect on the performance of small-scale perimeters.   Thus, compared to
1981, cultivated area and output decreased by 7% and 25%, respectively, in
1983, and by 20% and 48%, respectively, in 1984. Annex 2-1 summarizes the
results of the 1980/81 campaign.
2.05      In selecting sites for small perimeters, two main criteria must
be met:  (a) sites should be within 5 km of an existing village where at
least 100 adult workers are interested in irrigated farming;   (b) sites
should be within 1 km of the river and have physical characteristics that
permit the development of a 20 ha perimeter without any major earthworks.
The potential for these small perimeters on the Mauritanian bank of the
Senegal River is about 5,000 ha.  With the existing 1,700 ha, the ongoing
Dutch project in the Rosso sector, the new FED project in the Kaedi sector
(400 ha), the proposed project (1,600), and the proposed CCCE/FAC project
in the Boghe sector (1,200 ha), the potential for small perimeters that
meet the two above criteria would be exhausted by 1990.  In the meantime,
more experience will have been acquired with three large perimeters along
the valley, namely, the existing mechanized scheme at Mpourie in the Rosso
sector (1,400 ha), the Gorgol Pilot Project at Kaedi (700 ha) and the Boghe
project that is under construction  (1,000 ha).  The latter two projects
include an attempt to capture some of the advantages of small perimeters in
a large-project context, by means of water associations organized by 20 ha
units entrusted with responsibility for all farming operations. Further
irrigation investments in the valley will be designed in the light of these
experiences.
C. SONADER
2.06      On the advice of several donors,  the Government of Mauritania
created SONADER in 1975 to fill the institutional vacuum in the rural



- 7 -
sector.  SONADER was entrusted with excessive responsibilities, including
the planning and design of rural development projects, execution of works
by force account, the operation and maintenance of projects, and the
provision of support services (farming equipment, extension, credit, input
distribution, and marketing). Government and donors initially thought that
SONADER's lack of institutional know-how could be overcome by a series of
technical assistance programs financed by different donors that were not
always well coordinated. In fact, SONADER's mandate proved over-ambitious.
2.07      Following donors' recommendations, Mauritanian authorities agreed
to undertake an in-depth revision of the tasks and structure of SONADER. A
draft plan was agreed upon between SONADER and its donors in October 1983
and finalized in April 1984. In the future, SONADER will be in charge of
supervising project development, but will no longer be responsible for
direct project implementation.   Maintenance of pumps,  supply of inputs,
agricultural credit and marketing activities will be transferred to the
private sector or existing banks, which will deal directly with the
cooperative groups concerned within each project.  Government and SONADER
have committed themselves to completing these steps throughout 1985,'86
and'87. It should be noted, however, that the transfer of these activities
will be a difficult process requiring an appropriate degree of flexibility.
2.08      According to the revised plan, SONADER has endeavored to reduce
its highly centralized structure, as shown by the compression of
headquarters personnel expenditures, which in four years will be decreased
by 62 percent (from UM 78 million in 1982 to UM 36 million in 1984, and
further to about UM 30 million in 1986). This compression is the result of
eliminating unnecessary positions and of allocating staff to headquarters
and projects, which will henceforth have a high degree of autonomy.
Headquarters staff has been reorganized into two departments: a Technical
Department divided into three Divisions (Studies, Construction and
Agricultural Development); and an Administration and Finance Department,
with  two Divisions  (Administration and Finance).   A Management Control
Unit, headed by a specialist in the management of agricultural development
entities will complete the SONADER structure. This Unit was created under
Credit 1414-MAU, although due to delayed effectiveness, the Unit is not yet
operational. The manager of this Unit will report directly to the Director
General, who will delegate full management responsibilities to him.  The
Director General will devote himself to the activities inherent to his
position   (relationship   with   Government,   institutions   and   external
financiers). Annex 2-2 summarizes SONADER headquarters' structure.
2.09      The financial problems of SONADER (summary financial statements
of SONADER for the years 1980 and 1981 are shown in Annex 2-3) were another
inevitable consequence of its over-ambitious mandate; budgeting provisions
for current expenditures have been consistently lower than actual costs,
thus resulting in a growing gap far exceeding the Government's financial
capability.   Without  any  other  income,  SONADER  incurred  heavy  debts
(currently UM 108 million, equivalent to about two years of headquarters'
budget), which nearly caused the institution to collapse.  The Bank, IFAD
and other donors agree with Government that SONADER's rehabilitation is
crucial to Mauritania's irrigation development. Thus, through a continuous



-8-
two-year dialogue, Government and donors, with the Bank taking the leading
role, have agreed on a major overhaul of SONADER.
2.10      As an essential complement to the reduction of SONADER functions,
Government has agreed, effective immediately, to eliminate the practice of
supplying free inputs for the first irrigation season (para. 5.11), and the
fertilizer subsidy not later than January 1, 1986(para. 5.06). In view of
progress made by Government, and on the basis of a draft plan discussed in
April 1984, a final agreement between Government and donors was reached in
November 1984, under which SONADER's financial requirements for the period
1984-86 would be fully assured. These requirements are as follows:
Financial Requirements of SONADER and Expected Resources during 1984-86
(UM million)
Requirements
Headquarters Budgets 1984-1985-1986                            190
Non-incremental costs of projects                               89
Debt to third parties a/                                       108
387
Resources b/
Government                                                     148
SONADER                                                         12
IDA (US$2 million)                                             160
IFAD (US$0.4 million)                                           32
Abu Dhabi Fund                                                  15
Islamic Development Bank                                        10
Netherlands                                                      6
France                                                           4
387
a/   Verified by external auditors in the course of the annual auditing
required by IDA and financial under Credit 1414-MAU.
b/   In addition to the resources  shown here,  the Federal Republic  of
Germany has committed UM 20 million, directly allocated to solve the
financial problems of the Boghe project.
The   following   table   summarizes   the   financial   plan   for   SONADER
rehabilitation:



-9-
Sources and Application of Funds for SONADER Rehabilitation
(UM million)
Sources of
funds                           Application of Funds
Hdqtr.         Non-incr'tl    Debt to
Budgets        Projects'       Third
1984-1986     Costs            Parties       Total
Government          30             10             108           148
SONADER             -              12              -             12
Donors:
IDA              160             -               -            160
IFAD              -              32              -             32
Others            -              35              -             35
Sub-total        160             67              -            227
Total              190             89             108           387
2.11      IDA's  contribution  (US$2  million  equivalent)  comes  from  the
proceeds of credit 1414-MAU (US$7.4 equivalent) of which 80 percent (about
US$6 million equivalent) was originally intended to improve SONADER
performance.  Due to the scaling down of SONADER,  the revised technical
assistance  program  requires  about  US$2  million  less  than  the  initial
estimate.  These savings have been reallocated to support SONADER budgets
over the 1984-86 period. Credit 1414-MAU has been amended accordingly.
2.12      The IFAD contribution  (US$0.4 million)  would be added to its
share in the financing of this proposed Small-Scale Irrigation Project; it
would be used to finance non-incremental fertilizer requirements, within
the project or elsewhere, thus freeing up an equivalent amount of
Government funds. Goods would be procured under ICB procedures.
2.13      Government  already  contributed  UM  38  million  in  1984;  its
outstanding commitment (UM 110 million) will be made available to SONADER
in four installments (two in 1985 for a total of UM 50 million and two in
1986 for a total  of UM  60 million).   Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SONADER would establish a Rehabilitation Account where
Government will deposit its contribution. IDA funds will be disbursed pari
passu with Government's.   IFAD disbursements  for non-incremental  inputs
will be subject to Government's having deposited into the Rehabilitation
Account an equivalent aggregate amount.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01      The project area would include the Kaedi and Gouraye sectors of
the Mauritanian bank of the Senegal River, stretching over 400 km by river
or  340 km by  road  (see map).   Annual  rainfall  at  the north- western
(downstream) limit is about 400 mm, over 90 days, but increases to 600 mm
over 120 days at the southeastern (upstream) limit.  Annual rainfall and
its seasonal distribution are subject to wide variation and thus complicate
decision-making for rainfed cropping and livestock herding.   Temperature
and sunlight hours, which peak in May and October, are similar throughout
the project area, but evapotranspiration is noticeably higher in the
north-west (2,300 mm/year) than in the south-east  (1,700 mm/year). Solar
radiation values are very high, indicating high yield potentials,
particularly for cereals.   The somewhat lower radiation values observed
during the cool season are offset by optimal day and cool night
temperatures, which favor high net photosynthesis rates for cold-tolerant
such crops as maize and sorghum.  By contrast, the dry scorching wind in
the hot dry season impedes pollinization of crops like rice and maize,
resulting in high sterility and reduced grain yields.  Key climatic data
are detailed at Annex 3-1.
3.02      The Senegal River is the only perennial water  course  in the
project area. The main tributary, the Gorgol Noir, flows only from June to
October.  The Senegal River begins to rise in June and crests in October,
when it floods extensive bottomlands and old branches of the river. As the
river recedes, flood recession cropping is practiced, with higher and more
reliable yields than under rainfed cropping. The floodable lands are more
extensive in the Kaedi sector than in Gouraye. The use of the water of the
Senegal River by the three riparian countries - Mali, Senegal and
Mauritania - is regulated by the OMVS agreements and no problem of
international waters is posed.  The two dams currently under construction
will provide an irrigation potential of about 400,000 ha, far in excess of
likely irrigation water demand over the next 20 years.
3.03      Water requirements have been calculated from the data available
for Kaedi meteorological station, which includes measured evaporation data
on Pan-A class tank at Kaedi.   These data, multiplied by the "K" values
(crop coefficients) obtained by direct observation at Gud from actual water
consumption data, yielded the actual monthly evapotranspiration of each
crop.   These values,  adjusted for the soil saturation requirements  and
effective rainfall, resulted in the crops' net irrigation requirements
which were in turn adjusted to take into account distribution and field
efficiency which, according to observed practices in similar perimeters,
have been estimated at 75% each. Annexes 3-2 and 3-3 give full details on
the above calculations.
3.04      The floodable  lands contain heavy clayey soils that are also
well-suited to rice.  The levees are loamy clays, with clay content less
than 40% and low permeability (2 cm/hour) well suited to rice and, with



- il -
adequate water management, to most annual or perennial irrigated crops.
The plateau soils are generally sandy.  The existing small perimeters are
constructed on the levees and this practice would continue under the
project.  The few soil fertility analyses carried out so far indicate thiat
initial organic matter contents (between one and two percent) are good and
could be sustained, even at high yield levels, by application of farmyard
manure.   In  spite  of  low  phosphorous  content,  responses  to  phosphate
application have been variable and inconsistent, probably due to high
free-iron content leading to a strong fixation of applied phosphates.
Potassium levels are adequate.  The cation exchange capacity is high and
indicates high efficiencies of ammonium-based nitrogenous fertilizer.
Risks of alkalinity are low given the economy in water application dictated
by the pumping costs.  The vegetation is typical of the Sahelian wooded
savannah.  The tree cover varies with topography, being most dense in the
floodable areas, thinning out on the slopes (but with acacias still
predominating), and becoming sparser on the plateau with shrubs more
prevalent.  Land clearing for irrigation, even in the floodable areas, is
not a major job .
B. Socio-Economic Features
3.05      The total population of the project area is about 80,000,  of
which  the  town  of  Kaedi  accounts  for  30,000.   The  remaining  rural
population lives in 64 villages, with an average population of 800.  The
Kaedi sector includes 30,000 people in 37 villages and the Gouraye sector
20,000 in 27 villages. In both sectors, migration is important: the 1977
census, conducted in January, showed that the ratio of adult women to adult
men was 1.4:1 in Kaedi, and 1.5:1 in Gouraye, i.e., about 30% of the men
were not present in the early part of the dry season.   Most of these
absences were probably seasonal, but long-term migration is far from
negligible, particularly in the Gouraye sector. Farm models have therefore
been designed to reflect the observed family structures,  and to measure
non-farm income (para 5.07). Average family size is 5.7 in Kaedi, (1.2 men
and 1.8 women), and 8.0 in Gouraye (1.6 men and 2.4 women); in both cases,
non-farm income represents 40% of total family income.   The Toucouleur
people are predominant in the Kaedi sector and the Soninke people in the
Gouraye sector. Both societies are hierarchically organized; although this
entails conflicts of interest, local procedures are firmly established to
resolve them and villages are particularly cohesive, functional units.
3.06      Land tenure in the Senegal Valley is fairly complex.  One key
distinction is made between floodable and non-floodable lands.  Floodable
land (oualo) is more productive, and risk-free in the sense that crops are
planted  as  the  flood  recedes.   The  area  flooded  does,  however,  vary
considerably  from  year  to  year.   These  floodable  lands  are  generally
appropriated by village notables whose individual holdings vary from a few
to tens of hectares. The larger holdings are exploited by share-cropping.
The non-floodable lands (dieri or fond) are generally held under the so
called communal land tenure system whereby village chiefs are the
custodians in their areas of jurisdiction, and are empowered to grant
usufructory rights to heads of families. Theoretically, any land could be
repossessed by the community acting through the chief and the elders but in



- 12 -
practice communal ownership is exercised only over vacant or virgin land.
An individual or family, once granted a piece of land, enjoys effective
security  of  tenure.   Small  irrigation  perimeters,  by virtue  of  their
topographical    requirements,    are    constructed    on    non-floodable,
communally-held  land.   Although  such  sites  could  pose  questions  of
compensation to current usufruct holders, such questions have not impeded
perimeter construction in the past; the villages have apparently found
appropriate solutions.
C. Institutions, Infrastructure and Services
3.07      The Kaedi sector is part of the Gorgol Province of which the
administrative capital is the town of  Kaedi.  The Gouraye sector is part
of Guidimaka Province of which the capital is Selibaby, a town of 15,000
located 50 km inland from the river.  Provincial governors and district
sub-governors have a broad administrative mandate.   The Agriculture and
Livestock Departments of the Ministry of Rural Development have limited
staff in the districts.  The Agricultural Research Institute is based at
Kaedi where it undertakes most of its work, principally on rice, coarse
grains, fruit and vegetables. The National Agricultural Technicians School
is also located at Kaedi.  SONADER has a well-equipped regional office at
Kaedi and a more rudimentary base at Gouraye, which would be strengthened
under the project.
3.08      The road network on the Mauritanian side of the Senegal river is
rudimentary. It consists of a poorly maintained laterite road to Kaedi and
then an earth track further upcountry.  Earth tracks are the only link to
the east-west highway, 100 km or more to the north, but a tarred link will
shortly be built between Aleg and Bogh (100 km downstream from Kaedi).
There are no feeder roads other than earth tracks but they suffice in the
dry season. In the wet season, river transport assumes greater importance
and, by 1990, all-year river transport will be practicable.   Other than
SONADER's radio network, there are no telecommunication facilities in the
project area except in the provincial capital, where there are also banking
and postal facilities.
3.09      Kaedi is a lively market town as are Selibaby and, on the Senegal
side,  Bakel  (across  the  river  from  Gouraye),  and  Matam.   Private
transporters operate throughout the area, by truck, barge,  and   camel,
although none are based at Gouraye. The only public agencies are the Food
Security Commission (CSA), which started buying cereals in late 1981 when
it took over the Kaedi rice mill (capacity 5,000 tons/year) from SONADER,
and the state trading company (SONIMEX), which wholesales rice.  Livestock
marketing is managed through a traditional private system in which
livestock owners sell stock either directly or through professional
collection agents to large traders.  Animals are moved on the hoof either
across the river or up to the east-west highway where they are trucked, as
return loads, to Nouakchott.



13 -
D.  Land Use and Farm Income
3.10      Farming includes rainfed and flood recession cropping and, more
recently, irrigated farming. Rainfed grains and pulses are planted in July
and harvested in October, while flood recession sorghum is planted in
December and harvested in April.   In general, a good rainfall year will
result in a high flood so that there is little complementarity between the
two production seasons. In the Kaedi sector, where rainfall is less than
400 mm/year and the topography is favorable to flood recession cropping,
the typical farm family cultivates 1.25 ha under rainfed conditions (wet
season) and 1.9 ha during the flood recession period (dry season).  In the
Gouraye sector, where rainfall reaches 600 mm/year, but the topography does
not permit so much flooding, the typical farm family cultivates 2.2 ha in
the wet season and 1.3 ha in the dry season. Between the two sectors, crop
incomes are nonetheless similar whether expressed per man-day (UM 200), per
hectare (UM 7,000), or per capita (UM 3,500). Crop incomes per family are
UM 20,000 in Kaedi and UM 26,000 in Gouraye.
3.11      By the end of 1981, 1,450 ha were equipped for irrigation in the
project area.  The large scheme at Kaedi, also known as the Gorgol Pilot
Project, includes 700 ha on formerly floodable land now protected by
extensive dikes. This perimeter is cultivated by people in the town of
Kaedi.   It  experienced  prolonged  compensation  disputes,  and has  twice
suffered from breaks in the dikes and flooding of standing crops.   The
other 750 irrigable hectares in the project area are in small perimeters,
equally divided between the Kaedi and Gouraye sectors. In most villages,
demand far exceeds the 20 ha available per perimeter and individual
holdings are generally of only 0.05 ha per adult worker.  On holdings of
0.15 ha at Kaedi and 0.20 ha at Gouraye, families are realizing annual net
incomes of UM 10,000 and UM 18,000 respectively, or 50% and 70% of
non-irrigated crop income, and returns per man-day of UM 250 and UM 320
respectively.   It is this success that has prompted the demand for more
small perimeters whereby land holdings could be brought up to about 0.20 ha
per adult worker.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
4.01      The  proposed  project  would  be  the  next  step  in  the  Bank's
continuing program of support for irrigation in Mauritania.  The project
would be part of SONADER's ongoing program of development of small-scale
irrigation,  to which  the Bank has already  contributed  twice.   The key
features   of  small-scale   irrigation  are  the  participation  of  the
beneficiaries in the construction, operation and maintenance of their
perimeters, and low investment cost.  The proposed project would contain
two innovations:   all new perimeters would be of at least 20 ha,  and
changes in current practices would ensure increased rent and cost recovery.
The project would include:



- 14 -
a) development of 75 small perimeters (20-25 ha)
totalling 1,600 ha;
b) provision of 75 pumping sets for these perimeters
plus 20 additional stand-by sets;
c)  provision of farm inputs;
d) provision of vehicles, topographic and office equipment;
e) construction of housing and work facilities at Gouraye;
f) provision of technical assistance to SONADER for
supervision of construction of small perimeters (two experienced
irrigation engineers);
g) provision of technical assistance to project
beneficiaries in the form of agricultural extension (two
Mauritanian  professionals),   organization  and  management  of
cooperatives (two Mauritanian professionals) and pump maintenance
and repair service (four Mauritanian mechanics); and
h) financing of operating costs related to the above activities.
Project works would be completed in three years and supporting services to
farmers would be provided for two years after construction; thus, full
project development would take five years.
4.02      To  ensure  effective  beneficiary  participation,  a  cooperative
group will be constituted for each small perimeter along the same lines as
the groups that are already operating effectively in the project area. The
formation of the group and the commitment of its members to contribute up
to 4,500 man-days to perimeter construction will continue to be
prerequisites   for  starting   construction  of   each   small  perimeter.
Specialized extension agents of SONADER will assist farmers in group
formation. The number of farmers admitted to a group will be determined by
the members themselves; the number of participants is in practice limited
by the minimum parcel allotted to each individual. Any adult worker over
15 years of age is eligible.  The rights and the responsibilities of each
participant regarding the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
scheme are spelled out in the group's internal rules, adherence to which is
a condition for joining the group.  The governing body of a group is its
General  Assembly,  which  includes  all  the  individual  members.   The
irrigation system is managed on a day-to-day basis by the group's Steering
Committee, consisting of seven members appointed by the General Assembly.
The group is assisted and monitored by SONADER's Extension Service, under
whose guidance the group finances and collectively carries out the
execution, operation and maintenance of on-farm development works and
pumping equipment.  Each member of the group farms individually the parcel
he cultivates under usufructory rights. Members are subject to the group's
discipline and collective commitments to (a) perform maintenance works at
the beginning of each agricultural season, (b) farm according to the



- 15 -
cropping and water use calendar agreed upon by the group, and (c) pay
charges for pump operation and for group purchase of inputs.  Charges are
assessed by the Steering Committee with the assistance of the extension
agents and approved by simple majority by the General Assembly. A copy of
the standard internal rules of a cooperative group is in the project file
(item B4).  These arrangements have proven workable in the existing small
perimeters in the project area and are expected to continue to work
satisfactorily.
B.   Detailed Features
1.   Construction of Perimeters
4.03      The  project  would  finance  the  construction  of  two  types  of
perimeters. Each perimeter would be an independent of 20 ha unit served by
a pumping set.  Type A perimeters would be constructed entirely by the
beneficiaries themselves, who would contribute 4,500 days of sweat equity
per perimeter.   SONADER's role would be to design the perimeter layout,
supervise the construction, do the minor cement works at the stilling
basin, and install the pump set and accessories. These perimeters would be
built wherever the site conditions permit, but there are only about 25 such
sites in the project area that meet the two criteria at para 2.05. Type B
perimeters would be built on more difficult sites, where the terrain
requires earth-moving beyond the capability of the beneficiaries (4,500
days per dry season). Such works would be undertaken by contractors, under
the supervision of SONADER, but perimeter construction would otherwise be
identical to Type A perimeters.  After excluding those sites that do not
meet the two criteria at para 2.05, there are about 50 appropriate sites
for Type B perimeters in the project area. Current practice suggests that
land use will vary between the Kaedi and Gouraye sectors, with higher
cropping intensities in Gouraye and much more paddy in Kaedi where soils
are generally heavier.   Annexes  4-1 and 4-2 present  a list of the 75
perimeters grouped by sector (Gouraye, Kaedi) and type of works (A,B), with
an indication of the area and number of beneficiaries of each perimeter.
The main characteristics of each type of perimeter and expected land use
may be summarized as follows:



- 16 -
Main Characteristics of the two Project Perimeters and Expected Land Use
Perimeter            Gouraye                 Kaedi                   Total Project
Area                      Area                     Area
per                       per                      per
No.  Area  Users  User  No.  Area  Users  User  No.  Area  Users User
(ha)  (no.)  (ha)         (ha)  (no.)  (ha)         (ha)  (no.)  (ha)
A type      12   270  1,100  0.25   13   270  1,190  0.23   25   540  2,290 0.24
B type      25   520  2,540  0.20   25   510  2,340  0.22   50 1,030  4,880 0.21
Total       37   790  3,640  0.22   38   780  3,530  0.22   75 1,570  7,170 0.22
Crops             °%O    Area (ha)            °     Area (ha)           %    Area (ha)
Wet season
Rice            30           237          70           546          50           783
Maize           70           553          30           234          50           787
Subtotal       100           790         100           780         100         1,570
Dry season
Maize           64           506          38           296          51           802
Cowpeas         16           126          12            94          14          220
Subtotal       80            632          50           390          65         1,022
Total            180          1,422         150         1,170         165         2,592
2.   Pumping Equipment
4.04       Given the fluctuations  in the f low of the river throughout the
year,  the hydraulic  conditions  for the pumping  sets are verv difficult,
with  variations  up  to  10 m  in  the water  level  and  up  to  60 m  in  the
distance  from  the  river  to  the  discharge  basin.    In  the  existing
perimeters, one response to these conditions has been a mobile pumping set,
which is moved by the users according to the fluctuation of the river so as
to  keep  the  set  within  its  working  capacity.   However,  due  to  the
inadequacy of pumping sets presently used (the engines work under severe
overload during the low water season thus causing the pumps to perform
poorly), breakdowns are frequent and repair costs are unreasonably high.
For the Kaedi sector, the proposed solution is still based on mobile
diesel-driven pumps, but with more carefully prescribed specifications.
For the Gouraye sector, where the river banks are quite steep, the pumping
sets would be installed on floating platforms, a solution that is used with
no special problems for small-scale irrigation across the river.  To avoid
the problems so far encountered, the pumping sets would be selected so as



- 17 -
to ensure a satisfactory combined yield of motor and pump under the
physical conditions prevailing in the area.  Manometrie heads during the
dry season would vary between 16.5 m and 13.5 m for the most upstream and
downstream perimeters; for the rainy season the range would be 5.5 m to 3.5
m.  The most efficient set to meet the wide range of project conditions
would consist of:  (a) an engine with a working regime between 1,200 and
1,600 rpm, the optimum at about 1,500 rpm at which the effective power
output would be about 17 kW (23 hp); and (b) a pump with optimum yield
(270-300 m3/hr) at about 1,500 rpm while still maintaining an acceptable
efficiency  (over 75%) between 200 and 330 m3/hr.   These characteristics
would meet the maximum irrigation demand which would occur in July (rice,
14 ha; maize, 6 ha) at 5,900 m3/ha (14 hours/day at 270 m3/hr or 12
hours/day at 315 m3/hr).   A comprehensive and detailed analysis of the
pumping aspects of the project (the most critical among the physical
components of the project), is in the project file (item CI), including a
draft (in French) of the technical specifications for the pumping sets.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these technical
specifications would be included in the bidding documents for the
procurement of the pumping sets.
3.   Irrigation Works
4.05      After land-clearing by the beneficiaries, SONADER would prepare
detailed topographic maps at 1:2,000 with contours at 25 cm. The layout of
the hydraulic network would be quite simple, a pattern consisting of a
concrete  stilling basin  to receive  the pump's discharge  from which  a
conveyance canal heads off to feed, through a concrete distributing box,
two primary canals serving the secondary canals which will in turn directly
flood the fields. The head section of the conveyance canal would be lined;
it would be provided with a simple control structure with the double
purpose of monitoring the working conditions of the pump and the volume of
water delivered  to meet  the irrigation requirements.   The rest of the
irrigation network would be unlined, which is acceptable given the
characteristics of the soils.  Secondary canals would be 100 m apart; the
two parcels adjacent to a section of a secondary would be irrigated
simultaneously and would constitute an irrigation unit; each parcel would
be about 50 m x 50 m and would be formed by three 40 cm high dikes and the
secondary canal itself.  Water distribution through the canals and on to
the fields would be regulated by PVC pipes, which have proven resistant,
efficient and easy to operate and maintain.  With these characteristics,
the overall irrigation efficiency (conveyance and field operation) actually
obtained  in perimeters  under  exploitation varies between  50%  and 60%.
Design criteria used by SONADER are based on experience gained through the
construction and operation of existing perimeters and are adequate.
4.   Buildings
4.06      Existing  facilities  at Kaedi are satisfactory and no further
installations  are  considered  necessary.   At  Gouraye,  however,  present
facilities are inadequate and the project would provide for housing,
offices, workshop and warehouse; in addition, a gas station would be
installed to service the vehicles of the sector.  Given the simplicity of



- 18 -
the buildings, the most efficient arrangement would be that the potential
contractors be invited to include final designs in their offers.
5.   Vehicles and Equipment
4.07      In  addition  to  the pumping  sets,  the  project  would  provide
vehicles for the staff and equipment for the workshops and operation and
maintenance teams. A detailed list is at Annex 4-3.
C. Preparation of Final Designs
4.08      With  the  sites  of  all  perimeters  identified  and  the  design
criteria for pumping equipment and irrigation works defined, it is expected
that all the 75 perimeters will be developed; the next step (currently
underway)  is to prepare final designs for each perimeter.   Through the
support provided by several donors, including IDA, SONADER has the
technical capability to complete those final designs. Preparation of final
designs has begun with Type A perimeters, which are to be executed in the
1985/86 season.  The Association has reviewed and approved final designs
covering about 20% of the area to be developed under Type A perimeters
which, given the simplicity and repetitive nature of the project works, is
considered sufficient to submit the project to Board consideration. Type B
perimeters would be executed in 86/87 and in 87/88.Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that, begining in 1986, SONADER would present to IDA for
approval, an annual work program, containing, for each perimeter, final
engineering designs, cost estimates, and the participation agreement of the
cooperative group as well as, for all Type B perimeters together, the
tender documents for the mechanical earthworks to be carried out by
contract. Only perimeters approved by IDA would be eligible for financing
under the proposed credit.
D.  Execution of Project Works
4.09      Works requiring mechanical equipment are limited to earth moving
(compacted fill for canal construction and land leveling) for which there
are capable local contractors.  The possibility of executing the works by
force account was examined and ruled out.
4.10      Preliminary estimates of the quantities involved in each of the
50 Type B perimeters are at Annexes 4-4 and 4-5. Mechanical works could be
completed in one construction campaign (1986-87) of some 180 days.  Other
works, including land clearing, leveling and construction of irrigation
networks would be carried out by the beneficiaries themselves under the
participation agreement with SONADER, which would provide the materials and
tools for the construction of minor works.    While it is important, in
order to keep costs down, that all mechanical construction be undertaken in
one dry season, it is virtually impossible for SONADER to manage the full
implementation of 50 perimeters (about 1,000 ha) in one campaign. But this
lack of synchronism is not a major problem since, given the nature of the
mechanical works, Type B perimeters, in which manual works are carried out
one year after the mechanical works, would not require maintenance beyond
the  capabilities  of  the  beneficiaries.   To  assist  and  supervise  the



- 19 -
construction of the works, SONADER would set up two brigades, each
consisting of a senior irrigation engineer as chief and three construction
superintendents.   During  negotiations,  assurances  were  obtained  that
SONADER would employ two consultant engineers with qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment, satisfactory to IDA.
Previous experience indicates that a cooperative group of beneficiaries
under the supervision of a superintendent can build a perimeter in about
six weeks.  Thus, during a working season of 36 weeks (October - May) a
superintendent could supervise the manual works of up to 6 perimeters. The
following construction schedule is envisaged:
Construction Schedule for Type A/B Perimeters
(in weeks)
Type A    Type B    Total
1985-86
Manual works           25         -          25
1986-87
Mechanical works       -         (50)       (50)
Manual works           -          25         25
1987-88
Manual works           -          25         25
Total                  25         50         75
E. Agricultural Development
1.   Agronomic Aspects
4.11      Maize and rice would be the principal crops of the project.  In
spite of the short history of small-scale irrigation schemes, the
technology of crop production has been well established, with yields of 4
to 6 t/ha for maize and 5 to 6 t/ha for rice. The maize variety generally
grown is a local population called Maka which, so far, has out-yielded all
hybrid  varieties  tested  in  the  area.   With  respect  to  rice,  modern
high-yielding varieties are already known in the area, such as IR 8, IR 20,
IR 1561 and TN 1.  New short cycle varieties similar to TN 1 are being
tested in Kaedi, where promising yields up to Il t/ha have been obtained.
Cowpeas could become a third major crop in the area.  While present yields
are low when inter-cropped with maize (about 500 kg/ha), yields of about 3
t/ha are being obtained with new varieties developed by two institutions
with which the Bank is associated:   the Institut séngalais de recherche
agricole at Bambey (Sénégal) and the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture at Ibadan (Nigeria). A concerted effort in seed production and
extension could increase yields up to 2 t/ha.   Further funding for an
existing  irrigated  seed  farm  at  Kaedi  is being  sought  from  external
sources, so the project would include no specific provision for seed



- 20 -
production.   Instead,  the  project  would  further  encourage  a  recent
development whereby some farmers are beginning to specialize in seed
production,  within  the  small  perimeters.   Seeds,  fertilizers,  pumping
inputs and labor requirements are shown at Annex 4-6.
2.   Agricultural Extension
4.12      To assist the beneficiaries with the initial operation of the new
perimeters, SONADER would make available two extension teams (one per
sector), each headed by a Mauritanian agronomist assisted by a specialist
in  cooperatives,  a credit  agent  and  a number  of  extension  agents  as
detailed  at  Annex  4-7.   The  extension  teams  would  advise  on  water
management,  credit and farm and cooperative management.   The number of
agents has been determined as a function of the actual distance between the
perimeters under the responsibility of each agent, who would be serving a
maximum of 5 villages within a distance of 25 km.  The extension teams
would vary in number annually, according to the project development.
3.   Supply of Inputs
4.13      Seed production to meet project demand would be undertaken by
selected farmers on existing perimeters.   Following procedures presently
used, fertilizers would be acquired through ICB and would be distributed to
the cooperative groups by SONADER regional offices in coordination with its
central credit and marketing officer.   SONADER will attempt, however, to
transfer this operation, as well as the supply of diesel fuel, to private
trucking contractors.
F. Operation and Maintenance of Pumping Sets
4.14      Adequate operation and maintenance of the pumping equipment is of
the utmost importance for project success.  Based on the projected pace of
development, from the fourth year onwards the project would require some 40
check-ups annually per sector (20 of the 1,500-hr. type and 20 of the
3,000-hr. type).Two service teams (a mechanic and an assistant) would be
provided by the project in each sector.  In addition to these systematic
check-ups and in-workshop repairs, the service teams will visit each
perimeter at least once a week; the service teams would also be in charge
of training the pump operators and monitoring the supply of gas/oil and
lubricants.   Formal  training  of the mechanics will be provided by the
suppliers of the pumping sets; the obligations of the supplier to this
effect would be spelled out in detail in the tender documents.
4.15      At  present,  provision  of  spare  parts  is  deficient.   In  the
private sector, mark-ups are high and stocks are practically nil; SONADER
procurement procedures are not well suïted to the tiimely acquisition of
items  on  short  notice.   To  overcome  these difficulties,  bide  for  the
procurement of pumping sets would also include the spare parts to be
acquired throughout the normal life (about 6,000 hours or 4 years) of the
set,  according  to an indicative  list provided by the manufacturer.   A
formula for price adjustment would be included in the final tender
documents; actual purchasing orders would be prepared annually by SONADER.



- 21 -
After the development period, maintenance and replacement of pumping sets
and provision of spare parts are expected to be arranged directly between
cooperative groups and private suppliers, who are likely to be attracted
into the area by the 3,000 ha to be developed in the next few years.
G. Organization and Management
4.16      SONADER would be responsible for the execution of the project.
The beneficiaries, under the participation agreement with SONADER, would
contribute labor during construction and be responsible for the operation
of their perimeters.  While preparation of final designs, procurement and
supervision of project works would be the responsibility of SONADER central
services, the two sector offices at Gouraye and Kaedi would be responsible
for agricultural extension, distribution of inputs, maintenance of pumping
equipment, and assisting cooperative groups in managing their accounts and
collecting their payments.  A list of the proposed project staff is at
Annex 4-7; senior staff would include two sector chiefs of whom the Kaedi
chief would be the project coordinator, two agronomists, two cooperative
experts, two credit agents, four mechanics and one accountant who would be
attached to the Kaedi office.
H. Cost Estimates
4.17      Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties, which would
be waived, but including contingencies, are estimated at UM 866.7 million,
equivalent to US$10.8 million, of which 58% would be foreign exchange. In
addition, project beneficiaries would provide US$0.6 million equivalent
through their "sweat equity" contribution.   Base costs have been set at
January 1985; they have been determined by adjusting prices obtained from
contracts let in December 1984 for similar projects (Lake R'Kiz) to the new
parity of the Ouguiya and further applying increase rates to local and
foreign costs (10% and 5% respectively) up to the expected starting date
(October  1985).   Physical  contingencies  to  allow  for  variations  in
quantities have been estimated as follows:  earthworks, 25%; construction
materials, 15%; pumping equipment, 15%; farming inputs, 20%; and operating
costs of vehicles, 25%.  Price contingencies have been calculated at the
following annual percentage rates:
Assumed Price Contingencies
(in %)
1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
Foreign costs           5.0         7.5          8.0          8.0         8.0
Local costs            10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0
Although project design is fairly simple and no major difficulties are
expected, experience demonstrates that IDA-financed irrigation projects in
West Africa have a disbursement period of eight-and-one-half years after
Board presentation (average of 15 projects).  To allow for cost overruns
derived from a delay in project execution, cost estimates have been revised



- 22 -
assuming an implementation period of eight years.  Under this hypothesis,
project  cost,   including  physical  and  price  contingencies,  would  be
US$ 2 million   higher   than   the   cost   corresponding   to  a   five-year
implementation period.   This  difference  is  added  to project  cost  as  a
contingency  for  implementation delay.   A summary of  the project's  cost
estimate is presented below. The average unit cost of development works is
$2,800 per ha, including physical contingencies, but excluding price and
implementation   delay   contingencies,   which   is   very   reasonable   for
Mauritanian conditions.  Annexes 4-8, 4-9 and 4-10 present detailed costs
estimates and Annex 4-11 presents the projected schedule of expenditures
under the two implementation hypotheses (5 and 8 years).
Summary Project Cost Estimate
Local currency            Foreign currency    % Foreign   % Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total exchange    cost
-------- UM million ---   ------- US$ million -----
Irrigation development    79.4    206.1     285.5   1.0      2.6       3.6      72         58
Farming inputs             1.6     37.0      38.6   0.0      0.5       0.5      96          8
Supporting services      101.8    69.9      171.7   1.3      0.8       2.1      41         34
Baseline costs          182.8    313.0     495.8   2.3      3.9      6.2      63        100
Contingencies:
- physical              13.3     41.3      54.6   0.2      0.5       0.7      76         il
- price                  72.0     77.5    149.5   0.9      1.0       1.9      52         30
- implementation delay   95.3     71.5     166.8   1.1     0.9       2.0      43         34
Sub-total               180.6    190.3     370.9   2.2      2.4      4.6       51        75
Total Project Costs       363.4    503.3    866.7   4.5       6.3      10.8     58        175
-====    ===~  -===   =            c=                 =         ==
I. Financing
4.18       The  project would be  financed  almost  fully by  IDA  and  IFAD.
Including IFAD's contribution to SONADER's rehabilitation plan (US$0.4
million, para. 2.12), total financial requirements would be US$11.2 million
equivalent, of which IDA's share would be US$7.5 million (67%), IFAD's
US$3.4 million (30%) and Government's US$0.3 million (3%), according to the
financing plan shown below:



- 23 -
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Gov't      IDA    IFAD    Total
----------- US$ million ----------
Civil works                                  -        1.1      0.5       1.6
Construction material & equipment            -        0.6      0.2       0.8
Pumping sets                                 -        1.1      0.5       1.6
Vehicles                                     -        0.4      0.1       0.5
Farming inputs
a) incremental                            -         0.6      0.2      0.8
b) non-incremental                         -         -       0.4 a/   0.4
Technical assistance                         -         1.1     0.4       1.5
Local staff                                 0.3        1.6     0.7       2.6
O&M of vehicles                              -         1.0     0.4       1.4
Total                                       0.3       7.5      3.4      11.2 a/
a/   Includes   US$0.4  million  of  IFAD's   contribution  to  SONADER's
rehabilitation plan.
The IFAD Loan of SDR 3.5 million equivalent would be repayable over 50
years, including a 10-year grace period, with a service charge of 1%
annually.  To facilitate the financing of project operations, the Borrower
would open and maintain a Special Account to which, at the Borrower's
request, an authorized allocation of US$500,000 equivalent would be made
out of the proceeds of the IDA credit and IFAD loan.   This amount  is
estimated to be the maximum required to cover about four months of
operating expenditures. The IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be subject
to cross-effectiveness conditions.  In addition, the following would also
be conditions of credit effectiveness:   (a) the Special Account has been
opened;  and  (b)  IDA  has  been  appointed  by  IFAD  as  the  cooperating
institution.   Procedures  for  the operation of  the  Special Account  are
detailed below (para 4.22).  Proceeds of the IDA credit, the IFAD loan and
the Government contribution would be passed on to SONADER at no cost, since
it is a non-revenue earning institution.
J. Procurement
4.19      Two contracts for civil works totalling US$1.6 million would be
awarded  by Limited  International  Tender  (LIT).   Goods  totalling  about
US$4.1 million would be procured through some 15 contracts, including:
(i) pumping sets and fertilizers, to be procured through ICB according to
Bank  guidelines,  and  (ii) other  goods,  which  would  be  grouped  in
appropriate bidding packages which, for values above US$50,000 would be
procured through LIT and, for values below US$50,000 (not expected to
exceed US$250,000 in the aggregate) could be procured by other procedures
acceptable  to  the  Association.   Consultant  Services  totalling  US$1.5
million  would  be  procured  according  to  Bank  guidelines.   Procurement



- 24 -
arrangements are summarized below; IDA would finance 70% of all items;
figures in parentheses show the total amounts financed by IDA under each
procurement method.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Items to be Procured               Procurement Method            Total Cost
ICB       LIT        Other
Civil Works
Earth works                           1.4                      1.4
Buildings                             0.2                      0.2
Goods
Pumping equipment          1.6                                 1.6
Construction materials                0.7                      0.7
Vehicles                              0.5                      0.5
Fertilizers                0.3 a/                              0.3 a/
Spare parts                           0.1       0.1           0.2
Fuel, lubricants                                0.3            0.3
Other equipment                                 0.1            0.1
Services
Consultant Engineers                             1.5           1.5
Local Staff & operating cost
of supporting services                         4.0           4.0
Total Cost                      1.9        2.9        6.0          10,8 a/
Amount to be financed by IDA (1.3)        (2.0)      (4.2)         (7.5)
a/   Does not include the US$0.4 million worth of fertilizers, to be used
off-project, which would be also procured through ICB and financed
100% by IFAD.
4.20      All bidding documents for civil works contracts would be subject
to prior review. Bidding packages for goods over US$100,000 would also be
subject to prior review, which would result in a coverage above 80% of the
number of contracts and about 90% of the total amount.
K. Disbursements
4.21       IDA  would   finance  all  categories   (except  non-incremental
fertilizers) jointly with IFAD, in a 70:30 ratio. Disbursements of the IDA
credit would be against the categories of expenditures and within the
limits shown below:



- 25 -
Disbursement Schedule for the IDA Credit
Item                                             Amount             % of Total
(US$ million)        Expenditures
Civil Works Contracts                              1.0                   70%
Delivered costs of construction materials,
pumping sets, vehicles, topographic and
office equipment, and tools for mechanic
teams and work shops.                            2.0                   70%
Delivered costs of non-incremental farming
inputs                                           0.3                  70%
Running costs of vehicles                          0.4                   56%
Local personnel salaries                           1.0                   63%
Authorized allocation under the Special
Account (para. 4.25)                             0.4
Consultants' services                              1.0                   70%
Unallocated                                        1.4
Total                                         7.5
4.22      Withdrawal applications would be fully documented,  except for
categories (d) and (e) above and for expenditures under contracts below
US$10,000 equivalent, for which Statements of Expenditures would suffice,
Supporting documentation of SOEs would be made available to IDA supervision
missions and would also be reviewed in the course of the audit of accounts
(para. 4.26).  Disbursements for the replenishment of the Special Account
would be made against Borrower's requests, with which the Borrower would
furnish to the Association satisfactory justification that funds from the
Special Account were used only to finance eligible project expenditures.
Expenditures for the acquisition of agricultural inputs would not be
eligible for financing out of the Special Account.  Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that the Borrower would operate the Special
Account according to these provisions.
4.23      Given the nature of the project, the disbursement profile of the
IDA-financed irrigation and drainage projects for West Africa (average of
15 projects) is adopted for the project's profile of disbursements, which
is at Annex 4-12.
L. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24      SONADER,  through  the Monitoring  Section  of  its  Agricultural
Development Division, has been following up efficiently on the progress of



- 26 -
small-scale  irrigation  development.    The  proposed  project  would  be
monitored through these existing arrangements. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that SONADER would furnish promptly to IDA, not later than
September 30 each year, a project implementation report to cover physical
and financial progress of the project, with the first such report due in
1986.  Regarding the project s agricultural development,  SONADER and IDA
would agree during the course of project implementation on a representative
sample of perimeters to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations  that SONADER would furnish
promptly to IDA, not later than December 31 each year, an agricultural
development report on the agreed perimeters, to cover the preceeding dry
and rainy cropping seasons,  the first such report also due in 1986.  A
further  assurance  was  obtained  that  SONADER  would  prepare  a  Project
Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
M. Accounts and Audit
4.25      SONADER will establish and maintain separate project accounts in
accordance with sound and generally accepted financial practices.
Government would establish and maintain a Special Account, to be operated
as described in para. 4.22.  SONADER would open a Rehabilitation Account
where Government would deposit its contribution to the financial
rehabilitation of SONADER (para. 2.13).
4.26      Audits   of   project   accounts,   the   Special   Account,   the
Rehabilitation Account and SONADER accounts would be carried out annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report, of such scope
and detail as IDA may reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA within
six months after the end of each financial year. The auditor's report will
include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal
controls and as to whether IDA funds have been used for their intended
purposes.   The  report  would  also  confirm  that  Summary  Statements  of
Expenditures  (para.  4.22)  correctly  reflect  detailed  records  kept  by
SONADER. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
V. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Markets
5.01      Even in good years, Mauritania produces a far smaller volurne of
cereals than is required to feed its population. Over the four-year period
1981-84, commercial imports of rice averaged 70,000 tons and concessionary
food aid, mainly wheat and sorghum, averaged 100,000 tons.  Total domestie
cereals production in 1983/84, a drought year, was estimated at 20,000
tons, of which about 10,000 tons came from irrigated perimeters.   Total
domestic consumption of cereals is about 280,000 tons, with the deficit
being met by frontier trade in millet,  sorghum and some rice.   Average
annual per capita cereals consumption is about 145 kg, which is low in
comparison to neighboring countries, but comprehensible in view of the
still large proportion of nomads in the total population.



- 27 -
5.02      Domestic production  of cereals will increase  substantially if
ongoing  irrigation  development  programs  are  successful.   Counting  the
Mpourie, Boghe, Kaedi and Gorgol projects, as well as small-scale
irrigation along the Senegal River, the area equipped for full water
control irrigation would be about 10,000 ha by 1990 as against 4,000 ha at
present. With an average cropping intensity of 150% and an edible grain
yield of 3.5 tons/ha, incremental production by the mid-1990s would be
about 42,000 tons of cereals per year.  The import gap would nonetheless
still exceed 200,000 tons.  Nor will the OMVS two-dam scheme substantially
change the market outlook in the medium term.   Although the dams will
create a double-cropped irrigation potential of about of 400,000 ha (about
100,000 ha in Mauriania), prudent estimates of the pace of implementation
and land productivity suggest that Senegal, which presently imports 300,000
tons of rice per year, will not have a surplus for export in the
foreseeable future. By the mid 1990s, however, there could be a surplus of
grain in the middle and upper Senegal Valley that would result in shipments
toward the coast.  Besides paddy and maize, the project would also produce
cowpeas (500 tons per year). In the farm budget analysis, cowpeas are used
as a proxy for any non-grain crops; such crops would only be produced if
local upcountry markets develop, and there are already several encouraging
examples of local initiatives to satisfy such demands.
B.  Prices
5.03      Market prices for cereals are primarily determined by Government
policy on the selling prices of concessionary food aid and commercial rice
imports. Government food aid policy has recently changed, due in part to
the advice of the main food donors, and the net result is a significant
improvement in the incentives offered to domestic cereal production.   In
February 1985, the Government raised wholesale prices for food aid cereals
from UM 15/kg to UM 22.5/kg in Nouakchott and from UM 14/kg to UM 21.5 in
the interior.  One of the objectives of the recent price increase was to
eliminate the distortions caused by low consumer prices for food aid
cereals. The increase in consumer prices was accompanied by increases in
official producer prices for cereals, which for sorghum, millet and maize
were raised from UM 15/kg to UM 21/kg and paddy from UM 12.5/kg to UM
14/kg.   The  producer  price  increases  are  to more  than  offset  higher
production costs due in part to Government's decision to reduce fertilizer
subsidies by 50 percent in 1985.  The higher consumer and producer prices
should stimulate domestic production.
5.04      Rice imports are managed by the parastatal monopoly,  SONIMEX,
which also imports tea and sugar.  In the past rice prices  (for broken
rice)  were  subsidized  from  profits  realized  on  tea  and  sugar.   More
recently, however, the Government has raised rice prices to border levels.
In February 1985, following an exchange rate adjustment, the official
wholesale price for broken rice sold in Nouakchott was raised from UM 20/kg
to UM 26/kg.
5.05      The net  effect  of these  changes  in food  aid  and  rice  price
policies is that current cereal producer prices for the 1985/86 season are
about equal to border prices. The trend in recent government policy



- 28 -
changes, together with the sustained advice of the main food aid donors,
suggests that market displacement effects of food aid will be held down and
that, in general, producer prices will continue to be close to border
prices.
5.06      Until February 1985,  input prices were at   full cost and were
tax-free with the sole exception of fertilizer for which a subsidy of about
50% was provided in relation to the border price. All fertilizer was sold
at UM 12/kg regardless of composition and location.   In February  1985,
Government reduced the subsidy on fertilizers by 50%, and will totally
eliminate  the  remaining  subsidy  on  January  1,  1986.   Assurances  that
Government would implement this measure were obtained at negotiations.
C. Financial Implications for Beneficiaries and Cost Recovery
5.07      The project's impact on farmers' income has been examined through
the study of three specific perimeters:  Diovol in the north-east, Fimbo in
the middle, and Diogontourou in the southwest. Surveys in the project area
have yielded reliable data on farm types and income but little information
on non-farm income, even though it is known to be significant. Accordingly,
non-farm income has been estimated, both "with" and "without" project, at
the observed market wage rate (UM 100/man-day equivalent) for the number of
days not devoted to farm work. This approach provides a clear estimate of
incremental incomes arising from the project.  Farm budget financial data
are shown by crop in Annex 5-1 and by cropping patterns and composition of
costs in Annex 5-2.  Detailed farm family budgets are shown at Annex 5-3
and are summarized below:



- 29 -
Summarized Farm Family Budgets
(in 1985 UM '000 per year)
Specifie Case                Diovol          Fimbo     Diogontourou
Location in project area    north-west    middle         south-east
No. family members              5.7           8.0            8.0
No. adult workers               3.0           4.0            4.0
Without project
Net farm income                38.0          51.0           51.0
Other income                   27.0          38.0           38.0
Total
per family                65.0          89.0           89.0
per capita                 11.5          11.2           11.1
With project
Net farm income                64.0         100.0           99.0
Other income                   15.0          23.0           23.0
Total
per family                79.0          123.0          122.0
per capita                 14.0          15.4           15.2
Incremental income
per family                 14.0         34.0           33.0
per capita                  2.5          4.2             4.1
5.08     Without-project incomes would show no increase over pre-project
incomes,   with   little   variation   throughout   the  project   area   (UM
11,000/capita/year).  Incomes are derived from rainfed and flood recession
cropping (30%), livestock (15%), existing irrigation, estimated at 0.05 ha
per adult worker, (15%), and other non-farm income (40%). Without-project
incomes would be about 50% of GNP/capita or about 85% of the critical
consumption  level,  with  the  latter  taken at  60%  of GNP/capita.   Even
allowing for income inequalities within villages, an overwhelming majority
of project beneficiaries would continue to have incomes below the critical
consumption level, without the project.
5.09     With-project incomes are calculated on the basis of a plot size of
0.20 irrigable hectare per adult worker, or an increment of 0.15 ha. (this
would not apply to those project beneficiaries who do not presently have
access to irrigable land, whose increment would be 0.20 ha, whose
with-project incomes would be identical but whose incremental incomes would
be higher). With-project incomes would increase to UM 14,000/capita/year in
the north-west, and to over UM 15,000/capita/year upstream; respective
incremental   incomes   would   be  UM  2,500/capita/year   (22%)   and  UM
4,200/capita/year (37%). The composition of income would change, with other
non-farm income falling from 40% without project to 20% with project,



- 30 -
throughout the area.  Of the balance, irrigation income would account for
45% in the north-west, or nearly double non-irrigated crop income whereas
upstream the share of irrigated income would be 52% or two and a half times
non-irrigated crop income.  In both zones, moreover, irrigation would make
a significant improvement in the assurance of income and food supplies.
5.10      In assessing irrigation costs to be charged to farmers, the main
criterion is the ability to pay as reflected in rents and relative income
levels.   Other  criteria  important  in  the  project  area  include  the
acceptability of the charges to village communities that would have
invested considerable "sweat equity" in perimeter construction, and the
compatibility of charges practiced on either bank of the river. Under 1982
practice in Mauritania, cooperative groups are to repay one-half of the
first pumping set and two-thirds of the replacement set at 8.5% over a
four-year period. Auxiliary materials and installation are provided by
SONADER at no charge for the farmers. Except in the first season, when all
inputs are supplied at no charge, users pay fuel, lubricants, spare parts
and the salary of the pump operator, but labor and other maintenance and
repair costs are borne by SONADER.   These arrangements represented rent
recovery indices of 37% in the north-west and 22% upstream; the
corresponding cost recovery indices were 22% and 25%.
5.11      Review  of  acquired  experience,  includîng  credit  repayment  as
compared to perimeter income, suggesteci that the rent recovery îndeçSi
upstream could be set at at least 33% and that this could be attained raost
effectively by (a) eliminating the practice of supplying all inputs free of
charge for the first season (nearly all project beneficiaries will have had
prior   experience   in   irrigation,   albeit   on   very   small   plots);
(b) introducing full-cost charges for mechanical services required for
pumping equipment repair, in addition to the current practice of charging
full cost of spare parts (this would have the incidental advantage of
providing an incentive for private mechanics to enter the pump repair
business), and (c) eliminating the subsidy on the first replacement pump
set. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SONADER would implement
in the 1985/86 season, and would present to the Association: (i) before
December 31, 1986, a report on the feasibility of (b) above; and (ii)
before December 31, 1988 a report on the feasibility of (c) above. On this
basis, the rent recovery indices would be 34% in the south-east, 55% in the
north-west, and 38% overall; the corresponding cost recovery indices would
be 41%, 37% and 39%.  The 55% index in the north-west, where with-project
incomes only exceed the critical consumption level by 5%, may be a little
high.   It would on the other hand be a further incentive toward higher
cropping  intensity and greater substitution of maize  for paddy.   Rents
would thereby lncrease, irrigation costs would undergo a less than
proportional increase, and the rent recovery index would fall toward the
same level as the upstream index. Annex 5-4 presents full details on rent
and cost recovery data and indices.
D. Financial Implications for the Public Sector
5.12     Under the proposed arrangements, Government's direct contribution
wvoutd be 3% of project costs, or about UM 24 million, which would be



- 31 -
financed  by  a budgetary  allocation  to  SONADER.   At  full development,
SONADER would withdraw all extension agents, contract out or disband its
pump repair services, and its only unremunerated services would be for
input logistics, farm management advice and perhaps credit recovery.  The
cost of these services would be about UM 6 million per year, at constant
base costs, or a little more than Government's annual contribution to
project costs.  Government would therefore have to continue its budgetary
allocation  to SONADER after  project  completion.   Project  beneficiaries
would at full development be making an aggregate incremental income of UM
65 million/year. An unknown part of this income would be spent on taxable
goods  from  which  Government  would  derive  revenue,  and  Government's
breakeven share would be 10% of beneficiaries' aggregate income.
Plausibly, this would be realized by beneficiaries spending 50% of their
incremental incomes on goods bearing an average tax rate of 20%.  The net
burden of the project on the public sector is therefore likely to be
negligible.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The project would be part of the final phase in the ongoing
program of development of small-scale irrigation (para. 2.05), and it would
exhaust the potential for cheap, easily constructed small perimeters close
to existing villages in the Kaedi and Gouraye sectors.  The project would
include two types of perimeters, each of 20 ha:  those (Type A) which can
be built entirely by manual labor with an input of 4,500 man-days per
perimeter in the form of sweat equity, and those (Type B) where, in
addition to a similar manual labor input, the terrain also requires some
mechanical earthworks.  The Type B perimeters would be an innovation, in
order to ensure that the 20 ha perimeter size is attained.  The project
would also entail some changes in current practices, notably increased rent
recovery.   The project would include 25 Type A perimeters,  for which a
specific case in the middle of the project area has been examined in the
economic analysis, and 50 Type B perimeters, for which two specific cases
have also been examined at the northwestern and southeastern extremities of
the project area.
6.02      Incremental annual irrigated production would be about 3,500 tons
of paddy, 6,000 tons of maize, 500 tons of cowpeas and 10,000 tons of hay
and straw. In contrast to traditional rainfed and flood recession cropping
practiced in the project area, irrigated output would be assured. Despite
this assurance, the economic valuation of project output does not include a
premium to reflect the food security benefit of irrigation.  Outputs are
valued at border prices for paddy and maize and observed market prices for
cowpeas.  Full production on each small perimeter would be reached in the
first year of exploitation. The build-up to full production would therefore
be at the same rate as the schedule of construction of small perimeters
(para 4.10).



- 32 -
6.03      About 2,900 families (20,000 people) would directly benefit from
the  1,600  irrigable  hectares  on  the  75  new  perimeters.   Average
without-project incomes are about 15% below the critical consumption level
(CCL), estimated at 60% of per capita GNP, while with-project incomes would
be about 10% above the CCL.  Since society in the project area is quite
hierarchical with widespread landlord/tenant relationships, including
sharecropping,  average  incomes  may  conceal  sharp  differences.    The
perimeters would, however, be located on sloping land close to the river,
not in the prized depressions where flood recession cropping is presently
practiced,   land  rights  clearly  established  and  sharecropping  most
widespread.  It is therefore anticipated that, as previous experience has
shown, prior land rïghts will not pose a major problem for the construction
of the new perimeters, nor will  they be   a disincentive to beneficiary
participation.    The  rent  recovery  index  is  38%,  well  within  the
beneficiaries' ability to pay, and the residual cost recovery index is 39%
(para 5.11).
B. Economic Analysis
6.04      In calculating rates of return, the following major assumptions
are used:
a)  project life of 20 years with no residual values;
b)  standard conversion factor of 0.86;
c)  opportunity  cost  for all labor of UM 100/man-day equivalent,
being the observed market wage-rate that varies little throughout
the year;
d)  costs other than perimeter-specific costs are uniform for all
perimeters.
Economic analysis  is based on current border prices.   Calculations are
detailed  in Working  Paper  3,  results  are  summarized  at Annex  6,  and
economic rates of return would be, at least, as follows:
Economic Rates of Return
A:   All manual construction (Fimbo perimeter)             39%
BI:   Mechanical earthworks (Diovol perimeter,
northwest of project area)                           19%
B2:   Mechanical earthworks (Diogontourou perimeter,
southeast of project area)                           26%
Aggregate (assuming 25 perimeters of each type)             25%
Social rates of return would be larger than economic rates of return since
the distributional impact of the project would benefit small farmers.
Such farmers would experience a 30% increase in their incomes, bringing



- 33 -
them about 10% above the critical consumption level but still about 30%
below national per capita income.
6.05      Sensitivity  analysis  was  performed  on  the  three  specific
perimeters and on the aggregate streams. In all cases, rates of return are
more sensitive to benefits than to costs.  Accordingly, crossover values
were explored for benefits, with the following yields for an economic rate
of return of 10%:
Appraisal and Cross-Over Yields
(in tons/ha)
Appraisal               Cross over           % Change
Paddy Maize Cowpeas    Paddy Maize Cowpeas
A:  Fimbo            4.5   4.0   2.2          2.9   2.6   1.4            -35
BI: Diovol           4.5   3.5   2.2          3.8   3.0   1.9            -15
B2: Diogontourou    4.5   4.0   2.2           3.3   2.9   1.6            -27
Aggregate            4.5   3.8   2.2          3.4   2.9   1.7            -25
The least safe case is Diovol, which has a different cropping pattern, with
more paddy than the two more southeasterly sites.   It can be expected,
however,  that if productivity declines there will be a switch to maize.
If the cropping pattern at Diovol were the same as at the two other sites,
the permissible percentage change between appraisal and crossover benefits
would be  29%.   The magnitude  of  the difference between appraisal  and
cross-over values is such that the risk of lower than anticipated benefits
is safely covered. Further, given the nature of the project, whereby costs
are incurred only when a perimeter is carried out, a time lag between
investment costs and project output is unlikely. A possible implementation
delay would therefore have no significant adverse effect on the economic
rate of return of the project.
C. Risks
6.06     Given the nature of the project, its risks are minimal, since the
execution of each perimeter would be undertaken only after thorough
preparation and IDA approval.   In addition,  the fact that  the project
consists of a series of independent perimeters is in itself a safety
mechanism, since particular problems that might develop in one perimeter
would not affect the project as a whole.  Thus, the only foreseeable risk
would be related to the support services, notably major failures in the
operation and maintenance of the pumping equipment or in the distribution
of inputs.   To reduce  such risks,  it is essential  that operation and
maintenance charges borne by beneficiaries fully cover the actual costs of
goods and services received and that these be promptly paid so as to allow
that  the support services  to perform their  tasks properly.   This will
require discipline and rigorous enforcement.



- 34 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations,  assurances were obtained on the following
points:
a) technical specifications in the bidding documents for pumping
equipment will be in accordance with the "Projet de Dossier
d'Appel d'Offres" (Draft Technical Specifications for Bidding
Documents) (para. 4.04);
b) beginning in 1986, SONADER would present for IDA approval an
annual work program containing, for each perimeter, final
engineering designs, cost estimates, and the participation
agreement of the cooperative groups as well as, for all type B
perimeters together, the tender documents to be carried out by
contract; only those perimeters approved by IDA would be eligible
for financing under the proposed credit (para. 4.08);
c) SONADER would employ two consultant engineers with qualifications
and  experience,   and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.10);
d) starting in 1986, SONADER would promptly furnish to IDA each year
not later than: (i) September 30, an implementation report to
cover physical and financial progress of the project; and (ii)
December 31, an agricultural development report on the agreed
perimeters to cover the preceeding dry and rainy seasons; SONADER
would further furnish to the Association a Project Completion
Report not later than six months after the closing date (para.
4.24);
e)  SONADER  would  establish  and  maintain:   (i)  separate  project
accounts in accordance with sound and generally accepted
financial practices; and (ii) a Rehabilitation Account where
Government would deposit its contribution to the financial
rehabilitation  of  SONADER.    In  addition,  Government  would
establish  and  maintain  a  Special  Account  for  the  purposes
indicated in para. 4.18, to be operated as described in para.
4.22 (para, 4.25);
f) SONADER accounts, including the project accounts and the
Rehabilitation Account would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; the audited accounts, together with
the auditors' report would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the closing of each fiscal year (para. 4.26);
g)  Government would totally eliminate the subsidy from the price of
fertilizers not later than January 1, 1986 (para. 5.06); and
h) for the 1985-1986 season, SONADER will eliminate the practice of
supplying all inputs free of charge for the first season; in



- 35 -
addition, SONADER will present to the Association: (i) before
December 31, 1986, a report on the feasibility of charging the
full cost of mechanical services required for pumping equipment
repair; and (ii) before December 31, 1988 a report on the
feasibility of eliminating the subsidy on the first replacement
pumping set (para. 5.11).
7.02      The  IDA  credit  and  the  IFAD  loan  would  be  subject  to
cross-effectiveness conditions; in addition, the following would be
conditions  of credit  effectiveness:   (a)  the  Special Account has been
opened; and (b) IDA has been appointed by IFAD as Cooperating Institution
(para. 4.18).
7.04      With the above assurances,  the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA development credit of US$7.5 million to the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
WAPA C
March 1985



MAURITAMIA
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PrOJECT
DATA FOR TUE 1980/81 SE&SON
Ceneral Data                                                            Production Data
Sector    Project   Area            Crops   Dry Season 8b-8I           Rainy Season 81            Total 80-81
Rosso     FED        31.5                    Area   Prod.   Yiold      Area   Prod.   Yield       Area   Prod.   Yield
FAC      150.0                    (ha)    (t)    (t/ha)    (ha)    (t)    (t/ha)        (ha)    (t)    (t/ha)
llîland  374.0            Paddy   40.3   161      4.0        253      961    3.8        293.3  1122    3.8
Total    555.5            maite   15.5    30      1.9         41.5     83    2.0         57.0    113    2.0
*otal    555.5  Total   55.8   191   3.4        294.5  1,044    3.5        350.3  1.235    3.5
C:.(X)  10                          53                          63
Boghe     GOvIt      35             Paddy   91.4   366      4.0        305    1,372    4.5        396.4  1,738    4.4
FED      180              laize    -       -      -           20       60    3           20.0      60    3.0         t
FAC       82              Total   91.4   366      4.0        325    1.432    4.4        416.4  1.798    4.3
CCCE     109.5            C.I.(Z)  22.5                        80.0                      102.5
Tneal    4a6.s
Kaedl     Cbv't      32.0
FED      121.5            Paddy    -       -      -          272    1.632    6.0        272    1.632    6.0
FAC       12.0            Maize  106      424     4.0         78      246    3.2        184       670    3.6
IDA      206.5            Total  106      424     4.0        350    1.878    5.4        456    2.302    5.0
Total    372.0            C.I.(Z) 28.5                        94.0                      122.5
Couraye   FEU        40.0           Paddy    -       -      -           56       320    5.7         56      320    5.7
IUA,     340.0            Haize  138      621     4.5        410    2,870    7.0        548    3,491    6.4
Total    380.0            Sorghum  -       _      -           62      124    2.0         62       124    2.0
Total  73-8   62,1      4. 5       528    3.314    6.3        666    3,935    5.9
C.1. (2) 36.3                      139             l.,
WAPAC                                                                                                                           x
Feb. 1985



- 37   -                               ANNEX  2-2
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SONADER Organization Chart
Board
D irector
General
Management        _
Control Unit       _
|Admini. end Finan|c_e                                     Technical       l
|  Departmnent      li                                 Department       l
Finance                                          Constructio.n
Agrlc. 
Dsvulopmmnt 
Regional Offices
Rosso
Boghé
Kaedi
Gouraye
Foum-Gleita
Achram-Diou k
Tamourt-En-Naaj
November 1984.                                                      World Bank-24028



- 38 -                                ANNEX 2-3
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SONADER - SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
(in million current Ouguiya)
Years ended: Dec. 31                           1980            1981
INCOME STATIE>2NT ITMIS
Revenues                                     52.2           57.0
Operating Costs                             411.1          440.0
Depreciation                                 45.3           73.2
Capitalized expenses _/                     390.7          425.1
Net Income (loss)                           (13.4)         (31.1)
IUDS STATE NT  ITEMS                               Cumulative 2/         Year 1981
1.  Sources of Funds
Governm: t                             128.6           158.6         30.0
Co-donors                            1,456.3         2,186.6        730.3
Total Sources                        1,584.9         2,345.2        760.3
2. ADlications of Funds
Capital e-penditures                 1,260.0         1,946.3        686.3
Readquarters operating cost            305.0           454.0        149.0
Working capital increase
or (decrease)                          19.9           (55.1)       (75.0)
Total ADplications                   1,584.9         2 345.2        760.3
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
Current Assets                  3/          197.1          203.4
Less Current Liabilities -            (182.6)         (304.6)
4/                        14.5          (101.2)
Net-Fixed Assets -                        1,511.5        2,387.5
Total Assets                         1,526.0         2,286.3
Capital Grants                           1,499.0         2,229.3
Equity (Gover=nent)                     27.0            57.0
Total Liabilities and Equity         1,526.0         2,286.3
1/  "Production i=obilisèe" as an investment cost.
2/  From 1976.
3/ Current ratio reflects SCNADER dire liquidity situatior..
4/  Of which 90% are project assets.                                  WAPAC
Feb. 1985



KAKUL:  LATt16- 091
LWIF; 13° 30 112
HÀIIRI?ANIA
HULL-C U E IRRIGATION ?ROJECT
[et Climatie Data
MIN. Tun-              INSO/TIY  rebU                                        TI 2/  EVAPTI 3/
(O C)                 (O C)                 hra. aunb             (total
par day)
January           30,5                   17.6                       6.3                                        305
February          33.6                   19.9                       4.2                                        337
Harch             39.0                   23.1                       8.6                                        429
April             41.7                   25.9                       8.8                                        S04
Nay               42.7                   28.3.                      9.0                                        520
June              41.6                  27.6                        9.0               21  (59)                 436
July              36.9                   26.0                       6.7               90 (111)                 334
Auguat            35.2                   25.4                       8.0              166 (197)                 215
September         35.2                   24.8                       8.3               79 (110)                 210
October           39.5                   24.1                       914               1S  (55)                 294
November          38.9                   20.6                       8.2                                        280
Deceinber         34.0                                              8.2                                        266
16.8                                                                                    zi
1/  1981 Data 
2/  Average for Kaedi(34 yeare); vuluee betumen brecketa for Couraye (t yeare)
3/ Average for Kaedi; 5 yearx
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation  and Pumping Requirements:   Rainy  Season  a/
Crop        Evapotrans-  Cross Water                                                           Pumping Requirements
Field Operations                                 Coefficient    piration    Requirements          Rainfall         Net Water Requirements                    (mm)
Water       Evaporation b/        (K) c/         (mms)           (mm)             (mm)            Kaedi          Couraye           Kaedi        Gouraye
Month          Type of operation         Requirement   (Class A pan)  Rice   Maize  Rice   Maize  Rice   Maize  Kaedi  Gouraye  Rice   Maize  Rice   Maize   Rice  Maize  Rice  Maize
---ml  ----    ---- mm -----
June         Pre-irrigation dl                   80              436                  0.4
Rice fields
Rice nursery e!                     50
Saturation rice fields f/          80
Pre-irrigation maize _/             60                                                  172    210    232    28          59       182   204      151   173        325  364       270   309
July         tnundation rice fields h/          100               334         1.2    0.7    401    233    501    233    90           111       411   143       344   122       734  255       614   218
August       Re-inundation i/
After drainage                      55              215          1.4    0.9    301    188    355    188   166           197       189    32      158    -         338   39       282
September                                                         210         1.5    0.5    269    100    269    100    79           110       190    21       159    -        339   38       284                      1
October                                                           294         0.5      -      147      -     147      -      15       55       132    -         92    -
TOTAL                                                                                                            378    558        972    390      843   267    1,736   696   1,450   527
a/   Monthly evapotransporation values are calculated by multiplying the crop development coefficients with the open pan evaporation values; evapotranspiration values plus
quantities required for the field operation give monthly gross water requirements from which the monthly rainfall values are deducted in order to arrive at net water
requirements; pumping requirements are calculated by applying an overall efficiency of 56% (75% at field level and 75% for conveyance) to the net water requirements.
b/   See Table 1.
c/   Two-year lysimeter observations at Kaedi and Guede.
d/   Water retention capacity assumei at 15% volume; two irrigations wetting the soil down to about 25 cm.                                                                                                             t
e/   Estimated water requirements for 1/20 of 1 ha for a period of four weeks in the months of May and June.
f/   Saturating a pore volume of about 20% to a depth of 40 cm.
First inundation of 30 cm.                                                                                                                                                                                       N
h/   Second inundation of about 5 cm after superficial drainage of plots to permit weeding and top dressing of second urea application.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation and Pumping Requirements:   Dry  Season a!
Crop             Evapotrans-             Water              Pumping
Coefficients c/          piration          Requirements        Requirements
Field Operation                 Evaporation b/            (K)                   (mm)                (mm)               (mm)
Month       Type of Irrigation    Requirements         (Class A pan)    Maize    Cowpeas    Maize   Cowpeas   Maize   Cowpeas   Maize   Cowpeas
---- mm ----      ----mm -----
November      Pre-irrigation d/             38                 280           0.3                   84                 122                   218
December                                                       227           0.4                    91                  91                  163
January                                                        305           0.5                  152                 152                   271
February                                                       337           0.7        0.3       236        101      236                  421
March                                                          429           0.3        0.6         91        2?7      91         257      163       459             1
April                                                          504                      0.8                  403                 403                  720
May                                                            520                      0.2                  104                  104                 186
TOTAL                                                                                                               692        764    1,236    1,365
a/   Maize sown in November and harvested in March: short duration erect type cowpeas intersown between the maize in February and harvested
early May.  Evaporation values are multiplied by crop development coefficients in order to obtain evapotranspiration values; pumping
requirements are calculated by applying an overall efficiency of 56% (75% field efficiency and 75% conveyance efficiency) to crop water
requirements.
b/   See Table 1.
c/   As measured with neutron probe in Guede over a four-year period for maize and a two-year period for cowpeas.
d/   One Irrigation to wet the soil with an estimated water retention capacity of 15% volume to a depth of 25 cm.
WAPAC
Feb.  1985



- 42 -                                  ANNEX 4-1
MAURITAIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Propose Perelaeters;    Gourave Sector
Village                   Code    Arta    Users    AIN    Remarks
(ha)     vNo.)    (ha)
A Type                                                (a
Khabou-Gu.id±mak-         G-3       20       100      0.20   400 potential users lsft out.
G-4       20       100     0.20
G-5       20       100     0.20
G-6       20       100     0.20
Solou                     G-8       25        70      0.36   About 80 ha vould b. unused due to
G-9       25        70     0.36   insufficient population.
G-10      25        65     0.38
Woumpou                   G-23      25       1.25     0.20   100 potential users lft out.
0-24      25       125     0.20
Sagne                     G-26      25       125      0.20
Fimbo-Toumbel             G-36      20        60      0.33
G-37      20        60     0.33
Sub-total                          270    1,100       0.25
B Tyrpe
Khabou-Guidimaka          G-1       20       ioo      0.20   100 potential users lft out.
G-2       20       100     0.20
' 7       20       100     0.20
Diougountourou            C-l    25         125      0.20   60 potantial unere 1f:t out.
0-12      25       125     0.20
G-13      25       125     0.20
G-14      25       125     0.20
Moulessi»ou               G-15      20       100      0.20   1,100 potantial users.laft out.
0-16      20       100     0.20
G-17      20       100     0.20
Dîaguili                  G-18      20       100      0.20
G-19      20       100     0.20
G-20      20       100     0.20
G-21      20       100     0.20
Liradj-el-Islam           G-22      20        60      0.33
Sagne                     G-25      20       100      0.20   450 potential users left out.
Toulel                    G-27      20       100      0.20   170potential users left out.
G-28      20       100     0.20
G-29      20       100     0.20
Wali                      G-30      20       100      0.20   190 potential users left out.
G-31      20       100     0.20
G-32      20       100     0.20
G-33      20      100      0.20
Bedenki                   G-34      20        80      0.25
Synthiane                 G-35      20       100      0.20   50 potential users left out.
Sub-total                          520    2,540       0.20
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 43 -
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Perimeters:    Kaedi Sector
7illage                   Code.    Area    Users   A/N    Remarks
A Type
Cive                      [-4      20        80      0.25
[-5      20        80      0.25
Koundel Raeo               -8      20        80      0.25
K-9      20        80      0.25
Aere Dindi                K-12     30       150      0.20
Tetiane                   [-13      20      100      0.20
Dabbe                     [-32      20      100      0.20   160 potential users left out.
[-33     20       100      0.20
Vinding                   [-34     20       100      0.20   420 potential users left out.
Sori Mall                 K-35     20        80      0.25
[-36     20        80      0.25
[-37     20        80      0.25
[-38     20        80      0.25
Sub-total                         270   1i190        0.23
B Type
Youmane-Yire              [-1      25        60      0.42
[-2      25        60      0.42
Cive                     [-3       20        60      0.33
Tokomadji                 [-6      20       100      0.20   30 potential users left out.
K-7      20       100      0.20
Koundel Reao              -10      20        80      0.25
K-11     20        80      0.25
Diovpl                   [-14      20       100      0.20   1,200 potential users left out.
K-15     20       100      0.20
[-16     20       100      0.20
R-17     20       100      0.20
K-18     20       100      0.20
Palel-Guiraye             [-19     20       100      0.20
-Sinthion                  K-20      20      100      0.20   200 potential users left out.
R-21     20       100      0.20
Nerevalo                  K-22     20       100      0.20   130 potential users left out.
K-23     20       100      0.20
R-24     20       100      0.20
R-25     20       100      0.20
R-26     20       100      0.20
R-27     20       100      0.20
K-28     20       100      0.20
K-29     20       100      0.20
Davalel                   K-30     20       100      0.20   220 potential users left out.
[-31     20       100      0.20
Suo-_ota1                         510    2,340      0.22
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 44A -                           ANNEX 4-3
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    Total
Vehicles
4-wheel drive wagon                 9       2      1       -      -       12
Motorcycle                          8       9       9      -       -      26
Flat-bed truck                      1       -      -       -      -        1
Tank-truck                          1       -      -       -      -        .1
Boats                              ,2       -      -       -      -        2
Pum;±ng E ui±ment
2-cycl. Diesel motor, 1600 rpm,
23 HP, mauual start 1/           26     28      31       -      -       85
Monocsllular p=p, horizontal
shaft, 270 m3/hr at 15m/
1600 rpm l/                      26     28      31       -      -       85
Fuel tank                          16      28     31       -      -       75
Floating platforms                 12      19      6       -      -       37
Carts                               4       9     25       -      -       38
Spare parts and accessories
Workshon EquiDment                 Cost (UM)
Heavy tools                          80.000
Mobile maintenance unit             200.000
Eydraulic jack                      100.000
Hydraulic press                     120.000
Electric Drill                      300.000
Welding equipment                   300.000
Electro-compressor                  150.000
Generator 20 KVA                    250.000
Manometer                            30.000
Gauge pump                           40.000
Dept gauge                           15.000
Tachometer                           15.000
Service Station                   1.600.000
Miscellaneous                       250.000
Total                        3.400.000
-/ including 10 stand-by units, 5 for each sector.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 45 -                              ANNEX 4-4
MAURITANIA
S2IALL-SCALE ItRIGATION PROJEC
Earthworks: Preli±nary Quantities Estimate
GOURA!E SECTOR
P        D      Co!pacted Fill                       LMvellin_
(!<w~s )_(=3)    Work   Trassp.  Total        L    m    j      Time (days)
-('.ys)             -(ha) -    Work  Transp.   Total
G1-2    0          800    1         0        1             20          16        -         16
G-11-14 25       8,000    8         1        9             65          50        1         51
G-15-17 15      10,000   10         1       i1        40               16        1         17
G-18-21 10       2,000    2         l        3        40               16        1         17
G-22    30          -     -         -        -             10           8        1          9
0-25    40(70) 12,000   12          1       13             10           8        1          9
G-27/29 20                                                 30          24        1         25
G-30/33  5 (25)10,000  .10          1       11             10           8        1          g
G-34     -      16,000   16         -       16
G-35     -       2,400    3         -        3
61,200   62         5       67        80  145         146        7       153
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 46 -                                 ANNEX 4-5
SYALL-SCALE  RGAXON   RJEC
Eutmotkau: PTI.         , Qumtit±  [a       te
i SECTOR
P       D      Coupacted pYl                            Lv.      __
(>      (X3)        Tram.   Vork  Total          L     X       Y    Trma5   .  Work    Total
-  <a)-
[-1-2  50      12,000         1        12      13              20             1         16       17
1-3    20                                                     20              1         16       17
1-6/7  5(25)  30,000          1        30      31
l-10/11 10    16,000          1        16      17
t-14/15 40      8,400         1         9      10                     3       1          5        6
1-19    10    12,000          1        12      13
1-20/21 20      2,000         1         2       3
t-22/23  5      2,000         1         2       3                    20       1         32       33
1-30/31 20    16,000          1        16      17                    _                  _
98,400         R        99    107              40    23        4         69       73
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 47 -
ANNEX 4-6
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Outputs and Pumping Requirements
PK462                            PK672                                  PK864
By River 1/                    Kaedi Sector             *               Gouraye Sector _                    M
Kaedi Town                                          Gouraye Village
By Road 2/
Agricultural Inputs                                      Paddy                Maize                Cowpeas
Inputs                              Kg/ha
Seeds                               "                      40                   30                      40
Urea                                "                     200                  200                        -
TSF                                                                   __120__3_
Insecticide                                                -120  3/              5                        2  5/
Labor                             md/ha 6/                250                  125 -                     80  -
Outputs
Grain/beans                      tonstha                  4.3                4/3.5  7/                  2.2
Straw/hay                         % 8/                      5                    5                       12
Pumping Requirements                                     Diovol                Fimbo            Diogontourou
perimeter            perimeter               perimeter
Water at pump                       m3/ha
Paddy                               "                  17,400               15,900                  14,500
Maize W.S. 9/                       "                   7,000                5,500                   4,900
Maize D.D. TOI                      "                  12,400               12,400                   12,400
Cowpeas D.S. 11/                    "                  13,000               13,000                  13,000
Pumping time                      hours/ha
Paddy                              "t                      66                   59                       54
Maize W.S.                          "                       26                  21                       15
Maize D.S.                          "                      46                   46                       46
Cowpeas D.C.                        "                      48                   48                       48
Fuel                              liters/ha
Paddy                               "                     165                  177                      180
Maize W.S.                          "                      82                   74                       60
Maize D.S.                          "                     151                  178                      199
Cowpeas D.S.                        "                     181                  209                      227
Oil                               liters/ha
Paddy                               "                     6.3                  3.8                      3.3
Maize W.S.                          "                      2.3                 2.0                      1.5
Maize D.S.                          "                     4.5                  4.5                     4.3
Cowpeas D.S.                        "                     4.7                  4.7                     4.7
Transport Cost Index
Km from Kaedi town                                          10                 135                      260
1/ Km markers from St. Louis; total river distance: Kaedi sector 210 km, Gouraye sector 192 km; total:
402 km.
2/ Approximate road distances; Kaedi sector 190 km, Gouraye sector 130 km; total 340 km.
3/ 120 kg/ha to be applied per year, either on paddy or maize.
4/ HCH, or a smaller quantity of a more effective insecticide, if available, against grasshoppers.
5/ Endosulphan or similar product against thrips.
6/ Man-day equivalents for yields of the order indicated under Outputs.
7/ 3.5 tons/ha in the Kaedi sector; there is no inherent reason why output in Kaedi sector should be
less than Gouraye, but, in practice, there is a difference.
8/ By value of grains/beans.
9/ Wet season.
10/ Dry season; maize is planted in the early or "cold" dry season.
fi/ Dry season; sole cropped cowpeas would be planted in the late or "hot" dry season.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 48 -                          ANNEX 4-7
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Staff Reguirements
1989 &
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   onwards
-----------(No. of posts)…--------
Sector Chiefs                     2       2      2       2       2        2
Agric. Advisers                   2       2       2      2       2        2
Coop. Advisers                    2       2       2      2       2        -
Credit Agents                     2       2       2      2       2        2
Accountant                        1       1       1       1      1        1
Promotors                         2       2       2      -       -        -
Extension Agents                  3      10      15     12       5        -
Mechanics                         1       3       4      4       4        4
Assist. Mechanies                 1       3       4      4       4        4
Warehouse keeper                  2       2       2      2       2        2
Drivers                           8       8       8      8       8        4
Secretaries                       2       2      2       2       2        -
Support Staff                     4       4       4      4       4
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



-  49  -                                                                                                                                     ANNE4  4-8
o,0.,l900000 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~3  l, o'
12144 o   Totl  bol.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - -
------- ------- ------- --- ---- -------  -- ---- ---- --- ------- -- ------ ---- - -- -------- ---- ---  ---------  ------ --- ----- -------------
l'E.  i2~    !QR  922  l  ~   ~     !.'r'''      .Fi'    1I le    "     ~z    ?'1?                  97lE    ~            -    i          ~      l0IF'     52       ?? 14%                or., l.   ;.;          Ta o;    010        Tat,, Eoc.T,.    Lb,-   t
2. 11444.TTT I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                                                                                          1    ?n - -
4, TIRTI4OIIOi2    2~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-  ---    --------    -----   -------                                                                                                       ---    --  ---
2912.2  OIT 401104- --  -------   ---       ----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ----
200TT3 A                              0l                  6 0"iS                                                         2o13~ 2le                                                                                                                                                       '94      .22    01.          I      191
2~141    1111                         2214-1                                -    -Il4             0.20                                                                                                                                                     t.0       2.,1               21.9   £22        .    ~      D 
20'220 IETII    oooc.r ~~~~~~~~~~~~-ORi,                                                                                                                      i?                           -II                                                  '711.1  4,22L  0.7                              I   49
249T-1Cl'111o1  144112               12?J,                                                                               i 1 'T                           o ..71  .5-2't'                                                                                  12,121.2                     tlotT.15T$TR4
24214 LITlTE19                       2101                                                                                                                                                                                              'I oDI?1.                                        11112            T.?                 0
0144402019~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.~ 2214                                                                                                                                        o.'                                                            20.2          --                                        £10
T. i   CiTEF :   n.,211REE                             6 orr                        0o                                                                                                                                                                            3.4                .1.4    1.25 . 71            T      £10
nI 411        AUX 4011 '4Fl         ''?fS                                     -                                                                                                                                                                        210       41.1l '.0 i~                                     4      94
1. '0121 21:4113       roorîr-                                                                                                                                        r'~120!S  27?  ~ 3C.  C.    ~É    3Oro2o                                                       -    0 0402                        I      1919,
k2-T!Bc tKz 210419104  1:11091r34                                                                                                                                                     l1r00,000014.4441-.1
12.41122  2  'IITEO  1414                       -.             -      -.   ,               -.--.-      -  - -0---      - --  --0--       - --  - --  - -4--    -  --     -- - -   - - - - - - -- - -- -  -- -  --         - - - - --     - - --   -- - - - - --  -
FE HE nE L'200A2                                                        -'oTO            1T:4''                                                                                                                                                             1.                 1.1     1.2      ,£T                 1
090;   CRI, EI4111~ âl                                                             -                                                                                                                                                                                                    11       1,12    1.2                   p
00109T90104T;:                     F.91'                                                                                                                             -.6                                                                                                           -- .O010?10                      I      449
9.r.ll200       'l'2T21.                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~.              l'                            4.                          1~        7P-
204211  2  -  --21-T'?.T              ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---   - -----  ---    --.---                                                                                                                                                     T -1--1----
013421  -   :00000                                                                                -0001                  ~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  --î-------- 
'. ,  1 N i                                          - i3                                                                                                           l.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   2.       4            00.
2. 4441T 1LE1£ i24.4                         '1       2     4 .'2          1         -      7       122.-4000                                                     .7217.D            1...   2          9.         ,     221 51100J00                         20.      24.21041,                     T.1    1.0          T      MF
2404444491  44  I  2'      21      29      -      21       14.1                                                           '000          -      o                T    101        22                                     -    42.2           -     45.1       I       I         I      'Lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1    '33  - -  Iol
1;4-TotJ  £14129049  .1101                                                                                                            4.4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA A  i'  i-  2 .1 -2.A.  -21.  1  023                                      .. .?1q 0.S 
1,44110 21914110101  '114112    1.1  2  2     .           I       42'.                                                           1.1   .4      -   9.1    9.2       11.2      12.1     T'il                                         ,. - S3.F   IR.   i-5~.5    '2~'4    71.
lîoT 440140    21214                                                                                                                               T21:922,?1:2É                                                                                          4.TI.,21.40.1-Tl,%,
.01!0000   IC:    9                                                                                                                           10 O           409001004                    941    1.01,4201:22' :21                          44                0051,1,4.-0                       14:690.?4
£olr::roll.-  1911   12121 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~11                                                                                              Ai791A 11                                                                                                                              il
84019~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   --   -------   --                                                            --------   ----   --                    --   -      ----------   ---
Fol. 1949~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  ---  ----  ---






NNA9RITANIA
PETITS PERIMETRES VILLAOEOIS
Table 102. INTRAHOS EX.PLOITATION
DetaiTed Cost Table
Breaktdom of Totals Incl. Coot
(USI '000)                       Paracters
Dam  Coite             lotaIs Iocludiol4 Costioaeocans   Ttalas Iscluding Cootinloocies                                                ______
Iuantitu                                    ION Nillioo>                      <1UM Millionl                        (US$ 1000>                             Local                     Pli.
- - -  ---------------      61i Coot  --------------- ---------------- --------------------                                                          For.   CEocl.  Dutie  I           Cot, For.   Gros;   5umars
tilit    1995 1996 1987 1999 1909 Total  ION '000)  1995 1990 1987 1900 1999  cital  1905 1986 1907 1900 199  Total  1985 1996  1987  190   198  lotal                  Eoch.  taoes)  Taoes   Total  Rate  Loch. Tao Rata Accosot
I. 195851180V COOTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...... 
A. ENGRAIS
<REE                                      FORME       40   6411 foi   -P   474            2à.993   1.1  1.7  4.9  5.1    -   2,    1.4  2.4  7.3  9.3    -19.4  17,5  29.9  91.4 103.3    - 242.3                  215.2    27,U             242.3    0,2   0.9          9     INT
SOfPER9SPNATE TRIPLES                    TONNE         -   10   10   18           30      26.993      -  0,3  0.3  0,3    - 0.8         -  0.4  0.4  0.4      - 1.2        -   4.7   5.1   5.5    -  15.2           13.5      1.7             15.2    0,2   0.9          O     INT
Sob-TotaI ENGAIS                                                                                       1.1  2.0  2-2  5.4    -  13.6   1.4  2.9  7.7  8.7    -  20.6  17.5  34.6  96.2 100.8    - 227.5               228.8    28.7           -257.5
0. SEMENCES
SEMENES RIZ                              TONNE         -   10   10   10    -      30      44.972      -  0.4  0.4  0.4    -   1,3       -  0.6  0.7  0.7    -   2.0        -   7.8   8.4   9.1    -  25.3           3235      2.8          -25.3    0.2   0.9            O     ONT
SEMENCES NIEIE                           TOMN          -    2    S    2    -    1         56.215      -  0.3  0.3  0.1    -   0.8       -  0.4  0.4  0.5    -   1.1        -   4.9   5.3   5.7    -  15.8           14.1      1.8          -  1.9    9.2   0.9           9     lOT  
Sub-Total SEMENCES                                                                                       -0.7  0.7  0.7    -   2.2         -1.0  1.1  1.2    - 3.3            -  12.7  13.7  14.8    -  41.2           16.6      4.6          -41.2
C. FONCTIOINNMENET GROUPS NN1GRONNPE
BAS OIt                                 1000 t         -  130  lm0  130    -   390        35,972      -  4.7  4.7  4.7    -  14.0       -  6.4  6.9  7l.5     -  20.8      -  80.2  86.5  93.4    - 260.1          260.1             -       260.1    0.2      I         O      8EC
hulLE                                   100OOL         -    4    4    4    -    12        179.36     -  0.7  8.7  0.7    -   2.2        -  1,0  Il1  1.1      -   3.2      -  12.3  13.3  14.4    -  40.0           40.0             -        40.0    0.2      1         O      (EC
PIECES DE RECHANE                      MILLE 28<       -   40   40   40    -   120         56.05      -  2.2  2.2  2.2    -   6.7       -3.1  3.3  3.6    -10.0            -  38.6  41.6  44.9    - 125.0          125,0        -          -125.0    0.2       I         O     ME.C
Sub-Total FONCTIONNEMENT GROUPS MOTOPOMPS                                                                -  7.6  7.6  7.6    -  22,9       - 10.5 11.3 12,2    -  34.0        - 131.2 14t!.  152.6    - 422.2         425,2        --425.2
Total INIVSTMENT COSYS                                                                                    1.1 10.4 13.2 13.7    -38.7   1.4 14.3 20,1 22. 1    -57.9  17,5 178.4 21,1.5 276,3    -  23.9                 69.       33.3          -723.8
Total                                                                                                      1.1 10.4 13.5 13.7    -39.7   1.4 14.3 20.1 22.1    -57.9  17.5 170.4 291.5 276.3    -723.8                     690,5    33J3          -  23.8
Febroors 25, 1905 12:51






91I4rt1 2h3   hI440132tPh
MS IM  M? M-2 19BP lit 1  1 M.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11  $7.F csIr
---    ---   ----     ----     ---ha-e----t----     -     ----:c-..-   -  ---.----:--                                  ----      : -- e----  t -    : ar .   .  
I. 1e3t1.1134F 11910~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:                                                                                 372W3                                             32 4.1:  7                                    , 
£3911t47  31:RaFF    1111        -  2~~~~~~~~~~~O  -    -  -    "5~is   3 3-2           .       9       -        21           1                      1.                 2.F c                        i.                92.2      14..          -    '''1             1.
6a4t1:att3RF7F              att        -  ltl~~~~~~~~30  ---1          0      23.02'           et                  -    ..      -9    .2                       2             13-        -                  111.                th       314                  1 1     .21D~i  M.          0      MAI
tetettht  Fît  -227---îIh                         22.121           e-F     -          -   3.3        -'.2       -    -      -               -   1111.1      -             -   114.4              "r        r., --------  -t:---  9----------11----   ------   -----
t:3ra1e1  214FF43C73t411                                                             21.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--    --    ----   --- --    --- 2 . 7 . ..                                     ....- :-     - '43         F    17.                     1
'1,2 13F9e1e9 21.  2F 191732F  321'9h  2    -                        i :191.t…2.7    2.l                                                                                                             e~~~~~~~~~ r     122        1,F          -    36.5        O   t.?  t-              AI, 
72:11ERR.9 rteÀl E   AICFF  7F É           'F              2                          4 1:791i-2                       7     .       ' :       -    '     ,    '                            3.    1i-                                       742        P.!         -      93         1   2.2           2      77
11321  aERRelt0FX T         CO          -rIF IE',22                                                      -  3.117   2-          33.11                                                                                                                                      1.2       7
'731114uAS                     4r'1          -     a'oe                                              1'   33 13         - 22,3                                                                                                                    .     -     3      7'    .       .           I    37
13714443 CONSEI LERS Amr1r                                 411.c.32    .   11                                                    -    .        -5    ''   ''               '11               5.2                            -2               l'A       3,3l        -        5             22D          I     M1
3327F34141    9'1:239  377322'   -                                         - . -                                                                                                                                                             25.7        i   1.11         I      FIl~~~..  ... --   - -   - -- -- -   --   - -- - --   - --   --- -- -- -- - --  - -   -- -- -  -- -
9237124.   2. 03112                   271'  7?-                                                                                                                                                                                           2-111      211          -      2.2            2.''                31
"747ILL4147 '231139L                   FiR"11'                         2                    113-37'          C.'           - :.1      c.       -~             l i                                                                                                                           
Ap  F RF  il  2    2         3Ï i                m    014                             Q.,  0.5                                      3   é,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   MS                                 2i.8        9   0.9 c21  3.'31
1l4tt12172  11912221  7'?  -   12   7'   2'   22         1111       41.l1~~~~~~~~-1.- t1---------   ---  ---9-.-4             --    -----------  ----------5---3----  -----                                ------       ----  -9-----------
2312<9    9111121                        0.          -        '    2'      r       9         9.3              7 '.l4           .     .1            .   7.2   1.2j.   1.    '13   -S         '''4        "'               ,M  7                      U.          ~         9,7       3      I1
11     DE3 SECTEUR91                     -21             2'    7           2'''    732       2317h          3.6 3.1  2. 91.3.2         'I-               9  1.2   5-.12           é-       4.1    3.4   13.2  tt.3       311.4                      113                53.3         2LI7
ACR= 1943                         ''r              7 1 ' ' ' "                       2.11.32   2.2    l.  2.5   III  2.    11.2     22 '.   .1         . i1.1  12.2        2.        a,171 12,2  43.1   si       AI?llF                                    - 1l9i            7      3          I     '.
22' :~17P29     EJ9   C2                 VM1           -121 2 ? 2 '               2         2            1 3 32   .91.6,1.3           , 2.4    1.2 .27.31.79.    .3.1             1.        7.7   !q.4''.F772.'          11.l.                -      37           -        .        h      7         2       -le
D1N  e1i                                 31                 '    '    '2      1    1         4.3 r           .l. m    1.3 1         11.731   .1  1.11   ti -'.73.         3.1     '' '' '.S  'il   "5.                   "932. IC                                                   3      3 
-C  T1t                                  '1               1 2        2     I       0          t3        .l3       1.     - .   4.2   2.4   M. 3, C.2  9.3  1.1            3,l2               .     9.11t ll',2  ?27      111-                       11 l,l 
tel-aqin  l93I143  LOCaL                                                      8      5                  1.2           2,1.  39.   31.'3.l2         .72F.3         11,7321  1       17.11    220.3 1-1.3 f~ 77 9 .'7,      '114.3                   1,6197                '3.
7231  '1h41199  14. 332730F  3911 9            :.   :2    12 721   572 . 3 '3 3.                    '~M  ,   2.7   1.1   .2.2   2        ' 3.4.11 .5   1.5   2.1    2.!.O14                    31    3!.'    2?.9                133        932.9   1.2                       I                     L
2321 7t3243211 96FtFr   ltP  3301 '.11  -    F   'F7   I     '11    '29      221 3-V    9 2M               . r,3,3,  1.2    -,2,1.73l.9 .1.                                 111.9  21.3l.'    25.7    33.11i 2               4'       iF.           -    9.11    2.2       1.           3      M
43~À5                                   M 312.   R   2F   '1    'i   9'    192           7327      M      1s 7.93.29.37,2    5       r  1l 2 1.2  3.2   .!  7.         1                 . 3    .2iv  1   1.5 1. 11.7                   7.3       9.a5  1      -t7.2         3,9     27                   3
FIRltaEE     e1e911r       -    --    2      2    2        F    399.301~~~~~~~~~~~- -7----.--- .--- .-   1--  --3.---7.--1.3 -.3 --- 2.3                   --     t-----    a.--    '.2-  ----  -----             17.2---  ----2               22.3-2.22       1.7------
UA tal                                                                                                    '.ila7.r 97.2I0211 ' 36.3   311,2    3.3 F17  17.   215. 2.7               10~2.1t323554e?l339321.                                   319.' 3.337 2           -9-   3r34     D2 C.9                       V
Fe6r:era  12: 71195  11352'                                             ,       C          ~1,7 S  ~     ,    .éjb    ,         11                  .62?il    O1                                       .21  2 iE.                                 4.                m.        1z       






MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Comparison Between Projected and Historie- Implementation Patterns
5-Year  Implemèntation                                             8-Year  Implementation
Total
--------------                               Base Costs                    --------------
_________________________ ----                              ------------------------------------------               (USS
19i°',  1996  19j7  ! 9i3  1?9?  LJM   Mill.rn)            1985 1986  1987  1988  1989 1990 1991 1992   Wl   Million)
Irrigation Development                21.? 1 On.3  92.1    4.2    -  225 e       3.6              57.9  96.4  83.6  71.1 10.2  4.4    -    -  323.7           4.0
Farming  Inputs                        1.3  10.1 13.5  13.7    -   38.7          0.r                 -   4.7   9.0   7.0  6J7  4.8  4.6    -   36.8           0.5      i
Supporting  Services                   7.2  V. 1   '2.2 34.? 29.4  171.?         231               7.7  62.6  26.9  28.7 27.9 25.4 21.7 21*7  222.5           2.8 e
TtI  PAC'LIf TC£T1                       301 ,  1?.0  l13.9 .1  0 32 29. t  4?53 o   , 2             65.6 163.8 119.5 106.8 44.9 34.6 26.2 21.7  583.0           7.3
s4,h1cAl £ontinAenc.ies                3.2  20.2  147.9  10.8  2.5 *    ..t       O.",             0,0  19.1  14.0  11.5  5.4  4.0  2.8  1.9   58.7           0.7
FA ric r j3   tAiAf                3.1  1A 4C,t A       .s  0 e   i 4. c c    10 o              5.7  31.9  36.8  46.3 27.3 26.7 25.0 25.4  225*0           2.8
Totl 0ROJECI £9T 1CTC             o        .9 23. 3  0.3 171.5 50.9  699.?   ° 57                    71.4 214,7 170,3 164.5 77.5 65.3 54o0 49.0  866.7          10.8
=Z-  r==== =' =    =   S- S=== = == ==-                   ===========   ====   ==  ===r=S===
Forea-i  Ehane 2". 1 15t.0 12.3 10 i.1 12.4  431.9                               5 »              56.3 142,3 109.9 100.4 35.3 26.9 20.1 12.1  503.3           6.3
Februars 25v 1985  12'59
1/   Average  from  15  IDA-financed   irrigation  projects  in West  Africa  (1974  -  1983)






- 53 -
ANNEX 4-12
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Projected Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit  1/   2/
Disbursements
_Y      Quarter    Partial  Cumulative
--- US$ Thousands --
86         I           -          -          /
II         100         100   1yï-
III        100         200
IV         200         400
I   \5
87         I          100         500
II         200         700          \o
III        300        1000          \
IV         300        1300
2        1
88         I          300        1600
II        400         2000
III       300         2300
IV        300         2600
3            \36
89         I         400        3000
II        400         3400                     *4S
III       400        3800                       \
IV        300        4100
4                   5
90        I          300        4400
II        300        4700
III       300        5000
IV        300        5300
s                        \1
91        I          300        5600
II        300        5900   ,7
III       200        6100
IV        200        6300
92        I          200        6500
II        200         6700      :
III       200        6900
IV         100        7000
-7                                93
93        I           100       7100
II         100        7200
III        100        7300
IV         100        7400
94        I           100        7500      - _                     .  , _ _J_
1/   IDA, West Africa Region, Irrigation and Drainage subsector
disbursement profile.
2/   The assumed date of credit effectiveness is Juiy 1965.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5-i
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget Financial Data: By Crop
Perimeters                                 Diovol                        Fimbo                   Diogontourou
Conta                                Actuel         Full         Actual          Full         Actual         Pull
( M/hà )
Paddy
Seed 1/                             600          800            600          800             600          800
Urea 2/                           2,400       4,740           2,400        5,200          2,400        5,740
Fuel 3/                          3,960         3,746          4,248        4,496          4,320        4,986
Oil 4/                              756          756            696          696             636          636
Spares 5/                        2,432         2,432          2,242        2,242          2,052         2,052
Total costa                     10,178        12,474         10,186       13,514         10,008        14,214
Gross revenues 6/               59,063        59,063         59,063       59,063         59,063       59,063
Net revenues                    48,865       46,589          48,877       45,549         49,055       44,849
MR/md 7/                            196          186            196          182             196          179
Maize W.S.
Seed 8/                             540          540            540          540             540          540
Urea                              2,400        4,740          2,400        5,280           2,400        5,740
Insecticide 9/                      200          200            200          200             200          200
Fuel                             1,968         1,861          1,776        1,880          1,440        1,662
Oil                                 300          300            240          240             180          180
Spares                              988          988            798          798             570          570
Total costs                      6,396         8,629          5,954        8,930          5,330         8,892
Cross revenues 6/               55,125       55,125          63,000       63,000         63,000       63,000
Net revenues                    48,729       46,496          57,046       54,062         57,670       54,108
MR/md                               390          372            456          432             461          433
Maize D.S.
Crop inputs 10/                  3,140         5,480          3,140        6,020          3,140         6,480
Fuel                             3,624         3,428          4,272        4,521          4,776        5,512
Oil                                 540          540            540          540             540          540
Spares                            1,748        1,748          1,748        1,748          1,748         1,748
Total costs                       9,052       11,196          9,700       12,829         10,204       14,280
Cross revenues                  55,125        55,125         63,000       63,000         63,000       63,000
Net revenues                    44,073       43,929          53,300       50,171         52,796       48,720
;R/mnd                              369          351            426          401             422          390
Cowpeae
Séed 11/                         1,200         1,200          1,200        1,200          1,200        1,200
Insecticide 12/                  1,500         1,500          1,500        1,500          1,500        1,500
Fuel                             4,344        4,109           5,016        5,309          5,448        6,288
Oil                                 564          564            564          564             564          564
Spares                           1,824         1,824          1,824        1,824          1,824        1,824
Total costs                       9,432        9,197         10,104       10,397         10,536        11,376
Cross revenues 6/               61,600        61,600         61,600       61,600         61,600       61,600
Net revenues                    52,168        52,403         51,496       51,203         51,064       50,224
MR/md                               652          655            643          640             638          627
1/  Actual cost: 1UM15/kg, from output price of UM 12.5/kg, plus seed treatment and allowance for
storage.  Full cost:  assumes elite seed purchased et UM50/kg, multiplied out on PPVs, and
theu used for three years before renewal; this system ts not yet operating.
2/  Actual cost: UM12/kg.  Pull cost: UM23.5/kg at Kaedi, then UMO.2/kg/km derived from UM100/10-ton
truck/kg payable both ways.
3/ Actual cost: UM24/liter.  Full cost: UM22.5/liter at Kaedi, transport as at 2/.
4/  Actual cost: UM120/liter.  Full cost: the same, transport ignored.
5/  UM38/hour, being the average cost at 6,000 hours life.  Actual costs are full costs but for the
parts only; cost of workshop mechanical services is treated as a non-crop-specific cost at Table 3.
6/  UM12.5/kg paddy; UM15/kg maize; UM23/kg cowpeas.
7/ Net revenue per man-day equivalent.
8/  Actual cost the same as full cost:  UM18/kg, from output price of UM15/kg, plus seed treatment and
allowance for storage.
9/  UM40/kg, actual cost the same as full cost.
10/ Seed, urea and insecticide as for wet season maize.
11/ Actual cost the same as full cost:  Um30/kg, from output price of UM25/kg plus seed treatment and
allowance for storage.
12/ UM300/kg, actual cost the same as full cost; sprayer cost UM 10,000 over five years per 4 ha;
UM500/ha.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 55 -                                ANNEX 5-2
MAURITANIA
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget Financial Data: By Cropping Pattern and Composition of Costs
Perimeters                               Diovol                             Fimbo                        Diogontourou
Costs                          Actual             Full            Actual F1ll                        Actual            Fill
By Cropping Pattern ]/
Costs per crop:
Paddy                     7,123            8,732             3,056            4,054             1,002           4,264
Maize W.S.                1,919            2,589             4,168            6,257             3,731           6,224
Maize D.S.                3,395            4,199             5,820            7,697             6,122           4,568
Cowpeas                   1,179            1,150             2,020            2,079             2,107           2,275
Non-specific costs: 2/
TSP 3/                    1,440            2,244             1,440            2,568             1,440           2,844
Repairs 4/                  -              2,900               -              2,900               -             2,900
Pump set 5/               3,461            5,554             3,461            5,554             3,461           5,554
Total costs                 18,519           27,368            19,965           31,109            19,863          32,629
Gross revenue               86,253           86,253           111,939          111,939           111,939         111,939
Net revenue                 67,734           58,885            91,974           80,830            92,076          70,310
tlmd 6/                        252              219               371              326               371             320
Composition of Costs
Fertilizer 7/                4,740            8,761             5,280           11,016             5,280          12,028
Other inputs 8/              1,256            1,397             1,682            1,742             1,682           1,742
Sub-total:  Crop inputs      5,996           10,158             6,962           12,758             6,962          13,770
Fuel, oil and spares 9/      9,038            8,754             9,542            9,897             9,440          10,405
Repairs 7/                     -              2,900               -              2,900               -             2,900
Pump set 7/                  3,461            5,554             3,461            5,554             3,461           5,554
Sub-total:  Water           12,499           17,208            13,003           18,351            12,901          18,859
Total Costs                 18,495           27,366            19,965           31,109            19,863          32,629
1/   Kaedi Sector (Diovol): wet season 70% paddy, 30% naize; dry season 37.5% maize, 12.5% cowpeas; cropping intensity
150%; Gouraye sector (Fimbo and Diogontourou): wet season 30% paddy, 70% maize; dry season 60% maize, 20%
cowpeas; cropping intensity 180%.
2    N bon-crop-specific, and excluded from the above at Table 2.
3/  Actual costs:  LM 12/kg.  Full cost 1M 18.5/kg at Kaedi; then tM 0.2/kg/kn derived from I  100/10-ton truck/km
payable both ways.
4/   Cost of working mechanical services and site visits; actual charge to PPY zero.  Full cost: inferred from anrual
costs of Gcuraye workshop of LM 3.32 million for 37 perimeters.
5/   Actual cost: initial cost of 1M 454,000, subsidized at 50%, repayable over 4 years at 8.5%.  Rull cost: breakdown
tM 454,000 between motor (lM 240,000), repayable over 4 years at 8.5% and pump and base (UM 214,000) repayable
over 8 years.
6/   Weighted average man-day equivalents:  Kaedi sector cropping patter 269; Gouraye sector cropping pattern 248.
7/   The differences between actual and full costs represent the subsidy payable by SONADER.
8/ Differences are not subsidies, but represent the additional cost of a rice seed service once operational.
9/   Because SCNADER operates a single price for fuel oil throughout the valley, "profits" are made on the downstream
perineters that broadly offset the subsidies in the Gourave sector.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 56 -
MAURITANIA                                   ANNEX 5-3
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJEC1
Farm Family Budgets
Diovol                          Fimbo                    Diogontourou
WITHOUT PROJECI
Non-irrigated farming
Rainfed                                      8,000 a/                       17,740 b/                    17,740
Flood Recession                             12,120 c/                        8,290 -/                     8,290
Total net income                            20,120                          26,010                       26,010
Man-day input e/                             107                             129                          129
Net income/man-day (NI/md)                   188                             202                          202
Livestock net revenue f/                        9,000                          9,000                         9,000
Actual.         Fuli          Actuâl          Full         Actual         Full
Existing irrigation /                   10,160          8,833         18,395          16,166        18,415        15,862
Total farm net income                   39,280         37,953         53,405          51,176        53,425        50,872
Man-day input                            147            147            179             179           179           179
NI/md                                    267            258             298            286           298           284
Other income
Balance of man-days h/                   273            273             381            381           381           381.
Valued at opportunit cost             27,300         27,300         38,100         38,100         38,100        38,100
Total farm family income                66,580         65,253         91,505          89,276        91,325        88,972
Per man-day                              159            155            163             159           163           159
Per head                              11,681         11,448         11,438         11,159        11,440         11,121
WITH PROJECT
Without project farm income i/          39,280         37,953         53,405          51,176        53,425        50,872
Additional irrigation i/                30,480         26,498         55,184         48,498         55,246        47,586
Total farm net income                   69,760         64,451        108,589          99,674       108,671        98,458
Man-day input                            268            268             327            327           327           327
NI/md                                    260            240             332            305           332           301
Other income
Balance of man-days k/                   152            152            233             233           233           233
Valued at opportunity cost            15,200         15,200         23,300         23,300        23,200         23,300
Total farm family income                84,960         79,651        131,889        122,974        131,971       121,758
Per man-day                              202            190            236             220           236           217
Per head                              14,906         13,974         16,486         15,371        16,496        15,219
INCREMENTS
Farm net income                         30,480         26,498         55,184         48,498         55,246        47,586
Per head                               5,347          4,649          6,898          6,062          6,906         5,948
Other income                           (12,100)       (12,100)       (14,800)        (14,800)      (14,800)      (14,800)
Per head                              (2,123)        (2,123)        (1,850)        (1,850)        (1,850)       (1,850)
Total farm family income                18,380         14,398         40,384          33,698        40,446        32,786
Per head                               3,224          2,525          5,048          4,212          5,056         4,098
a/   1.25 ha millet/cowpeas at 250/150 kg/ha at UM 15/20/kg plus 12% by value for cowpea hay and net/gross
revenue factor of 0.9.
b/   0.40 ha millet/cowpeas as at a/; 1.6 ha sorghum/cowpeas at 400/150 kg/ha at UM 15/20 kg plus 12% by value
for cowpea hay and net/gross G.9; 0.2 ha groundnuts at 405 kg/ha at UM 20/kg plus 5% by bvalue for hay and
net/gross 0.9.
c/   1.9 ha sorghum at 450 kg/ha at UM 15/kg plus 5% by value for straw and net/gros. 0.9.
i 1.3 ha sorghum as at cl.
e/ Millet/cowpeas and sorghum/cowpeas 40 md/ha; groundnuta 50 md/ha; flood recession sorghum 30 md/ha.
1/   20 amallatock at 30% offtakn at UM 1,500/hoad.
8/   0.15 ha/family in Kaedi sector <Diovol), 0.2 ha/family in ¢ouraye sactor.
P    200 working daya/yaar; Kaedi familiesi  5,7 people  1.2 mon, 1,8 women, woman-days valued Lt 50% of a
min-day; balance is 420 - 147; Gouraye families:  à people, 1.6 men, 2.4 women, woman-dayi valued at 50%;
balance is 560 - 179.
i/   Total net farm income above.
8/ 0.2 ha/adult family member x 3 in Kaedi sector (0.6 ha/family) of which 0.45 additional ha/family; x 4 in
Gouraye sector.
k/   Kaedi:  420 - 268; Gouraye: 560 - 327.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



- 57 -                                   ANNEX 5-4
MAURITANIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Data and Indices
Perimeter                                  Diovol                  Fimba             Doiagontourou        Project
Coste                               Actual       Full       Actual       Full      Actual    Full  Full Costs
_L4/family farm           1/                    -
Annual, Incremental Basis
Groass revenue                      38,814      38,814      67,163      67,163      67,163     67,163      162,2
Loas: crop cash inputs               2,698       4,571       4,177       7,655       4,177      8,262       19.2
Net cash income                     36,116      34,243      62,986      59,508      62,986     58,901      143.0
Less: depreciation   2/                 102         102         102        102         102         102
family labor  3/                  16,100      16,100      19,800     19,800      19,800      19,800
management  4/                     1,806       1,712       3,149       2,975      3,149       2,945
own capital  5/                    1,013       1,013       1,350       1,350      1,350       1,350
risk allowance  6/                 3,612       3,424       6,299      5,951       6,299       5,890
sub-total                         22,633      22,351     30,700      30,352      30,700      30,291       78.8
Rent/surplus                        13,483      11,892      32,286      29,156      32,286     28,610       64.2
Rent as % not cash income                37          35          51         49          51          49         45
Water charges                        5,625       7,743       7,801      11,010       7,741      11,315
Present values  7/                                          (UM '000/family farin)
7%        10%          7%         10%          7%         10%       10%
Gross revenue                           429         352        732         599         732         599     1,453
Less: crop cash costs                    50          41          83         68          90          74        171
Net cash income                         379         311        651         531         642         525     1,282
Less: non-cash caste  8/                246         201        331         271         330         270        705
Rent/surplus                            133         110         320        260         312         255        577
Rent as % net cash income                35          35          49         49          49          49         45
Water charges  9/                        75          60         107         86         110          89       222
Rent recovery index                      56          55          33         33          35          35         38
Public sector outlays  10/              174         163         209        192         257         239       565
Cost recovery index                      43          37          51         45          43          37         39
Reference Points                                                (UM '000/head      0
Farmers' income/head 1987  11/                     14.0                   15.4                    15.2
CCL 1987 (60% of GMP/head)                         13.4                   13.4                    13.4
GMP/hand 1987                                      22,3                   22.3                    22.3
Noetl (armers' inrnme/hsad  1987
without the praojct  12/                        11.5                    11.2                    11.1
1/   Klssdi  ectoar (Dioval) I 0.45 incrûmrntal irrigâted hâ/ismilyt Gourapy  sectorl 0.6 ha.
2/   5% on piping: Diovol UM 91,000/perimeter or UM 2,048/family; Fimbo and Diogontoutou
UM 68,000/perimeter or UM 2,040/family.
3/   Man-day equivalents at opportunity co-t of UM 100/day.
4/   5% of Net Cash Income.
5/   10% return on sweat equity of 4,500 mandays/perimeter at opportunity cost of UN 100/day;
Diovol own capital UM 10,125/family; Fimbo and Diogontourou own capital UM 13,500/family.
6/   10% of Net Cash Income, as a premium to cover protracted pumnp breakdwons.
7/   At full-cost prices, discounted at the Gorgol rate of 7% and 10%, 20 years.  First year, wet
season only (Table 7).
8/   Sum of depreciation, etc.
9/   Full cost, except that the first pump set continues to be subsidized at 50%.  Repairs not
charged until Year 6.
10/  Investment costs - plus support services plus fuel, oil, spares and repairs as at Table 8.
11/ Table 4
12/  By valuing labor input to incremental irrigation at opportunity cost (UM 100/day) instead of
at net irrigation income.  The effect of the project at all three perimeters is to bring
farmers from about 15% below the CCL ta about 10% above it.
WAPAC
Feb. 1985



-8 -                              ANNEX 6
MAURITANLA
S1ALL-SCALE IRBIGAIION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Results
Fimbo    Diovol    Diogontourou    Total
- (En, 20 years)
Base Cases                                  38.7     18.5         26.4           25.0
A11 vith Kaedi cropping.pattera             24.6      18.5        16.4
A11 vith Gouraye cropping pattern           38.7      30.2        26.4
Without SCF factor                          36.7      15.9        24.2           23.0
Kaedi cropping pattern                   21.4     15.9         14.1
Gouraye cropping pattern                 36.7     27.9         24.2
Earthworks test                                          ( O '000)
investent cost (excl labor)               3,.374   4,382       4,853
Earthworks included                            1,283        1,380
Maxîmtm permissible earthtorks
for ERR 10Z                        7,424   3,841         7,042
for ERR 15%                        4,684   2,062         4,372
Sensit±vity Indicators                             (ERR, 20 years)
Costs up 10%                              32.4    13.3         20.9           19.6
Decline in points                          6.3     5.2          5.5            5.4
Benefits down 10%                         31.3    12.8         20.2           19.1
Decline in points                          7.4     5.7          6.2            6.0
Crossover Points for E     O 10%          --(2 change>)
Benefits                                  35      15           27             25
Costs                                     54      13           37             33
WAPAC
Fe-b. 1985



IBRD 16569
1<                                                                                         1V-                                                                                         15-
N0                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  0F MAURITANIA
-\\                                                                                                                                                                                        SMALL- SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
,=                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L < <  ARVE RR GATIRO PERIMETEES:
PEVRIMETERS 88-R CONSTRUCTION
SMALL IRRIATIMON PERIMETERS:
=    TYPE A, ESTING
*    TYPE t, PROPOSED
R2    INRICATES THE NUMBER AF
fl,IGATION PERME-TES AT CEE SITE
-    LA-ERITE / POTH ROARS
-Pt r                                                                                                                                                           +?\        ;tIwtDUT                                                            RIVERS AND INTERMITTENT ST-AMS                    IE
o    CITIES
11MATT                                                REC[SIL CAPITAL
t    SCHDUELE  AIR SERVL'F-
-    SONA-ER BAVSE
AREAS SU.ECET TS IN-DRATION
S       PR      20      OS0      40                      <52                                                         \     \*2A'É 
KILOMETERS                                                -8 S                      y       ~     =:T                                                                        L
2~~~~~~~~~~~
g  ~~  ~  ~~  ~ ~~ ~ ~ i A L GE R I A -1 5 - g , ' s,  i                                                                                                                                               INBE
A          ) FOrmer  I                   1 -* v                                                                                                                          S t            ET
A         SpOIA U RE    I  AL N  1 A                                                                                                                                              OPEL-                                                                 H
-.~~~                                                                                                                                                                 111   I   CI 511
yi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    IO
-J                                                                                                                                                                                       S-~~ALISSIALO                 M      A      L
.04                                                                                                              .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SENEGAL         <             AI130                                                                                                                                                                                              2 



