CREDIT NUMBER 1571 MAIJ
DOCU MEN TS
Project Agreement
(Small-scale Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated                                 , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUM]BER 1571 MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    J       3                 , 1985, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
RURAL (hereinafter called SONADER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,700,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that SONADER agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
.oan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 3,500,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
the Development Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C)  the Fund will appoint the As,-ociation as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the foregoing, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SONADER shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SONADER in supervising con-
struction under Part A of the Project and in carrying out Part C
thereof, SONADER shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SONADER undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by SONADER to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) SONADER shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SONADER shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund,. promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-3-
(b) SONADER: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SONADER of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as ma- be agreed for this purpose between SONADER and
the Association, SONADER shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by SONADER and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and the Fund Loan.
(e)  SONADER shall enable the Association's and the Fuad's
accredited representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of SONADER and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. SONADER shall, not later than October 31 in
each year, furnish to the Association, and to each other external
agency providing financing for the Project, its proposed annual
budget and financial plan for the coming year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) SONADER shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association and the Fund with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) SONADER shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by SONADER of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. SONADER shall include in the bidding documents
for the procurement of the pumping equipment required under
Part A of the Project technical specifications satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 2.09. Under Part A of the Project, SONADER shall
use the proceeds of the Credit to finance only perimeters the
development of which has been approved by the Association.
For the purpose of seeking such approval, SONADER shall furnish
annually to the Association its annual work program showing for
each perimeter: final designs, cost estimates, the participation
agreement of the cooperative group concerned and, as appropriate,
draft tender documents for the mechanical earthworks to be
carried out by contract.
Section 2.10. Beginning in 1986 and for each year during
the execution of the Project, SONADER shall furnish to the
Association: (i) not later than September 30, a Project Imple-
mentation Report showing the physical and financial progress of
the Project; and (ii) not later than December 31, an Agricultural
Development Report on the approved perimeters and covering the
preceding dry and rainy seasons.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section .3.01. SONADER shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. SONADER shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SONADER shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONADER shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project.
(b) SONADER shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and
shall enable the Association's and the Fund's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 4.02. SONADER shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
including the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a),
audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including,


﻿-6-
without limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said
auditors: (A) on the separate accounts referred to in Section
4.01 (a) of this Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expen-
ditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan made available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the Fund Loan Account, respectively, on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Beginning with the 1985-1986 season, SONADER
shall sell inputs at their full cost.
Section 4.04. SONADER shall prepare and furnish to the
Association: (i) by December 31, 1985, a study on the feasibility
of introducing during the 1986-1987 season charges to cover the
full costs of maintenance and repairs of pumping equipment; and
(ii) by December 31, 1988, a study on the feasibility of elimi-
nating the subsidy on the price of replacement pumping equipment.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with their respective
terms; or


﻿-7-
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SONADER of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agrement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the
other Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this
Project Agreement of SONADER and of the lender under that other
Agreement shall remain in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify SONADER that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agree-
ment has terminated, all references in this Agreement to the
Fund, to the Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall,
with respect to the responsibilities of the Association as such
Cooperating Institution, be deemed to be deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SONADER:
B.P. 321
Nouakchott
Mauritania
Cable address:                        Telex:
SONADER                            807 MTN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONADER or by SONADER on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may be taken or
executed by its Director General or such other person or persons
as SONADER shall designate in writing, and SONADER shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  o
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
By /s/ 14)&chitJAW CA&d dad,44A
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SONADER shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. SONADER shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of ternational
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of preparing economical packages for bidding
purposes, goods shall be grouped under individual contracts
covering similar items.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 11 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the works included in Part A of the Project,
for the construction included in Part B thereof and for goods
other than pumping sets grouped in lots estimated to cost over
$50,000 equivalent, may be procured through limited international
bidding, that is, on the basis of a reasonable number of bids
received from selected potential suppliers.
2.   Contracts for goods other than pumping sets valued at less
than $50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of local
procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts for works or construction,
and any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SONADER shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SONADER
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
SONADER and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, SONADER shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SONADER and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, SONADER shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform SONADER and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          - day of   q    -
198 5.
FOR SECRETARY


