                                                     Document of
                                                The World Bank
                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                                Report No: 73767-RO




                                           RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                         ON A

                                 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                             OF THE
                                    SOCIAL INCLUSION PROJECT

                                             LOAN NO. 4825-RO
                                          BOARD APPROVAL DATE
                                               June 13, 2006

                                                          TO

                                                     ROMANIA


                                                December 13, 2012




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DLI       Disbursement Linked Indicators
DPL       Development Policy Loan
GOR       Government of Romania
MLFSP     Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Protection
PDO       Project Development Objective
SASMP     Social Assistance System Modernization Project




 Regional Vice President:     Philippe Le Houérou
       Country Director:      Peter C. Harrold
        Sector Manager:       Andrew Mason
      Task Team Leader:       Richard Florescu




                                2
                                                      ROMANIA
                                              SOCIAL INCLUSION PROJECT
                                                       P093096
                                                      CONTENTS




A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY……………………………………………………………………………….5




                                                                         3
                                  SOCIAL INCLUSION PROJECT

                                      RESTRUCTURING PAPER


   A. SUMMARY

This Project Paper seeks to restructure the Romania Social Inclusion Project – SIP (Loan no. 4825-RO)
(P093096) and to amend the Project legal documents, as required.
The proposed restructuring aims to: (i) extend the Project’s closing date by 17 months f rom February 1,
2013 to June 30, 2014, and (ii) amend the description of activities from sub-component 3.4 of the Project to
allow the upgrade of the management information system for the administration of the social assistance
benefits. This was requested by the Government through letter to the World Bank dated October 4, 2012.
The Project’s objective is to support Romania to: (i) raise the living standards and the social inclusion of
disadvantaged people and (ii) strengthen the administration of the social assistance benefits. It is financed
with a loan in the amount of EUR 47.2 million and organized around four components: (1) Priority
Interventions Program (EUR 13.7 million); (2) Inclusive Early Childhood Education Program (EUR 6.1
million); (3) Social Assistance Programs for persons with disabilities, youth at risk, and victims of domestic
violence and delivery of social assistance benefits (EUR 27.2 million); and (4) Capacity Building for Social
Inclusion (EUR 200,000).

   B. PROJECT STATUS

The Project was approved on June 13, 2006 and became effective on March 16, 2007. To date the project
was extended twice, with an aggregate of 23 months. Total payments have reached the level of EUR 25.5
million (54.0% of the total loan funds-EUR 47.2 million). In the coming months, disbursements will
continue to increase as a result of the implementation of ongoing contracts for the construction of social
assistance services centers for vulnerable groups under Component 3 of the Project. The total level of
commitments is close to EUR 36.2 million (76.6% of the total loan funds).
All the activities initially included in Components 1 and 2 of the project have been satisfactorily completed
and additional financial resources were re-allocated to Component 1 (on the occasion of the project
restructuring from April, 2011) to support the implementation of an additional 33 sub-projects in poor Roma
communities. All these new sub-projects will be completed by the end of 2013, provided the proposed
closing date extension will be approved.
Overall, project implementation has been much slower than originally anticipated, mainly due to long and
cumbersome procedures for the approval of the social service sub-projects containing civil works, financed
under Component 3 and by the heavy winter of 2011-2012 which delayed civil works. Under this
component, 34 sub-projects (worth EUR 19.7 million) aimed at providing the delivery social services to
persons with disabilities, youth at risk and victims of domestic violence have been approved for financing.
Out of these, 5 were finalized, 12 will be finalized by the current project closing date (February 1 st, 2013)
and the remaining 17 are in various stages of implementation, with good chances to be completed before the
end of calendar year 2013.
In the last project restructuring, a new sub-component was included in the project design under Component
3 including several technical assistance activities to support the implementation of the ongoing results based
financing Social Assistance System Modernization Project (SASMP). The implementation of these activities
is well underway but they will have to continue, supporting the achievement of the remaining 14
Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs) under SASMP, until June 30, 2014.
Despite the satisfactory progress under Components 1 and 2, the achievement of the PDO is still rated
Marginally Satisfactory, as the delays in the availability of the social assistance services (for persons with
disabilities, youth at risk and victims of domestic violence) have compromised the Project’s likelihood of
fully attaining its development objective by its current closing date. However, the monitoring and




                                                      4
evaluation studies indicate significant improvement of the living conditions for the Roma population that
benefited from the project as well as an increased access of Roma children to inclusive early childhood
education. Also the harmonization of the eligibility criteria for various groups of beneficiaries of social
assistance support led to a more efficient administration of these benefits.


    C. PROPOSED CHANGES

   Extension of the Closing date. It is proposed to extend the Project by 17 months from February 1, 2013
    to June 30, 2014. Within this new timeframe, it is expected that the Project would fully meet its PDO.
    The Project is currently rated Marginally Satisfactory due to the extensive delays in sub-project
    approval, which have prevented timely implementation of Component 3 and therefore the inability to
    reach the PDOs by the current closing date of February 1, 2013. All the necessary approvals have been
    received, the works are under implementation and the Project is now set to disburse quickly. Thus, the
    PDO should be achieved by the revised closing date.

   Components. The description of project activities for Component 3.4 (Improving the Administration of
    Social Assistance Cash Transfer Programs) is proposed to be amended so that additional modules for the
    payment of new social assistance benefits can be included in the up-grade of the IT system operated by
    the National Agency for Social Benefits, without impacting the cost categories or the results framework.

    D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

   Economic and financial analysis. The original analysis remains unchanged except for the fact that an
    increased number of beneficiaries 137,414 (Roma and non-Roma) would have access to improved
    community infrastructure and social services, compared with the original estimate of 106,914
    beneficiaries.

   Risk. The Project’s overall risk rating was Significant at the time of Board Approval. It will remain
    significant under the proposed restructuring. Sensitivities related to social inclusion of the Roma
    remain, not only in Romania, but across Europe, and may be adversely exploited under a changing
    political environment. The risk of weak institutional capacity of the National Agency for Roma
    indentified at appraisal has been confirmed during implementation. On the other hand, low community
    capacity to take advantage of the Project has not been as severe as anticipated. Instead, the delays in the
    approval process of community sub-projects happened at the institutional level.

    Two new risks have emerged since Board approval of this Project: (i) political volatility in the country
    and (ii) the global financial crisis. Political volatility and a high turn-over of counterparts affected most
    projects in the Romania portfolio, including the SIP, and the project team had to make significant efforts
    to ensure the continuity of project activities. It is hoped that after the December 2012 parliamentary
    elections the political landscape will stabilize. The global financial crisis also negatively impacted
    Romania. The Local Public Administration authorities that are implementing the activities related to the
    construction/rehabilitation of social assistance centers (under Component 3) faced difficulties in
    securing the necessary co-financing resources.




                                                       5
