 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14761

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Romania
             Project ID: P093096                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Social Inclusion             Project Costs (US$M):                      71.40                53.40
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       58.50                37.60
      Sector Board:        Social Protection          Cofinancing (US$M):                         0.9                  0.9

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                06/13/2006
                                                               Closing Date:           03/01/2011           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Other social services (68%); Central government administration (22%); Pre-primary
                           education (10%)
         Theme(s):         Other social protection and risk management (29%); Vulnerability assessment and
                           monitoring (29%); Urban services and housing for the poor (14%); Participation and civic
                           engagement (14%); Education for all (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof      Denise A. Vaillancourt Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Development Objective (PDO) in the Loan Agreement (p. 6) was to improve the living conditions and
    the social inclusion of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people in Romania.

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 3) had the following PDO: to improve the living conditions and the
    social inclusion of the most disadvantaged vulnerable people in the Romanian society by: (i) improving the living
    conditions and social inclusion of Roma living in poor settlements; (ii) increasing the inclusiveness of ECE [early
    childhood education] services in targeted areas; and (iii) improving the quality of services for PWD [persons with
    disabilities], youth at risk and victims of domestic violence.

    The PDO was revised in a restructuring on March 28, 2011. The new PDO was to (i) improve the living
    conditions and social inclusion of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people in Romania and (ii) strengthen
    the administration of social assistance benefits. At the time, 16 percent of the Bank loan had been disbursed.
    The achievement of objectives will be assessed using sub-objectives (i) to (iii) in the original PDO in the PAD and
    objective (ii) of the revised PDO. The original PDO in the Loan Agreement, and the first objective in the revised
    PDO, are overarching welfare outcomes, while the other elements are specific and monitorable objectives.
    A split rating will be used between the sub-objectives (i) to (iii) of the original PDO in the PAD on the one hand,
    and objective (ii) of the revised PDO on the other..

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 03/28/2011
c. Components:
 Note: In the absence of accurate information on project component costs, the costs listed below indicate use of the
Bank loan.
    Component 1: Priority Interventions Program (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 13.25 million; actual cost US$
    16.98 million). The component was to support the Romanian Social Development Fund’s (RSDF) program to
    improve living conditions and social inclusion for Roma through better infrastructure and basic social services.
    The project would finance: (i) demand-driven community sub-projects; (ii) promotion, information, and education
    campaigns; M&E activities; and training for local authorities, community groups, and nongovernmental
    organizations (NGOs); (iii) capacity building at the community level and in the RSDF related to sub-project
    development; and (iv) provision of technical assistance to poor Roma communities to prepare projects to be
    financed through EU funds. Activities were to focus on about 100 poor settlements. The component was to be
    implemented by RSDF.

    Component 2: Inclusive Early Childhood Education (ECE) Program (estimated cost at appraisal US$6.9 million;
    actual cost US$ 7.5 million). The component was to support the Ministry of Education and Research’s (MER)
    ECE program with the particular aim of mainstreaming participation of children from vulnerable groups, including
    the Roma, into the regular policies and programs of the Ministry. The component was to include: (i) construction,
    extension, rehabilitation and furnishing of ECE infrastructure in communities with a high percentage of Roma; (ii)
    development of an inclusive ECE curriculum, the provision of training to ECE staff, the development and
    distribution of ECE teaching and learning materials, and the provision of technical assistance to entities entitled
    to submit applications for projects to be financed through EU structural funds; (iii) promotion of integrated
    services and alternative community-based solutions for ECE, including the development of coherent ECE
    legislation, and the provision of training and counseling programs for parents; and (iv) carrying out monitoring and
    evaluation and information, education and communication activities. The component was to be implemented by
    MER.

    Component 3: Social Assistance Programs (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 32.4 million; actual cost 33.71
    million). The component was to support programs under the Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family
    (MLSSF) to improving the situation of PWD, youth at risk and domestic violence victims. The component was to
    be implemented by the MLSSF. It included three sub-components:
    Sub-Component 3.1: Disabilities Program . The sub-component aimed at restructuring institutional care and
    developing alternative community-based systems of assistance for PWD. This would be done by: (i)
    implementing sub-projects proposed by local authorities; (ii) institutional capacity building by training professional
    staff to new standards of care, and developing the monitoring and evaluation system; and (iii) expanding a pilot
    on occupational counseling services to restructured services.
    Subcomponent 3.2: Youth at Risk Program . The subcomponent was to support youth age 18 and over in social
    integration after exiting institutional care. This would be done by improving their access to integrated social
    services that would increase their readiness for independent living. The sub-component would finance
    subprojects submitted by local authorities to establish multifunctional centers providing protected housing and a
    range of services to facilitate integration into mainstream society. It would also finance monitoring and
    evaluation, training for counseling and to MLSSF staff involved in supervising the centers established, and public
    awareness campaigns.
    Subcomponent 3.3: Victims of Domestic Violence Program . The subcomponent was to support the
    development of integrated social services for victims of domestic violence. It was to finance subprojects
    submitted by local authorities for housing to shelter victims and their dependents. It was also to finance training
    for staff, a management information system , and public awareness campaigns.
    Component 4: Capacity Building for Roma Social Inclusion (estimated cost at appraisal US$0.9 million; actual
    cost 0.25 million)). The component was to provide assistance to the National Agency for Roma (NAR) and its 8
    regional branches in inclusive planning, monitoring and evaluation, and identification, preparation and
    implementation of programs to be financed through EU and other funds. This was to be done by: (i) training of
    NAR staff, Roma NGOs, local authorities and Roma community initiative groups; (ii) developing an information,
    education and communication strategy; and (iii) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system. NAR was
    to implement the component.
    Revised components
    The PDO was revised in a restructuring on March 28, 2011. The restructuring included the introduction of a new,
    fourth, sub-component into Component 3.
    Sub-component 3.4: Social Assistance Cash Transfer program . The new sub-component was to support an
    ongoing Social Assistance System Modernization Project (SASMP) and included a range of activities to increase
   efficiency in the administration and monitoring of social assistance benefits: (i) upgrading of the management
   information system for the National Agency for Social Benefits (NASB) with modules for family allowances and
   guaranteed minimum income (GMI); (ii) harmonizing means-testing procedures for social assistance; (iii)
   harmonizing disability assessment criteria and the institutional framework for disability benefits and invalidity
   pensions; (iv) developing institutional capacity and tools to prevent and combat error and fraud; (v) promoting
   public information campaigns on proposed reforms for efficiency and targeting of social assistance; and (vi)
   implementing monitoring and evaluation activities to assess the incidence of social assistance transfers and their
   impact, and savings gained from consolidating social assistance benefits and simplification of their
   administration.
   At the same time, Component 1 was expanded to include 16 additional settlements to the 100 already targeted
   for provision of basic infrastructure and social services to the most disadvantaged Roma.

   The new activities were financed by reallocating funds: US$ 1.7 million were reallocated from Component 4, and
   US$ 1.7 million from Component 3, both to Component 1 to finance the additional settlement investments; US$
   7.4 million was reallocated within Component 3 to finance the new sub-component. The space for reallocating
   funds was in part created by capacity constraints in implementation, especially in the NAR, in part due to financial
   constraints on co-financing by local authorities, as local budgets felt the effects of the international financial crisis;
   and in part due to grant financing by the European Union for NAR activities.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The information on costs, financing and borrower contribution has been provided by the project team, and is a
   correction of the costs indicated in the ICR.

   Project costs. Total project costs were estimated at US$ 71.40 million at appraisal; actual costs at closing were
   US$ 53.50 million. The change reflects the cancellation of US$ 20.9 million of Bank funds due to underspending
   on community sub-projects; and an increase in costs due to an increase in the Romanian value added tax that
   affected Borrower funding.

   Project financing. The Bank provided US$ 58.50 million. Of that, US$ 37.60 million had been spent at project
   closing. Communities contributed US$ 0.9 million
   Borrower contribution. The Borrower contribution was US$ 12 million at appraisal. With an increase in the VAT
   in 2010 from 19 percent to 24 percent, the Borrower contribution increased to US$ 15 million.
   Dates. The project was approved on June 6, 2006 with an original Closing Date of March 1, 2011. The Closing
   Date was extended three times, a first time from March 1 to May 1, 2011 to allow preparation of the new
   sub-component; a second time on March 28, 2011, when the PDO was revised, to March 1, 2013; and a third
   time from March 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014, at which time the project closed. At the time of PDO revision, US$
   9.99 million, or 17 percent, of the loan had been disbursed


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   High for the original and the revised objective
   The Social Inclusion Project was developed as Romania increased its attention to social inclusion and poverty
   reduction targeted at vulnerable groups in anticipation of its joining the European Union (EU). Vulnerable groups
   were identified as the Roma minority, children at risk, persons with disabilities, and youth over 18 transiting from
   the state child protection system. Social inclusion and a focus on disadvantaged groups remain important
   elements of Romania’s development strategy post-EU accession: they are present in the most recent national
   strategy for social inclusion and poverty reduction covering the 2014-2020 period, and form part of Europe’s
   “2020 strategy” to which Romania subscribes as a member of the EU. The PDO also is aligned with the Bank’s
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS 2014-2017) for Romania. Social protection and the inclusion of low-income
   communities, especially the Roma, remain a priority in the strategy for FY2014-2017, and inclusion is one of the
   three pillars of the CPS. The lending program for the new CPS period includes an Institutional Development
   Fund (IDF) operation for social inclusion. The revised PDO is also in line with Government and Bank policy – the
   new sub-component (sub-component 3.4) supports the implementation of an ongoing Social Assistance System
   Modernization Project (SASMP), and includes a range of activities to strengthen the administration of the
   Government’s cash benefit system.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Substantial for the original project and for the revised project.
   The original design was relevant to the PDO – it included activities that aimed at improving living conditions and
   social inclusion. To do so, it chose a program-based approach, contributing to the implementation of a series of
   ongoing Government programs that were relevant to the PDO. The program approach was to be implemented by
   means of defined annual development plans where the Bank and the Government agreed on specific activities
   under each program, which would be financed by the project during the upcoming year. The results framework
   had a statement of objectives linked to outcomes. Indicators were measurable and related to each of the
   programs being supported by the project. Monitoring and evaluation design (discussed in Section 10) allowed
   outcomes to be annually monitored. The design of the revised project included the original design, which
   maintained its relevance, and introduced measures to strengthen the administration of cash benefits
   (sub-component 3.4). These were introduced drawing on savings under the original project. While initially broad
   in scope, during implementation they would be limited to changes in the management information system, as
   other elements would be financed from non-Bank sources and the SASMP.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The original PDO as stated in the Loan Agreement, and the first sub-objective in the revised PDO are
   overarching welfare outcomes. Instead, efficacy will be assessed on the following specific sub-objectives drawn
   from the original PDO and the revised PDO: to improve the living conditions and the social inclusion of the most
   disadvantaged and vulnerable people in Romania.by (i) improving the living conditions and social inclusion of
   Roma living in poor settlements; (ii) increasing the inclusiveness of ECE services in targeted areas; (iii) improving
   the quality of services for PWD, youth at risk and victims of domestic violence; and (iv) strengthening the
   administration of social assistance benefits.

   A split rating will be used between sub-objectives (i)-(iii) and sub-objective (iv).

   Sub-objective 1: improving living conditions and social inclusion of Roma living in poor settlements
   Rating: Substantial
   Outputs
        133 integrated projects benefiting 58,800 people (19,500 women); including 90 with community roads, 30
         improving utility access, 62 with a social services component, 17 with a medical services component, 9 with
         a housing component, 21 with a community center, 21 with an environmental protection component
        4 public information campaigns, information disseminated to 214 communities, 18 regional information
         seminars attended by 647 people, 23 training session for community coordination committees, 3
         experience-sharing networks between beneficiaries including 12 network meetings, 171 eligible Roma
         communities received community facilitation services
        1,659 annual consultations of Roma in poor settlements with local authorities over the project period
   Outcomes
        The gap between targeted Roma settlements and neighboring communities as measured by the living
         conditions index narrowed by 62 index points as compared to a target of 20 index points, and a baseline of
         504 index points
             83 percent of targeted Roma settlements have access to improved infrastructure as compared to a
              target of 60 percent and a baseline of 10 percent
        74 percent of targeted poor Roma settlements acknowledged an improvement in basic living conditions as
         compared to a target of 70 percent.
             76 percent of Roma from targeted poor settlements agree that sub-projects reflect community priorities
   The project was successful in improving living conditions of the Roma; it is less obvious that their social inclusion
   improved. Outcome targets for improving living conditions as measured by a living conditions index were
   exceeded, and the results were recognized by a majority of beneficiaries. The narrowing of the living conditions
   gap between Roma settlements and neighboring communities measures greater social inclusion only in the
sense of Roma being “separate but equal”. A somewhat stronger indicator of social inclusion may be the
increased number of annual consultations between poor Roma settlements and local authorities on Roma
community needs. The ICR (p.23) points to further anecdotal evidence of enhanced dialogue and cooperation,
as well as the establishment of community groups to institutionalize a process for addressing Roma concerns, all
indicators of higher social inclusion. Roma communities also reported that closer links were being established
with local authorities.

Sub-objective 2: increasing the inclusiveness of ECE services in targeted areas ;
Rating: Modest
Outputs
    Built and furnished 19 new pre-school units and refurbished 8 exiting units in areas where there is a large
     percentage of Roma children age 0-6
    ECE curricula for children age 0-3 and revised curricula for children age 3-6, designed to enhance
     socio-economical and physical health and coherence of the early education
    Developed a methodological guide for teaching the new 0-3 curriculum; and a good practice guide for
     teaching and non-teaching staff for ages 3-6
    Updating of quality standards for teaching and learning materials and of norms for supplies
    In-service training for upgrading of staff skills in ECE units, including training modules
    Provision of ECE teaching and learning materials, primarily for project ECE units
    Training in preparation of ECE projects eligible for EU financing
    Development of community-based services on a pilot basis
    Training programs and modules for counseling parents were developed
    Development of a monitoring and evaluation system for early childhood development
Outcomes
    6 percentage point increase in children from vulnerable groups in targeted communities participating in ECE,
     as compared to a target of a 5 percentage point increase
    11 percent increase in staff with skills in inclusive education
Outputs under the sub-objective include a list of activities creating the kinds of early childhood development
opportunities and pre-school education situations that should over time plausibly lead to better outcomes in ECE
in the targeted areas. The immediate effects during the project period were, however, modest: an increase from
70 to 76 percent in the number of children from vulnerable groups participating in ECE. To that should be added
the community-based pilot which was successfully introduced into isolated communities, exposing parents to
early childhood education and practices.
Sub-objective 3: improving the quality of services for PWD , youth at risk and victims of domestic violence .
Rating: substantial
Outputs
1. Quality of services for PWD
    Established 6 neuropsychiatric recovery and rehabilitation centers, 7 assisted care centers, and 25 protected
     dwellings, conforming to defined quality standards for resident centers, day centers and assisted housing for
     adults with disabilities. The facilities cater to a total of some 850 beneficiaries
2. Quality of services for youth at risk (youth 18+ leaving institutional care)
    10 multi-functional centers for youth at risk were established, and seven of these are already in operation,
     catering to 175 youth
3. Quality of services of victims of domestic violence
    4 shelters were constructed, offering temporary shelter and social services to a total of 209 female victims
     and minors
    An awareness campaign, including 7 conferences, surveys of public attitudes, and 41 street events,
     distribution of materials
Outcomes
        The new services for PWD were realized in accordance with the specific quality standards for residential
         centers, day centers and assisted housing for adults with disabilities, approved by order of the president of
         the National Authority for Disabled Persons; at the time the ICR was being prepared, some centers for PWD
         were still being completed
        Share of youth benefiting from multifunctional centers who found employment reached 40 percent, equaling
         the target


    Revised PDO: (i) improve the living conditions and the social inclusion of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable
    people in Romania; and (ii) strengthen the administration of social assistance benefits.
    The assessment of the revised PDO will include (i) the assessment contained in the Original PDO; to which will
    be added (ii) an assessment of strengthening the administration of social assistance benefits
    Sub-objective 4: strengthening the administration of social assistance benefits
    Rating: substantial
    Outputs
        The National Agency for Social Benefits (NASB) cross checks information with an increasing number of
         databases from a starting point of zero
    Outcomes
        The scope of the management information system for the National Agency for Social Benefits (NASB), as
         measured by the number of large social assistance programs (or their successors) paid through that system,
         increased from 4 programs in 2010 to include all 8 programs by 2014.
    The sub-objective initially had a more ambitious agenda, as indicated above in the description of the component.
    However, only the management information system would be implemented, as the other planned activities were
    either financed from non-Bank sources, or by a restructured SASMP. That said, the introduction of a common
    management information system allows consolidation of databases, ultimately likely to result in a single national
    registry. Already, the three small social assistance programs have been eliminated, and two others consolidated
    into a national family allowance; and a national registry for PWDs has been put into place.


5. Efficiency:

    Rating: modest
    No quantitative estimates of efficiency were undertaken, either in the PAD or the ICR, as much of the project
    (over 75 percent) consisted of demand-driven sub-projects designed or requested by communities. The ICR
    provides a qualitative and comparative assessment of cost-effectiveness. It points to strong performance by the
    RSDF (exceeding targets), and earlier studies that have indicated that RSDF tend to be systematically lower than
    for comparable programs. Investments in ECE introduce effective models that over time should have a strong
    beneficial effect on school and job performance of children from disadvantage environments. Expansion of
    activities for PWDs and at risk children will increase fiscal/financial costs in the immediate future, but should have
    long-term economic and financial cost saving effects. The harmonization of information systems and
    consequently social assistance programs should have a strong rationalizing effect. These efficiency gains must
    be weighed against inefficiencies that affected implementation, including the organizational and institutional
    complexity of design; limited capacity; the only partial use of project funds, and a cumbersome procurement
    process.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                                                                   %                                     %

    ICR estimate                                                                %                                     %
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   The ratings for relevance of objectives are high for the original project and the revised one. Both are directly in
   line with Government policies and Bank strategy. The ratings for design are substantial for the original PDO and
   for the revised one. They reflect a sound basic design and a balanced results framework, albeit that the latter is
   only focused on the management information system. Efficacy for the original sub-objectives is rated substantial,
   modest and substantial, the former rating reflecting improvements in living conditions and social inclusion, the
   absence of robust outcomes for the second sub-objective, and the achievement of targets in the third
   sub-objective. Introducing the revised PDO, the ratings from the original PDO remain the same, and the rating
   for the fourth, new sub-objective is substantial, reflecting substantial progress on the management information
   system. Efficiency is rated modest.

   Based on these ratings, the outcome rating for the original objective is moderately satisfactory . The outcome
   rating for the revised objective is moderately satisfactory . At the time of the introduction of the revised objective,
   the project had disbursed 26 percent of the Bank loan. According to OPCS/IEG guidelines for restructured
   projects, the final outcome rating is determined by the ratings for the original project and the restructured project,
   weighted by the percentage of the grant that disbursed before and after the restructuring.
   The weighted value of the outcome under the original objective is calculated as follows: 4 for moderately
   satisfactory x 26 percent of total disbursements before the introduction of the restructuring = 1.04. The weighted
   value under the restructuring is: 4 for moderately satisfactory x 74 percent = 2.96. The weighted average score is
   therefore 1.04+2.96 = 4.00. The combined outcome rating is therefore moderately satisfactory.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The risk to the development outcome pertains to the sustainability of the initiatives to maintain and further
   improve living conditions and social inclusion for vulnerable groups. Sustainability appears highly likely: the
   Government is committed as a member of the EU through the Europe 2020 initiative including social inclusion;
   and it is pursuing a strategy of social inclusion and poverty reduction, as well as a national Roma integration
   strategy. The Bank-funded MLFSP is providing funding for those initiatives. At the operational level,
   implementation of strategies is partly dependent on local authorities’ co-financing capacity, and here the risk may
   be moderate.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was relevant, responding to the Government’s strategic priorities. Its design was based on
   lessons learned during earlier Bank operations, extensive Bank involvement with Roma issues, as well as
   vulnerable groups more generally (disability, social care, social assistance); and a detailed social assessment
   of the provision of services to children and the disabled. It used existing government structures for
   implementation, and it secured continued government engagement by requiring annual, up-front
   commitments. The monitoring and evaluation system was designed to feed into this annual process. The
   Bank team identified key risks and introduced mitigating measures, but it did not sufficiently appreciate the
   organizational and institutional complexities of involving three ministries and two agencies, and local
   authorities and targeted local communities. A more careful analysis during preparation could have facilitated
   a smoother implementation. The absence of an overall coordinating body for harmonizing processes may
   have added to the challenge. Capacity constraints, especially in the National Agency for the Roma (NAR)
   and at local government levels, as well as a lengthy and cumbersome sub-project cycle, would quickly show
   up and slow down overall progress during the early stages of implementation. The project would come to
   extend from an original five years to eight years. Some of this could have been avoided had more attention
   been paid to the implications of Government-level bureaucratic processes on project implementation –
   effectiveness procedures and approval requirements for sub-national investments – as well as the institutional
   framework for coordination..

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
    While the challenges that were insufficiently addressed in Quality at Entry – coordination, capacity, processes
   – would complicate implementation and the supervision process, supervision, which was undertaken from the
   field office with the support of specialists, was able to manage many of those challenges as reflected in the
   assessment of efficacy above. Supervision focused on monitoring progress on the indicators in the results
   framework; and it placed particular emphasis on supporting NAR, where performance was particularly weak.
   This was not altogether successful, and significant project resources – 10 million euros – were reallocated to
   provide technical assistance for social assistance reform, initially a short-term response to the poverty effects
   of the international economic crisis. While this addressed an important issue, it fell outside the framework of
   the original project and its objectives


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government was consistently committed to the project, despite several government and ministerial
   changes (ICR p. 14). While fiscal constraints, especially during the international economic crisis, did affect
   implementation, especially through local budgets, the Ministry of Finance did provide timely funding within its
   limitations, also through seeking other sources of external funding. The performance was somewhat
   dampened by cumbersome implementation and approval procedures, and the inability to introduce
   inter-agency coordination for implementing the living conditions and social inclusion strategy.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project was implemented by two ministries (MLSFP and MER) and two agencies (RSDF and NAR). The
   RSDF, in charge of the priority interventions program (Component 1), performed well with a strong staff, good
   governance and prior experience with the Bank. Likewise, the MER, in charge of the ECE program
   (Component 2), performed well, also with the benefit of prior Bank experience. The performance of MLFSP
   was weaker: it was the Ministry most affected by the government changes, it was restructured during
   implementation due to the effects of the economic crisis. With its project components being the ones most
   dependent on local authorities, it was the agency most affected by cumbersome procurement rules.
   Component 3 was most affected by a weak institution, as NAR would turn out to be the weakest performer of
   the central agencies: although central to the Roma aspect of the project, it had low capacity and appears to
   have demonstrated only intermittent commitment to the project; while local authorities who were responsible
   for civil works, had low capacity and faced cumbersome procurement procedures. These factors are likely to
   have significantly contributed to the de facto underspending on the project.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Each project component had a built-in monitoring and evaluation component that consisted of an annual project
   report provided by the four main agencies (MLSSF, MER, RSDF and NAR). They were based on administrative
   data, beneficiary assessments and independent evaluations; and they informed the annual outcome plans and
   progress on the results framework. Objectives were clearly specified, albeit with some ambiguity as to what
   actually went into the determination of “living conditions” and “social inclusion”. This was, however, overcome by
    the indicators, which all could be included under those broad headings. All indicators were measurable. Data
    collection and processing was to be done by the implementing agencies. Their capacities for M&E varied, with
    RSDF and MER having some capacity, and MLFSP and NAR limited capacity.

b. M&E Implementation:

    Implementation of monitoring, including the collection of baseline data, was slow to start, in part reflecting slow
    site selection for sub-projects, and in part capacity constraints. This was in particular the case in NAR, which
    was to build a database for Roma living conditions and social inclusion. A consultant was initially brought in to
    support NAR, but subsequently withdrew due to a contract dispute. Subsequently, each agency developed its
    own survey methodology to collect data and monitor outcomes. One consequence of this appears to have been
    that a number of intermediate indicators were dropped or revised during the 2011 project restructuring.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The information that was being generated by the agencies was used to set annual and monitor progress on
    outcome indicators. It is not clear that the specific M&E arrangements for the project feed into the Government’s
    broader efforts to address the needs of vulnerable groups.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project triggered the Bank’s Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) safeguard in view of the small
    infrastructure works and rehabilitation of existing works. It was classified as ‘FI’, with primarily B and some
    category C subprojects expected. The Operating Manuals included a chapter setting out environmental screening
    criteria and approach to identify and mitigate risks. The implementing agencies’ compliance with environmental
    screening criteria was supervised periodically, including reviews of subproject feasibility studies, with occasional
    site visits. Only minor issues were identified, which were promptly addressed.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management . Despite the substantial risk to financial management due to complex institutional
    arrangements that had been identified during appraisal, financial management performance including accounting,
    budgeting, and reporting was satisfactory throughout implementation, and proper control procedures were
    maintained. On-site supervision was conducted regularly, twice each year, with spot checks of selected
    transactions. All audit reports were received, occasionally with slight delays, but opinions were clean with only
    minor recommendations. The only issue that altered the project’s original financial arrangements related to the
    closing of the project’s three designated accounts and reimbursement to the Bank of amounts that had been
    advanced when the government took the decision to pre-finance all externally financed project expenditures with
    budget resources.

    Procurement. Procurement processes were satisfactory, although the national procurement legislation required
    approval at several phases of the process by several entities at the local and national level, including the need for
    inter-ministerial and even government approvals. This led to continuing delays in implementation. The Bank
    carried out post-procurement reviews on an annual basis, including site visits and physical inspection of the
    works financed. Only minor issues were identified (for example, limited bids received, minor reporting issues on
    evaluation reports, and bid opening procedures). One recurring issue was the lack of interest in potential bidders
    and firms expressing interest in consultancy assignments

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
n/a

 d. Other:
n/a
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate              Limited local capacity to implement new
                     Outcome:                                                     strategies

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR:

    A rigorous assessment of organizational and institutional capacities is critical at preparation and prior to
    implementation. This allows designers to properly calibrate project objectives, activities, and responsibilities,
    and establish realistic implementation schedules

    Coordination mechanisms need to be considered when multiple agencies are involved in project
    implementation. This may be particularly important for social inclusion programs, which tend to operate in a
    context of fragmented approaches, across sectors, and include a range of different interventions, diverse
    actors and differing institutional arrangements.

    Capturing how activities ultimately contribute to social inclusion is essential in the design of social inclusion
    projects. Construction and rehabilitation of facilities and training of providers – often the core of social inclusion
    action – are of course key to providing services. Yet, they do not represent the full measure of social inclusion
    and empowerment. Results frameworks would need to capture and measure what was built, but also how
    assets contribute to and translated into enhanced inclusion and well-being.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    This was a rich ICR, but at 42 pages it was also long. A less detailed discussion could have covered the same
    ground and been more cost effective. That said, the evidence presented and the analysis provided offered s
    strong results-oriented text on the basis of which to assess the project. The presentation of costs and project
    financing is confusing – cost and financing tables don’t match, and the reallocations during restructuring are
    unclear. Except for the length of the document and costs/financing, the ICR follows guidelines.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
