Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7450 HR
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 11, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7450 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 11, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CROATIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the second phase of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
Pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated September 20, 2005 (the Programmatic 
Adjustment Loan No. 7330-HR, as published in the Official Gazette/International 
Agreements 12/2005), the Bank has provided assistance to the Borrower in support of the 
first phase of the Borrower’s Program as such first phase was described in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank, dated August 8, 2005. 
 
The Bank has decided to provide this financing in support of the second phase of 
the Program on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already 
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Euro 
(EUR 150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to seventy- five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum from the date on which the 
Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions, subject to any waiver of a portion of such 
charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, 
or vice versa; and (ii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepte
d
by
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. 
To this end: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Section 1.B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Ministry of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Katanciceva 5 
 
Zagreb, 10000 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
862-21215 or 
 
(385) 1-492-25-83 
 
Zagreb 
  862-28133 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Suker 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand K. Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has privatized through CPF, or initiated liquidation procedures for 
at least forty-eight (48) companies with majority state ownership, including three 
companies defin
ed in agreement with the Bank as “the large loss makers”, all in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower has: (a) reduced enterprise subsidies to 2.78 percent of GDP in the 
calendar year 2005, and further to 2.44 percent of GDP in the calendar year 2006; and (b) 
provided for further reduction of enterprise subsidies to 2.2 percent of GDP in the 
national budget for the calendar year 2007.  
3. 
The commercial registration procedures have been simplified, and functions of 
enforcement of court decisions and participation in electoral commissions have been 
transferred from judges to other judicial personnel or outside the courts, and the Ministry 
of Justice has adopted new caseload and workload rates per judge. 
4. 
The Borrower initiated implementation of rationalization programs in one 
selected ministry and two state administration offices at the county level (including staff 
retrenchment, reassignment, and budgetary impact) based on functional review results. 
5. The 
Borrower 
has: 
 
(a) 
enacted a new Obligatory Health Insurance Act, acceptable to the Bank, 
defining a fiscally sustainable basic benefits package, reducing co-payment exemptions, 
and restructuring the supplementary health insurance; 
 
(b) 
introduced two lists of drugs – with and without co-payment 
requirements, with target revenues of HRK 400-500 million per year; and has regularly 
revised, as necessary, the above-referred lists to ensure achievement of the revenues 
target; 
 
(c) 
caused HZOZO to provide, commencing from March 2007, monthly 
updates of unemployed citizens eligible for exemptions based on the unemployment 
registry; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
caused HZOZO and MOHSW to conduct an assessment of the revenues 
from the administrative fees (after exemption reimbursements and administrative costs) 
and, if the cumulative revenues are below HRK 300 million per year target, HZOZO has 
taken adequate actions to strengthen control mechanisms and fee collection; 
 
(e) 
caused MOHSW to prepare a draft accreditation legislation for hospitals; 
 
(f) 
started implementation of the initial DRG model in hospitals at the end 
of calendar year 2006, and completed an initial evaluation and fiscal impact assessment 
of this implementation; and 
 
(g) 
caused MOHSW to complete the first phase of hospital master planning. 
6. 
The Borrower has adopted a strategy and action plan for reform of social benefit 
spending, has increased the share of benefits going to the most disadvantaged groups of 
population, and capped total social benefit spending at 4.0 percent of GDP in the calendar 
year 2007. 
7. T
he
Borrower has caused HZ to take actions required for reduction of HZ’s 
working ratio to 220 percent at the end of the calendar year 2005, further to 190 percent 
in the calendar year 2006, and to 170 percent at the end of the calendar year 2007.  
8. 
The Borrower has caused HZ to enter into a contract with CPF for the sale of 
four HZ subsidiaries, and has issued tenders for those four subsidiaries. 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
 
The actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Program include the 
following: 
1. 
The Borrower shall complete privatization of at least three HZ subsidiaries. 
2. 
The Borrower  shall sell majority shares of one shipyard, as agreed with the 
Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) adopt a new job classification system for the civil 
service; and (b) enact a new Law on Civil Service Salaries, acceptable to the Bank and 
including, 
inter alia
,
provisions for decompression and performance-based remuneration.  
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
Page  8
-
7
-
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts 
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in two tranches. The allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
First Tranche 
 
100,000,000 
Second Tranche 
 
50,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
150,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee   
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received 
payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
D. 
Tranche Release Conditions  
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; 
2.  
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is appropriate; and  
3.  
that the actions described in Section I.B of this Schedule have been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, it may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Borrower 
has not taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn 
Loan Balance. 
E. 
Deposit of the Loan Amount 
Page  9
-
8
-
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  
1. 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Loan into this 
account, an equivalen
t
amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the 
Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. Closing 
Date 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2012 
 
through April 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  11
-
10
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  12
-
11
-
APPENDIX 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group
Description of Item 
 
112  Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  13
-
12
-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
2. 
“CPF” means the Croatian Privatization Fund, established pursuant to the 
Privatization Law, adopted on March 1, 1996 (Official Gazette 21/96), as 
amended on July 1, 1997 (Official Gazette 71/97); and July 19, 2000 (Official 
Gazette 73/00). 
3. 
“DRG” means Diagnosis Related Groups. 
4. 
“GDP” means Gross Domestic Product. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
6. 
“HRK” means Croatian Kuna (
Hrvatska kuna
), the Borrower’s lawful currency. 
7. “HZ” 
means 
Hrvatske zeljeznice
,
the Croatian Railways company, established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on Railways (Official Gazette 123/2003), as 
amended on March 3, 2004 (Official Gazette 30/2004); the term also includes all 
legal successors of HZ, established pursuant to the Law on Reorganization of the 
Croatian Railways dated December 15, 2005 (Official Gazette 153/2005). 
8. “HZOZO” 
means 
Hrvatski zavod za obvezno zdravstveno osiguranje
 (Croatian 
Institute of Obligatory Health Insurance), or any legal successor thereto. 
9. 
“MOHSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, or any 
legal successor thereto. 
10. 
“MSTTD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and 
Development, or any legal successor thereto; 
Page  14
-
13
-
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote the Borrower’s economic growth and development and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 19, 2007, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
12. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to category entitled 
“Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Section II.B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:  
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:  
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put 
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.” All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
