CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 699 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Highway Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1977, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of Parts A and B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab
Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to assist in the financing of Parts A
and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,500,000 to
assist in the financing of Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;


﻿-2-
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Islamic
Development Bank (hereinafter called IDB) a loan (hereinafter
called the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $7,500,000 to
assist in the financing of Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the IDB
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Islamic Development Bank; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "CED" means the Civil Engineering Department, within
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Lorks, which is responsible for
constructing and maintaining roads and any successor to such
functions;
(b) "Other Loans" means the loans referred to in paragraphs
(B), (C) and (D) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and
(c) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1987, and ending December 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through CED with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in:
(a) supervising construction of the roads described in Part
A of the Project;
(b) carrying out the feasibility study described in Part B
(1) of the Project;
(c) preparing detailed engineering commissioned under Part B
(2) of the Project; and
(d) increasing the planning, operatlonal and maintenance
capacity of CED; the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section. 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿- 7 -
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for Parts A and B of the Project until
completion thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts A and B of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A and B of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association


﻿-8-
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out Parts A and B of the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, if the Association so requests,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than December 30,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, appoint duly qualified and competent persons,
within CED, to the positions of: (i) Head of the Maintenance
Division; (ii) Head of the Planning and Design Division; and (iii)
Head of the Materials Laboratory Division.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A and
B of the Project, of the CED.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
facilities adequate to collect and record, in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such information
concerning road traffic, road construction and maintenance costs
as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of its highway system.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably necessary
to ensure at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the
vehicles using its highways do not exceed limits consistent with
the design standards of such highways.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its highway system
to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,
equipment, facilities, staff, services and other resources
required for the purpose, and in particular, shall ensure that
adequate amounts for road maintenance are included in its budget


﻿- 10 -
each year. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, CED
highway maintenance staff and equipment shall be used exclusively
for highway maintenance.


-   1 1   - 
A R T I C L E   V 
R e m e d i e s   o f   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n 
S e c t i o n   5 . 0 1 .   F o r   t h e   p u r p o s e s   o f   S e c t i o n   6 . 0 2   o f   t h e   G e n e r a l 
C o n d i t i o n s ,   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   a d d i t i o n a l   e v e n t   i s   s p e c i f i e d   p u r s u a n t 
t o   p a r a g r a p h   ( h )   t h e r e o f ,   n a m e l y   t h a t : 
( a )   S u b j e c t   t o   s u b p a r a g r a p h   ( b )   o f   t h i s   p a r a g r a p h : 
( i )   t h e   r i g h t   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r   t o   w i t h d r a w   p r o c e e d s 
o f   a n y   o f   t h e   O t h e r   L o a n s   s h a l l   h a v e   b e e n 
s u s p e n d e d ,   c a n c e l l e d   o r   t e r m i n a t e d   i n   w h o l e   o r   i n 
p a r t ,   p u r s u a n t   t o   t h e   t e r m s   o f   t h e   a g r e e m e n t 
p r o v i d i n g   t h e r e f o r ;   o r 
( i i )   a n y   o f   t h e   O t h e r   L o a n s   s h a l l   h a v e   b e c o m e   d u e 
a n d   p a y a b l e   p r i o r   t o   t h e   a g r e e d   m a t u r i t y   t h e r e o f . 
( b )   S u b p a r a g r a p h   ( a )   o f   t h i s   p a r a g r a p h   s h a l l   n o t   a p p l y 
i f   t h e   B o r r o w e r   e s t a b l i s h e s   t o   t h e   s a t i s f a c t i o n   o f   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n 
t h a t :   ( i )   s u c h   s u s p e n s i o n ,   c a n c e l l a t i o n ,   t e r m i n a t i o n   o r   p r e m a t u r i n g 
i s   n o t   c a u s e d   b y   t h e   f a i l u r e   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r   t o   p e r f o r m   a n y   o f   i t s 
o b l i g a t i o n s   u n d e r   s u c h   a g r e e m e n t ;   a n d   ( i i )   a d e q u a t e   f u n d s   f o r 
t h e   P r o j e c t   a r e   a v a i l a b l e   t o   t h e   B o r r o w e r   f r o m   o t h e r   s o u r c e s   o n 
t e r m s   a n d   c o n d i t i o n s   c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h e   o b l i g a t i o n s   o f   t h e 
B o r r o w e r   u n d e r   t h i s   A g r e e m e n t . 


﻿-12-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
Borrower's right to obtain funds under the Other Loans other than
the fulfillment of the conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date August 30, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Article V
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Schedule 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
Mogadiscio, Somalia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works for            4,150,000           19%
Part A of the
Project including
consultants' ser-
vices for super-
vision
(2) Consultants' ser-          1,600,000           80%
vices for Part B
of the Project
(3) Unallocated                1,250,000
TOTAL      7,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures under Category (2) for detailed engineering
for upgrading the Dinsor - Gelib - Bardera road unless the
Borrower and Association have agreed (i) on the basis of the
results of the study included in Part B (1) of the Project, which
segments of such road, if any, for which upgrading is economically
justified; and (ii) on the terms and conditions of the contract
providing for such engineering; and
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures.


﻿- 18 -
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
reL ricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(1) Construction of a road of about 113 kilometers from
Hargeisa to Borama and a road of about 19 kilometers
from that road near Nabadid to Tug Wajale, both in
accordance, except as the Association may otherwise
agree, with the general design standards set out in the
Annex to this Schedule.
(2) The supervision of the construction of the said roads.
Part B:
(1) Carrying out a feasibility study of upgrading the road
from Dinsor to Gelib through Bardera.
(2) Preparing detailed engineering for upgrading of such
road, subject to the findings of the study described in
the foregoing paragraph (1).
Part C:
Strengthening the CED by providing:
(1) Technical assistance; and
(2) machine shop equipment for its central workshop in
Mogadiscio.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
General Design Standards for Hargeisa - Borama
Road and Link Road to Tug Wajale
Design speed                               80    km/hr
Roadway width                               9   m
Pavement width                              6.5 m
Shoulder width                              1.25 m each
Minimum horizontal radius                 300    m
Maximum gradient                            4.7 %
Minimum radius of convex
vertical curves                    7,000    m
Minimum radius of concave
vertical curves                    3,000    m
Minimum transverse gradient                 3    %
Maximum transverse gradient at
horizontal curves                      5    %
Equivalent single axle loading          8,200   kg
Pavement type                           Double bituminous
surface treatment


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The contract for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A
of the Guidelines.
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that ton/kilometer rates are used
as the basis for pricing subcontracts, if any, for transport
services in connection with civil works for the Project.
4.   The civil works included in Part A of the Project shall be
procured under a single contract.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Prequalification. All firms invited to bid for the contract
to construct the roads described in Part A of the Project shall
have been prequalified pursuant to procedures satisfactory to
the Association, and all firms so prequalified shall be afforded
equal opportunity to participate in such bidding.


﻿- 22 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contract.
(a) With respect to the contract for civil works, before
bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants employed
by the Borrower to evaluate such bids on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


