Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22315
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31220; IDA-31221; TF-22451)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR A
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
06/13/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 12, 2001)
Currency Unit = SOMONI
1TJS = US$ 0.426
US$ 1 = 2.35 TJS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARSP        Agriculture Recovery and Social         IMF         International Monetary Fund
Protection Credit.                    LOI         Letter Of Intent
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy             LSEs        Large-Scale Enterprises
DCA         Development Credit Agreement            LDP         Letter of Development Policy
FSU         Former Soviet Union                     MSEs        Medium-Scale Enterprises
QAG         Quality Assurance Group                 MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                  MOF         Ministry of Finance
GOT         Government of Tajikistan                NBT         National Bank of Tajikistan
IA         Implementing Agency                      PCRC        Post Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
LRC         Land Reform Committee                   PIU         Project Implementation Unit
IBTA1       First Institution Building Technical    PRGF        Poverty Reduction and
Assistance Credit                                   Growth Facility
IBTA2       Second Institution Building             RCPT        Republican Corporation of
Technical Assistance Credit                         Pakhteh Tajik
IBRD        International Bank for                  SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
Reconstruction and Development        SAC2        Second Structural Adjustment
ICB         International Competitive Bidding                      Credit
ICR         Implementation Completion Report        SSEs        Small-Scale Enterprises
IDA         International Development               SPC         State Property Committee
Association                           SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
IFC         International Finance Corporation       TADAZ       Tajik Aluminum Plant
TORs        Terms of References
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Manager/Director:    Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    M.R.Ghasimi, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TAJIKISTAN
SAC I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                             13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log FTame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P047438                                       Project Name: SAC I
Team Leader: Mohammad Reza Ghasimi                       I TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 18, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SAC I                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-31220;
IDA-31221; TF-22451
CountoylDepartment: TAJIKISTAN                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/02/98                                Effective: 08/21/98           07/31/98
Appraisal:  03/05/98                                 MTR:
Approval:  07/30/98                                Closing:  12/31/99           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Tajikistan/Office of the Prime Minister
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Kiyoshi Kodera                            Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:      Pradeep Mitra                             Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:   M.R. Ghasimi                             M.R. Ghasimi
ICR Primary Author:   Richard J. Carroll
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Developnment Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrolwer Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of Tajikistan's Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), as stated in the Report and
Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association, June 25, 1998, were to
support Government's efforts to: (i) restore macroeconomic stability by providing foreign exchange that



would help maintain essential imports and non-inflationary financing for budget; (ii) develop the private
sector through privatization of state-owned enterprises; (iii) promote an efficient banking system; and (iv)
enhance budgetary provisions for health, education and social safety net.
SAC's objectives were appropriate and consistent with the country's priorities enabling the Government to
continue the reform process. The objectives were consistent with Tajikistan's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) that was discussed by the Board in May 1996, as well as the subsequent CAS discussed by the
Board in conjunction with this SAC operation. The SAC also supported the Government's poverty
reduction strategy through privatizing enterprises, reducing inefficiency of resource use and reallocating the
social expenditures toward primary and secondary education and basic health services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions
3.3 Original Componenits:
SAC had three major structural policy components: (i) privatization of state-owned enterprises; (ii)
promotion of an efficient banking sector; and (iii) protection of the social safety net and social sector. All
policy areas of the SAC were identified and prepared with support from the First Institution Building
Technical Assistance (IBTA) Credit. The major objectives by component were:
Privatization of state-owned enterprises
-      Prepare legal framework for accelerated privatization and private sector
development
*      Develop comprehensive Privatization Action Plan
-      Accelerate privatization of small-scale enterprises
-      Accelerate conversion of medium and large-scale enterprises to open,
joint stock comrnanies
-      Protect shareholder rights by establishing a centralized share registry
*      Accelerate privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises
-       Sell state-owned unfinished construction sites
*      Accelerate privatization of the state-owned trucking fleet
*      Restructure the cotton marketing agency "Glavkhlopkoprom"
*      Prepare a plan for restructuring and privatization of the Tajik Aluminum Plant (TADAZ)
*      Privatize Cotton Ginneries
Promotion of an Efficient Banking System
*      Prepare and submit a new law on banks and banking to the Majles Oli
(the Parliament)
*      Improve the law on collateral to protect banks against defaults
*      Restructure current prudential regulations and improve National Bank
of Tajikistan's (the country's Central Bank) banking supervision capacity
*      Introduce internationally accepted accounting and auditing standards
systems for banks
*      Improve the payment systems and reduce risk and transactions costs
- 2 -



*      Restructure the largest banks, and promote savings mobilization and
efficient intermediation
Protection of the Social Safety Net and Social Sector
*      Protect social expenditures, in particular, ensure that health, education
and safety net receive a reasonable share of the Government budget
*      Ensure no outstanding arrears in the 1998 state budget for salaries,
pensions and social safety net and ascertain timely payment of these
expenditures
*      Complete a plan to restructure the social protection system
3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained as originally designed, although the second tranche was restructured into a new
second and third tranche, with an additional SDR5.0 million added to buffer against the spillover effects of
the Russian crisis. Tranche amounts and release dates are found in Table 1. The Government of
Switzerland co-financed SF3.0 million at the time of the second tranche release.
Date of Release
Tranche             Expected                    Actual             Amount in million US$
(Amount in million
SDRs)
1      7-1-98                    8-21-98                  19.6 (14.8)
2                3-31-99                    7-17-99                  22.9 (17.0)
3                  NA                       11-15-00               13.7 /a (10.3 /a)
Total                                                                     56.2 (42.10)
Source: Project files
/a Includes a supplemental credit of SDR 5.0 million.
Nine not-fully-met second tranche conditions, several of which were updated and modified, and one new
condition comprised the new third tranche. Section 10 provides additional details of the restructuring.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was rated satisfactory by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) with which this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) concurs. The QAG panel noted that the SAC was consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and its preparation complied with best practices because it
followed the implementation of the IBTA Credit, which carried out studies and led to legislative and
procedural changes that contributed to the SAC design and implementation. The weaknesses of the SAC at
entry were that Govemment commitment and support for privatization program was neither deep nor wide.
The QAG panel was also of the opinion that the budgetary and financial systems were not in a state that
- 3 -



could provide the Bank with an acceptable level of assurance about the use of public and credit funds. The
panel strongly recommended measures to improve budgetary and financial systems that could ensure proper
use of funds of quick-disbursing operations. The measures initially consisted of a targeted ad hoc set of
actions, including an audit of the use of the proceeds of the SAC, followed by technical assistance under the
Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit to strengthen the budget management
system.
The ICR would add that although SAC was launched in an environment where considerable major
difficulties were experienced afterward, the SAC seized an opportunity to make substantial progress in
privatization and set the stage for the financial sector to become a functioning intermediary. The targets for
privatization were substantial because of the Government's reform-mindedness and the Bank's desire for the
country to gain full benefit of this policy environment. In addition, the Bank had already carried out two
operations with minimal conditionality, the Rehabilitation Credit and the Agriculture Recovery and Social
Protection Credit. From experiences in other countries, it had been observed that it was best to carry out a
comprehensive structural reform program without overloading the implementation capability of the
Government.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outtcome/achievement of objective:
The SAC began strongly with major pre-Board presentation conditions and an action plan of specific
measures which was laid out in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Schedule 2
contained actions for all three components, but was weighted more heavily toward the privatization
component.  Subsequently, there were delays in fulfilling tranche conditions, especially with the
privatization component. However, in light of the development impact and the vast majority of objectives
having been fulfilled, the achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory overall. Annex I documents the
fulfillment of tranche conditions.
Stabilization
Macroeconomic stabilization was not a SAC component per se, but it was an objective of the SAC which
was supported through provision of foreign exchange to maintain imports and non-inflationary budget
expenditures. Table 2 summarizes the macro setting and suggests progress in macrostabilization. The
indicators reflect a fairly stable environment, but with a clear danger that inflation can flare up quickly as
shown in 1999. In that year, inflation increased from only 2.7 percent the previous year to 31.3 percent by
year's end. Although the IMF program led in achieving macroeconomic stabilization, SAC funds also
helped keep the Government deficit to a reasonable level.
-4 -



Table 2: Macroeconomic Indicators
1997       1998       1999       2000
Indicator                   Actual      Actual    Actual    Actual
Real GDP Growth-percent                       1.7         5.3        3.7       8.3
CPI-percent (end of period)                  163.6        2.7       31.3       60.6
Government Cash Balance (% of GDP)            -3.3       -3.8       -3.1      -0.6
Current Acct. Balance (millions of US$)      -56.0      -120.1     -36.0      -61.0
Gross Int'l Reserves (millions of US$)       30.0        65.3       58.1       87.2
Inmonths of imports                         0.6         1.5        1.7       2.4
Source: IMF
4.2 Outputs by componients:
Structural Reforms
Privatization of state-owned enterprises
This component is rated satisfactory. Many of the procedures and the basic legal framework were laid out
with support of the IBTA Credit-funded consultancies. The Privatization Law was overhauled with
transparent and competitive supporting regulations and procedures to guide the process. The list of
enterprises not subject to privatization (the negative list) was greatly reduced to include mainly strategic
entities. The Governnent opted out of a voucher-based mass privatization program that had been carried
out previously in other Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries. Instead, the Government carried out
privatization on a cash basis, which the Bank supported. Government approval of the Action Plan for the
new Privatization Law was a pre-board condition. The Action Plan spelled out which enterprises were
small, medium and large, and identified which were communally and which central government-owned.
(Small State-Owned Enterprises-SSEs-- in Tajikistan fell into one of two categories:  (1) Local,
communally owned SSEs, or (2) Republican, central government-owned SSEs.)
The Action Plan target, supported by the May 29, 1998 Letter of Development Policy (LDP), of privatizing
all small scale enterprises in the country by first quarter 1999 was ambitious but feasible and desirable,
considering that an expeditious sale was in the interest of preserving the value of the assets. SSE
privatizations were achieved under the SAC program, but with a delay of several months. Initially, local
SSEs were the first to privatize as local government officials sought privatization revenue. Central
government-owned SSEs (comprising 35 percent of all SSEs) met targets, with a few months delay. This
delay was one of several reasons for the postponed release of the second tranche. The IBTA Credit
provided essential support to carry out the many auctions of SSEs. By SAC close, 5,400, or 95 percent of
SSEs had been privatized.
For medium and large scale enterprises (MSEs and LSEs), SAC envisioned that only a good start was
realistic with 120 of them to be privatized and at least 600, to be corporatized into joint stock companies in
- 5 -



addition to 100 such enterprises corporatized into Joint-stock companies prior to May 15, 1998. These
targets were met by SAC close. Corporatization targets were established because they would pave the way
for accelerated privatization of the MSEs and LSEs under subsequent adjustment operations.
The sale of assets, specifically trucks and unfinished construction sites, both of which were originally
second tranche release conditions were completed with delays. The trucks were difficult to dispose of, and
in the end, they were largely written off the books of the state-owned companies and government agencies.
About 7,500 were actually sold. The benefits were that the trucks that could operate became active in the
private sector, and the books of the state-owned companies better represented their asset base. About 150
unfinished construction sites were actually sold. Although in both cases not all the assets were actually
sold, the Government was in compliance with the DCA because it had done everything required to effect
the sale.
One of the remaining tranche conditions was selling the cotton ginneries, which was achieved with delays.
This delay, in addition to the need to sell Pakteh Tajik's (RCPT) assets and to complete a study on
restructuring the Tajik Aluminum Plant (TADAZ), were major reasons why the second tranche of the SAC
was split into a second and a third tranche with these three conditions carrying over into the new third
tranche. These delays led to three extensions of the original closing date, but amounted to only one year in
elapsed time (from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2000). Ultimately, all the cotton ginneries were
sold, but the conditions of carrying out a study on the aluminum plant restructuring and the sale of RCPT
assets were waived. On September 15, 2000, the Government issued Presidential decree No. 357 to
liquidate the RCPT and by December 2000, its assets were sold to local investors. The study on which the
restructuring plan for TADAZ was to be based was extensively delayed due to difficulties with counterpart
funds and security problems. The study is now completed. The study will be reviewed jointly by the
Government, the Association and the IFC. An action plan will then be drawn up whose implementation
could be supported by future Bank operations. Given these measures and because the Government had
accelerated structural reforms, was making progress in implementing the required actions, and the pressing
need for balance of payments support, a waiver was granted for two unmet conditions (see Release of Third
Tranche Waiver of Conditions, October 24, 2000).
Banking System Reforms
This component is rated satisfactory. The IBTA Credit had carried out a number of activities that made it
possible to negotiate key measures for the financial sector (see ICR for the IBTA Credit). Prior to SAC,
credit allocation had been determined by the NBT and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), rather than by the
market forces of a modem banking sector. Thus, the SAC was able to play an important role in setting up
the basic structure for a financial sector that could play its intermediary role in a market economy. The
most important conditions were pre-board presentation and included submission of the Law on Banks and
Banking Activities to the Majles Oli (May 1998), submission of the amended Collateral Law (April 1998),
NBT issuance of prudential regulations (April 1998), a plan for the five largest banks to meet prudential
standards (by November 1998), and agreement on measures to upgrade NBT's supervision Department
(May 1998). A key ingredient in the successful implementation of the banking sector reforms was the
strong reform-mindedness of the Chairman and the first deputy Chairman of the NBT. Also important was
the IMF Letter of Intent (LOI), whose program on banking complemented the Bank's supported program.
- 6 -



Social Safety Net and Social Sector Reforms
This component is rated satisfactory. With the severe pressures on the Government budget, there was
justified concern that the Government would be unable to meet payments to preserve the social safety net.
The SAC funds, in fact, were viewed as necessary to meet the shortfalls in social transfers. The conditions
were to clear all arrears towards the social safety net and salaries in the state budget, to incur no new
arrears in the 1998 budget, allocate amounts to health and education in the 1999 budget at levels acceptable
to IDA, and complete a plan to restructure the social protection system and submit draft legislation to the
Majles Oli. All were accomplished with the latter submitted in February 2000. Although the tranche
release conditions in this sector were not particularly demanding in a structural sense, they were very
important in mitigating negative affects on the poor. However, arrears on salary and social safety net have
reoccurred after implementation of SAC 1.
Summary. The objectives of the SAC were met, and with two qualified exceptions, all conditions were
satisfied. A reasonably stable macro-economy was maintained with significant economic growth. In
structural reforms, the IBTA Credit was the key to success of the SAC. The IBTA Credit not only
supported design and preparation of the policy areas for the privatization and financial sector components,
but also proved essential to implementation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Instituitional development impact:
The main SAC's impact on institutional development was achieved through the overhaul of the legal
framework required for privatization, and through the setting up of the basic banking sector's structure and
regulatory and supervisory functions. The legal framework enhanced the transparency and competitiveness
of commercial and financial operations. Although the first steps have been taken in the financial sector,
additional measures for restructuring and recapitalization would be needed before the financial sector can
be a fully viable intermediary.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Because the Government of Tajikistan (GOT) was often late in meeting targets, implementation progress
was routinely rated unsatisfactory by most supervision missions (five out of eight supervision missions).
However, the SAC was rated satisfactory for project development objectives by all supervision missions
throughout the project life (Annex 8). Delays in tranche release were due to a variety of factors the most
important of which were: delays in privatizing the cotton ginneries, not completing a plan for restructuring
and privatizing the Tajik Aluminum Plant, slow sale of MSEs and LSEs, especially in terms of fully paid
transactions, and at times, slow SSE privatization. Restructuring the credit into a second and third tranche
allowed SAC to continue to support reform progress. In the end, all but the preparation of a plan for
restructuring and privatization of the Tajik aluminum plant were fully carried out.
- 7 -



Factors Outside Government or Implementing Agency control
Although the civil war had officially ended, Tajikistan was faced with regional rivalry to its central
government, specifically by some individuals who sought to see personal interests met before those of the
country. The privatization of cotton ginneries and other enterprises was slowed in a few cases as potential
buyers were discouraged because they did not want to face potential extortion by these individuals or their
forces once they had taken ownership. The central government was also concerned that if privatization
took place under such unstable conditions, it might not realize the full revenue potential of sale of
enterprises. This is one reason why central government-owned SSEs were slower to come to auction than
locally-owned SSEs.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On the positive side, the banking sector component benefited greatly from the strong commitment to reform
by the Chairman and the first deputy Chairman of the NBT. With their support, SAC was able to include
plans for the major banks to meet prudential standards, a condition that prior to SAC, given the many
personal interests at stake, was considered very ambitious. On the negative side, in the privatization of the
cotton ginneries and other enterprises, the GOT met with resistance. Interests at Glavkoprohm (later to
become RCPT) were strong to stave off privatization, which was effectively done for 12 months after the
target date stipulated in the LDP.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As the privatization program penetrated the MSEs and LSEs, some of the line Ministries, seeing a threat to
their power, became resistant to privatization efforts.  With privatization, their power to appoint
management, control business activities and the flow of cash would be lost. Resistance included the lack of
openness by line ministry staff to provide information. Although this resistance caused delays, the damage
was not permanent because the tranche conditions relating to privatizing MSEs and LSEs were all met.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original credit amount was US$50 million (SDR37. 1 million) with SDR5.0 million added prior to
second tranche release as a supplement to help Tajikistan cope with the effects of the Russian financial
crisis. An additional SF3.0 million was provided by the Government of Switzerland at the time of the
release of the second tranche.  Because of variations in the SDR/US$ exchange rate, the actual
disbursement came to $56.2 million equivalent (SDR42.1 million). All funds were disbursed. The credit
was made on standard IDA terms with a term of 40 years and a 1 0-year grace period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely, because of continued, albeit fluctuating, Government commitment to
reform, and the ongoing preparation of a second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2).
The main structural project objectives such as privatization, especially of SSEs, were achieved, and by
nature are difficult to reverse. Likewise, the banking law and new configuration of large banks is not likely
to be undone. Therefore, the major structural achievements of SAC are likely to be sustained. There have
been some threats to sustainability on the macro-stabilization side. With continued budget problems, there
is greater pressure for loose monetary policy, so even though structural reforms are likely to be sustained,
- 8 -



macro-stabilization could be jeopardized. The surge in inflation in 1999 demonstrates this point. In the
short-run, to counter this threat to sustainability, the SAC2 would provide liquidity and support for
privatization and banking system reforms. On the sustainability of the achievements of the social safety net
component, Bank management decided not to overload SAC 1 with conditions that might be very difficult to
implement, but to leave further reform measures to be carried out under the next adjustment operation.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
SAC2, if implemented, will broaden and deepen the reform program and will increase the likelihood of
sustainability of reforms initiated under SAC. Progress will continue with privatizing the MSEs and LSEs
and in the financial sector with further restructuring, experience will be gained with credit allocation
through market mechanisms. The IBTA2 Credit has also buttressed sustainability in the areas of further
private sector development and privatization of MSEs and LSEs emphasizing those enterprises with the
highest growth prospects. Other areas supported by the IBTA2 credit include strengthening the budget
management system, providing an improved enviromnent for proper use of funds under SAC2 and future
quick-disbursing Bank operations. A strengthened budget system is responsive to concerns of the QAG
panel at entry of the SAC.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the task manager level, the Bank demonstrated insight, country knowledge, diplomacy, and perseverance
in pursuing an opportunity to support reform. The Bank helped establish a serious and comprehensive
program in a very challenging environment. There were discussions in the Bank regarding the degree of
"front-loading" the SAC. It was concluded that additional loading of the reform program would have
delayed implementation, and therefore disbursement of urgently needed balance of payments support. The
design of the SAC was comprehensive, but was consistent with the Government's reform program that was
designed following the 1997 peace agreement. All conditions of SAC originally agreed by the Government
and the task team, with the exception of the privatization of the cotton ginneries, were implemented by the
expected release date of the second tranche. As pointed out, the cotton ginneries were eventually
privatized.
The privatization component was a difficult component, but with significant potential impact. Although the
financial sector component was added well into the preparation process, a component with significant
accomplishments was negotiated. Despite the fact that the constraints proved real and delays resulted,
SAC supported a significant and serious program of reform and Bank performance was satisfactory.
7.2 Sutpervision:
The SAC was a difficult operation to supervise because of the many forces competing with reform progress
(see Section 5 above). The Bank had to be persistent in adhering to second tranche conditions in order to
sustain progress. There was continued progress, but certain conditions were particularly delayed. The
Bank showed flexibility in converting the second tranche into a second and third tranche. This move
allowed the Bank to transfer much needed budget support to GOT, while preserving the efforts to fulfill
remaining conditions. The Bank was particularly determined with respect to the privatization of cotton
ginneries. Because of their importance to the economy, the cotton ginneries' privatization was a significant
milestone in the process of private sector development.
-9-



The cotton ginneries were important to some government officials to keep under their control. Some of
these officials also seemed to have a difficult time accepting the concept of ownership of the ginneries by
another party, and there were numerous efforts to undermine their privatization. The Bank advised English
auction of the ginneries, but the Govermment opted for a tendering process. The Bank did not oppose this
method provided that the ginneries' reserve prices were fair. However, the SPC imposed a grossly
excessive reserve price for the ginneries, dooming the tendering process to failure. The Bank held the
position that the ginneries be privatized prior to second, and, later, third tranche release.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank did well to perceive and support a real opportunity
for reform in a difficult environment. Supervision demonstrated sustained and constructive dialog. The
Bank had acquired essential country knowledge during the IBTA Credit experience and the TORs for IBTA
Credit assignments were directly related to reform program components of SAC. The result was a
challenging, but meaningful and implementable reformn program.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The GOT and lAs had a high degree of ownership of project design. The Government and IAs benefited
from experiences with the previously financed operations including the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
(PCRC) and the Agriculture Recovery and Social Protection Credit (ARSP) and, most importantly, from
the IBTA Credit.
7.5 Governnment implementation perjbrniance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. There were delays in meeting commitments,
but the Government also had to overcome competing interests, entrenched attitudes, and political instability
to carry out reforms. Many in the Government wanted rapid privatization, which would help avoid erosion
of asset value. Some in 'he Government had a mindset where its first instinct was to focus only on the
possible benefits of delaying action and not consider the costs. Bank staff also noticed that some in the
Government became more complacent toward reform, wanting to put off reforms until more propitious
circumstances prevailed. After some struggle with this dilemma, the economic argument, the need for
budget support, and the deternination by the reform minded group in the Government persuaded the
Government as a whole to follow through with an expeditious privatization of SSEs.
The experience of ARSP and the Post-conflict Rehabilitation Credit might have contributed to a false
impression that the Bank did not emphasize compliance with tranche release conditions. It took some time
for GOT to fully appreciate the difference in the importance of conditionality between a Rehabilitation
Credit and an Adjustment Credit. This impression might have caused some of the delay in meeting
conditions.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The three main IAs were the SPC, the NBT, and the MOF. The SPC performance was satisfactory, but
required persuasion and tight supervision. The NBT top official was highly committed to the reform
program, which led to much smoother implementation of the financial sector program. Both agencies did a
very good job of utilizing IBTA Credit resources to prepare and implement the SAC. The MOF
performance was also satisfactory.
-1 0 -



7.7 Overall Borroiwer perforrnance:
Taken as a whole, Government and lAs, Borrower performance was satisfactory as both played key roles
in a successful SAC.
8. Lessons Learned
A Technical Assistance Credit plays an essential role in the success of a subsequent SAC to the extent
that it is tailored to the needed reforms and is flexible to needs as they arise.
The IBTA Credit was a prerequisite for both the privatization and financial sector components. Legal
refonns and financial diagnostics were carried out without which it would have been impossible to establish
relevant action plans. IBTA Credit TORs were drafted to meet the specific needs of each tranche
condition. The IBTA Credit was also essential to the Bank to deepen its country knowledge to supplement
limited economic and sector work.
It can be critical for a lending institution to be very literal and precise about what is understood by
privatization.
Under the reforrn program supported by SAC, privatization meant a completed transaction where the
enterprise was fully paid for and the money received by the Government. The definition of privatization
was specified in the DCA in a precise manner so that tranche conditions would not be circumvented with
mere paper transactions.
Although there is a dilemma as to whether to be gradual or comprehensive at the outset in pursuing
privatization during less than optimal conditions, it may be better to err on the side of
comprehensiveness.
In the case of Tajikistan, some officials wanted to postpone reaching privatization targets because
conditions in which to sell the enterprises, and therefore prices, would improve. On the other hand, the
quality of enterprise assets was likely to decline until they were in private hands. Combined with the
possibility that the reform spirit could subside, the Bank and the Government decided to pursue meaningful
privatization targets, a strategy which proved successful.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inplemienting agency:
- 11 -



Republic of Tajikistan
First Structural Adjustment Credit
Submitted as an Attachment to the Final Implementation Completion Report
The Credit Agreement in amount of US$50 million between the World Bank and the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan for the Structural Adjustment Credit was signed in May 1998. The first tranche
amounting US$20 million was released to the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan after the credit
effectiveness on August 21, 1998. The second tranche amounting US$22.9 million was released in August
1999 after fulfilling a number of conditions. The third tranche equivalent to USD13.2 million, which
included USD 8.7 million due to the Russian crisis, was provided in November 15, 2000.
Considerable progress has been made under SACI in the area of structural reforms, banking sector
restructuring, private sector development through the privatization of state-owned enterprises.
The commitments under small scale privatization as well as medium and large-scale enterprises, transport,
unfinished construction have been successfully fulfilled.
In order to fulfill the obligations of the Republic of Tajikistan under the SACI during April 1999-March
2000 the shares of all cotton ginneries have been sold at an international tenders, including the Dutch
auctions.
More than 2200 small-scale enterprises have been privatized during implementation period of SAC1 as
well as more than 700 enterprises have been corporatized, 30 thousand motor transport means have been
privatized (written off). More than 350 unfinished construction sites have been sold at Dutch auctions,
including 61 objects that have been written off after they have not been sold at auctions.
In agriculture, the process of farm restructuring has been accelerated. More than 110 farms have been
restructured to a non-governnent farms by the end of 1999.
The Government has developed the regulatory and legal framework for private sector and banking sector
development. The SAC reforms in the area of private sector development will be extended through SAC2,
enabling the privatization process in Tajikistan to gain strength and further development of the private
sector. In spite of difficulties, the implementation of the project has been successful.
A number of measures have been taken under the SAC in the area financial sector and banking reform. In
particular, on May 23, 1998 a New Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Banks and Banking Activities"
has been enacted, amendments were made to the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Collateral", the
Regulation "On the Taxable Basis for Estimation of the Payment of Banks and Other Credit Institutions"
was enacted by Decree #120 of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on April 17, 1998 and the
Decree # 340 of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on August 4, 1999 "On the Establishment of
the Share of Foreign Capital in the Banking Sector of the Republic of Tajikistan" was enacted and etc.
On May 5, 1998, NBT prepared and submitted to the Bank the strategic plan for the Bank Supervision
Department (BSD). The plan provided certain measures for improving the bank supervision system.
According to the plan, the BSD took measures, including increasing the number of highly qualified
employees, training of the BSD employees on accounting and introducing new prudential standards.
It should be noted that due to the implementation of the SAC financial sector reform components and close
- 12 -



cooperation with the World Bank and IMF experts, considerable progress has been made in the banking
supervision to adopt the international bank supervision standards and those of Basel Committee on Bank
Supervision. This contributed to the improvement of the quality of bank supervision and to gradual
development of the banking sector to the international standard.
At the same time, there were some shortcomings during the implementation of the Program. In particular,
during the sale of the cotton ginneries and despite the fact that the Government followed all requirements of
the World Bank, the shares of some ginneries have not been sold during the auctions because of absence of
the buyers. Unfortunately, there were no actions foreseen for such a situation during the Negotiations and
the World Bank did not consider this target as fulfilled for a long time.
Also, some difficulties occurred on farm restructuring condition related to the transfer of social objects
belonging to the enterprise as well as the issue of former arrears.
It has to be noted that the International Finance Corporation (IFC) failed to conduct financial analysis of
TADAZ in time and etc.
All the above-mentioned shortcomings related to insufficient developmental work at the stage of project
preparation led to delaying implementation of the SAC.
Thus, taking into account the above-mentioned, we consider it expedient and necessary to focus during
preparation of the SAC2 on qualitative indicators rather then quantitative. The focus should be on the
development of the real economy. Structural adjustments should be implemented not for the sake of the
adjustments themselves but to ensure increase of productivity, effective production, improvement of the
living standards and poverty alleviation.
During preparation of the second SAC, real conditions and country specifics at large should be taken into
account.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
-13-



Key Performance Indicators Matrix
Measures taken Prior to Board    Original Second Tranche      Actual Second Tranche       Actual Third Tranche
Presentation                   Conditions                  Conditions                  Conditions
(of the Restructured SAC)     (of the Restructured
1,2                      SAC) 1,2
PRIVATIZATION OF
STATE-OWNED
ENTERPRISES
On April 22, 1998, the
Government prepared
amendments to the laws on Joint
Stock Companies, Bankruptcy,
Securities and Stock Exchange
and submitted them to the Majles
Oli.
The Government approved the
Privatization Action Plan for
1998, on March 6, 1998.
As of May 15, 1998, the         The Government will         As of June 7, 1999, there    Privatize at least 200
Government privatized through   complete privatization of   have been 1,500 small-scale    small-scale enterprises
auction 540 additional small-   state-owned small scale     enterprises, in addition to  beginning June 1, 1999.
scale enterprises.              enterprises by privatizing  500 such enterprises
not less than 1500 in      privatized prior to May 15,
addition to 500 such       1998, reported as fully paid
enterprises privatized prior    by the Government.
to May 15, 1998.
- 14 -



Measures taken Prior to      Original Second Tranche      Actual Second Tranche       Actual Third Tranche
Board Presentation                Conditions                  Conditions                 Conditions
(of the Restructured SAC)     (of the Restructured
1,2                     SAC) 1,2
As of May 15, 1998, the         The Government will         As of June 7, 1999, the      Complete the process of
Government corporatized and     complete the process of     Government has incorporated   incorporation of not less
registered more than 100        corporatization of not less  450 large-scale enterprises.    than 700 large-scale
additional large enterprises.   than 600 state-owned                                     enterprises into joint-stock
large-scale enterprises into                            companies.
joint-stock companies in
addition to 100 such
enterprises corporatized into
joint-stock companies prior
to May 15, 1998.
The Government established a
centralized share registry in the
Ministry of Finance on April 27,
1998.
The Government will        As of June 7, 1999, the      Complete privatization of
complete privatization of  Government privatized 55     not less than 120 medium
not less than 120          medium and large-scale       and large enterprises.
state-owned large-scale    enterprises.                 (Privatization is defined as
enterprises.                                            the sale of more than 75
percent of an enterprise's
shares or sale of assets
through enterprise
liquidation. Sale of an
enterprise is deemed to
have taken place only
Govemment will complete    As of June 7, 1999, sale     upon the Government's
privatization of all       agreements were signed for    receipt of full payment for
state-owned cotton         six cotton ginneries, but full    shares and assets.)
ginneries.                 payments were not received.
Complete privatization of
all state-owned cotton
ginneries.
Presidential Decree No.184 was  The Government will sell    As of June 7, 1999, the      Complete the sale of the
issued on May 14, 1998, to allow    350 unfinished state-owned    Government sold 135 and  remaining 81 unfinished
sale of 350 unfinished          construction sites.         wrote off 134 state-owned    construction sites.
construction sites through                                  unfinished construction sites.
auctions.
The Government will sell or   As of June 7, 7,500
scrap 30,000 state-owned   state-owned trucks were sold
.trucks.                   and the Government has
issued a decree to write off
all remaining vehicles over
10 years old.
- 15-



Measures taken Prior to Board    Original Second Tranche   Actual Second Tranche      Actual Third Tranche
Presentation                 Condidons                  Conditions                Conditions
(of the Restructured SAC)    (of the Restructured
1,2                    SAC) 1,2
The Government will       The RCPT has been          Sell RCPT's assets, which
liquidate the Republican  liquidated and supervision  include a design
Corporation of Pakhteh   and production of cotton    construction enterprise,
Tajik (RCPT), sell all its  grading functions transferred    Dushanbe and Shartos
assets and transfer the  to the Ministry of          warehouses, and a
supervision of seed      Agriculture.                company called Signal,
production and cotton                                which supplies parts and
grading functions to the                             renders services.
Ministry of Agriculture.                             (WAIVED)
On September 15, 2000,
the GOT issued
Presidential decree No.
357 to liquidate RCPT.
The sale of this company's
assets was completed in
December 2000.
The Govemment agreed with the    The Government will     Prepare a plan for the      Prepare a plan for the
Terms of Reference for a study on    prepare a plan to privatize    restructuring and  restructuring and
privatization plan of the Tajik  TADAZ and take          privatization of TADAZ on   privatization of TADAZ,
Aluminum Plant (TADAZ).        measures, satisfactory to  terms of reference agreed  on terms of reference
IDA, to implement it.     with the Association and take   agreed with the
measures agreed with the   Association, and take
Association to initiate    measures, agreed with the
implementation of such a   Association, to initiate
plan.                      implementation of such a
plan. (WAIVED)
The study on which the
plan was to be based was
extensively delayed due to
difficulties with
counterpart funds and
security problems. The
study is now completed.
The study will be
reviewed jointly by the
Govemment, the
Association and the IFC.
An action plan will then
be drawn up whose
implementation could be
supported by future Bank
operations.
- 16 -



Measures taken Prior to Board    Original Second Tranche     Actual Second Tranche       Actual Third Tranche
Presentation                   Conditions                 Conditions                  Conditions
(of the Restructured SAC)     (of the Restructured
1,2                     SAC) 1,2
PROMOTION OF AN
EFFICIENT FINANCIAL
SECTOR
The Government submitted the
Law on Banks and Banking
Activities to the Majles Oli on
May 2,1998.
The Government submitted the
amendment on collateral Law to
the Majles Oli on April 20, 1998.
The National Bank of Tajikistan  NBT will implement a       A revised set of prudential  State Savings Bank,
(NBT) issued a revised set of   revised set of prudential  regulations satisfactory to the   Agroinvestbank, and
prudential regulations on April 21,  regulations and a plan to  Association has been put into   Vnesheconombank, will
1998. NBT agreed on a set of    upgrade NBT's Banking      effect. The implementation   comply with the prudential
measures to upgrade NBT's        Supervision Department.    of a plan for upgrading of the   regulations.
Banking Supervision Department                              NBT Banking Supervision
on May 15, 1998.                                            Department (BSD) was
completed.
NBT instructed all banks to adopt
IAS accounting systems, beginning
in 1998 financial year. The 1998
accounts of the five large banks
will be subject to IAS audits and
all banks will be required to
submit IAS audited financial
statements, starting in 1999.
NBT agreed on time-bound         NBT will implement a plan   The implementation of a plan
measures to upgrade the payments  to upgrade the payments  for upgrading of the
system.                          system.                    payments system in
Tajikistan was completed.
NBT has reviewed the financial   The five largest banks will                             Complete the financial
condition of the five largest banks    meet the provisions of the                        audits of state Savings
to determine their compliance with  restructuring plans agreed                           Bank, Agroinvestbank,
a revised set of prudential ratios  with NBT.                                            and Vnesheconombank,
and has entered into individual                                                          and submit them to the
agreements with the five banks on                                                        Association.
a plan to enable them to meet the
prudential standards by November
30, 1998.
- 17 -



Measures taken Prior to Board     Original Second Tranche        Actual Second Tranche         Actual Third Tranche
Presentation                     Conditions                   Conditions                    Conditions
(of the Restructured SAC)       (of the Restructured
1,2                       SAC) 1,2
PROTECTING THE SOCIAL
SAFETY NET AND SOCIAL
SECTOR
All arrears towards the     The Government will realize    Prepare a plan in
social safety net and       its commitment to make         consultation with the
salaries in the state budget   timely payment of salaries,  Association to restructure
will be cleared by the      pension and compensation       the social protection
Govemment.                  payments and to have no        system.
outstanding arrears in the
1998 state budget for these
payments, and will clear
arrears in compensation
payments, pension and
salaries in the 1998 budget.
The Government will: (i)
ensure timely payment for    The 1999 budget approved by
salaries, pensions and      the parliament in November
social safety net; (ii) ensure   1998, will allocate 22 percent
that there are no           of the total government
outstanding arrears in the  expenditures to health and
1998 state budget for these    education expenditures.
payments; (iii) finalize the
composition of social sector
expenditures and the
allocations to health and
education in the 1999 state
budget in a manner
satisfactory to the IDA; and
(iv) complete a plan to
restructure the social
protection system,
including submitting draft
legislation revising social
protection system to the
Majles Oli.
Sources: Memorandum of the President, June 25, 1998, Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement July 7, 1999, Release of Third Tranche
Waiver of Conditions, October 27, 2000
\1 From Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement July 7, 1999.
\2 Conditions were met unless otherwise noted. Both waived conditions were partially completed at time of third tranche release.
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorslLog Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Prepared the legal framework for privatization Satisfactory by March 6, 1998  Satisfactory by March 6, 1998
and private sector development
Increased the role of privatized small  Satisfactory by June 7, 1999       Satisfactory by June 7,1999
enterprise in the economy
Corporatized the medium and large -scale   Satisfactory by August 31, 2000  Satisfactory by August 31, 2000
enterprises
Increased the role of the privatized cotton    Satisfactory by October 27, 2000  Satisfactory by October 27, 2000
ginneries in the economy
Increased the role of pnvatized medium and  Satisfactory by August 31, 2000  Satisfactory by August 31, 2000
large enterprises in the economy
Took measures to develop the financial  Satisfactory by April 30, 1999     Satisfactory by April 30, 1999
sector consistent with a private sector
economy by upgrading the National Bank of
Tajikistan's Banking Supervision
Department, revising prudential regulations,
completing the financial audits of state
Savings Bank, Agroinvestbank, and
Vnesheconombank, and all banks adopting
IAS accounting systems beginning in 1998
financial year
Improved the Social Compensation System   Satisfactory by February 2000    Satisfactory by February 2000
by making timely payment of the
compensation payments and having no
outstanding arrears in the 1998 state budget
for these payments, dearing arrears in
compensation payments in the 1999 budget
and preparing a plan in consultation with the
Association to restructure the social
protecton system
Sources: Memorandum ofthe President, June25, 1998, Amendmenttothe DevelopmentCreditAgreementJuly 7,1999,Release of ThirdTranche
Waiver of Conditions, October 27, 2000.
Output Indicators:
Prepare amendments to the laws on Joint   Completed on April 22, 1998      Completed on April 22, 1998
Stock Companies, Bankruptcy, Securities
and Stock Exchange and submit them to the
Majiles Oli
Privatize 1,500 small-scale enterprises, in   Completed on June 7,1999     Completed on June 7, 1999
addition to 500 such enterprises privatized
prior to May 15, 1998, reported as fully paid
by the Govemment
Complete the process of incorporation of not Completed on August 31, 2000  Completed on August 31, 2000
less than 700 large-scale enterprises into
joint-stock companies
- 19-



Complete privatization of not less than 120   Completed on August 31 2000  Completed on August 31, 2000
medium and large enterprises (Privatzation
is defined as the sale of more than 75
percent of an enterprise's shares or sale of
assets through enterprise liquidation. Sale of
an enterprise is deemed to have taken place
only upon the Govemments receipt of full
payment for shares and assets.)
Complete privatization of all state-owned  Completed on October 27, 2000   Completed on October 27, 2000
cotton ginneries
Sell 350 unfinished construction sites  Completed in December 1999         Completed in December 1999
through auctions
Sell or scrap 30,000 state-owned -trucks    As of June 7, 7,500 state-owned trucks were As of June 7, 7,500 state-owned trucks were
sold and the Govemment has issued a  sold and the Govemment has issued a
decree to write off all remaining vehicles over decree to write off all remaining vehicles over
IO years old                         10 years old
Liquidate the Republican Corporation of  On September 15, 2000, the GOT issued    Completed on December 30, 2000
Pakhteh Tajik (RC PT), sell all its assets and Presidential decree No. 357 to liquidate the
transfer the supervision of seed production   company. Completion of the sale of this
and cotton grading functions to the Ministry  company's assets took place on December
of Agriculture                       30, 2000
Prepare a plan for the restructuring and  Not completed                    The study on which the plan was to be based
privatizabion of TADAZ on terms of reference                               was extensively delayed due to dificulties
agreed with the Association and take                                       with counterpart funds and security
measures agreed with the Association to                                    problems. The study is now completed. The
inibate implementation of such a plan.                                     study will be reviewed jointly by the
Govemment, the Association and the IFC.
An action plan will then be drawn up whose
implementation could be supported by future
Bank operations
The National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) to    Completed on April 21, 1998     Completed on April 21, 1998
issue revised set of prudential regulations
Complete the financial audits of state  Completed on April 30, 1999        Completed on April 30, 1999
Savings Bank, Agroinvestbank, and
Vnesheconombank, and submit them to the
Association
The 1998 accounts of the five large banks to The NBT made individual agreements with  The NBT made individual agreements with
be subject to IAS audits and all banks will be the five banks on a plan to enable them to   the five banks on a plan to enable them to
required to submit IAS audited financial  meet the prudential standards by November meet the prudential standards by November
statements                           30,1998                               30,1998
All arrears towards the social safety net and  Fulfilled in 1998 budget     Fulfilled in the 1998 budget
salaries in the state budget will be cleared by
the Govemment
The Govemment will realize its commitment The 1999 budget approved by the parliament Fulfilled in the 1999 budget
to make timely payment of salaries, pension  in November 1998, allocated 22 percent of
and compensation payments and to have no  the total govemment expenditures to health
outstanding arrears in the 1998 state budget and education expenditures.
for these payments, and will clear arrears in
compensation payments, pension and
salaries in the 1998 budget
Sources: Memorandum of the President, June 25, 1998, Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement July 7, 1999, Release of Third Tranche
Waiver of Conditions, October 27, 2000.
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
R4                   ~~~~~~~Appra~isal   AchwaIL*Azt.t
~osti.nt                   us% ma*ot    u~n          _    ___
BOP/Budget Support                                50.00          56.20            122
Total Baseline Cost                                50.00          56.20
Total Project Costs            50.00          56.20
Total Financing Required            50.00          56.20
/a includes a supplemental credit for SDR 5.0 million.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A praisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        50.00         0.00        50.00
BOP/Budget Support         (0.00)       (0.00)       (50.00)       (0.00)      (50.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         50.00        0.00        50.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (50.00)       (0.00)      (50.00)
SDR37.1 million
roject Costs by Procurem   Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival t)
~~~~~. ~ ~     0
~ ..:'.a  '.';  9                                                   QJL
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         56.20        0.00        56.20
BOPlBudget Support          (0.00)      (0.00)       (56.20)      (0.00)      (56.20)
-21 -



5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           56.20           0.00          56.20
______________________  (0.00)         (0.00)         (56.20)        (0.00)         (56.20)
SDR42. 1 million, including SDR5.0 million supplemental credit
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
I/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  by Corn onent in US$ million e uivalent
BO.P/Budget Support       50.00                            56.20                 1.97     112.4
total                     50.00                            56.00                 1.97     1 12.0
SDR42.I million, including SDR5.0 million supplemental credit and SF3.0 million co-financed by the
Government of Switzerland.
-22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Ste of Poject Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specilty              Perornceating          :
(e.g. 2          EfWgEconmS, etc.)    p     t       Development
Mont;h/e ar Count            Specialty                        o
Identification/Preparation
January 1998               4   TM, PSD, F, L                       S               S
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1998                   4   TM, PSD, F, L                       S               S
Supervision
November 1998               3   TM, PSD, F                         S               S
December 1998               3   TM, PSD, F                         S               S
April 1999                  3   TM, PSD, F                         U               S
December 1999               3   TM, PSD, F                         U               S
May 2000                    3   TM, PSD, F                         U               S
June 2000                   3   TM, PSD, F                         U               S
October 2000                3   TM, PSD, F                         U               S
ICR
January 2001               2    TM, E                              S               S
TM-Task Manager, PSD, Private Sector Development, F-Financial, L-Legal, E-Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage;0 of;; Projec Cycle             Acsa/ats Estimate00.::;0000    i00000000T0i0
Identification/Preparation              45.5                       168.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   15.4                        51.0
Supervision                             68.0                       240.6
ICR                                      4.0                        10.0
Total                                  132.9                       469.6
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FI Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Financial                             OH *SUOM ON ONA
LI Institutional Development             O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
FI Environmental                         OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LII Private sector development           0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
l Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 25-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
L Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
LII Overall                                         OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS  O u  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HfS OS  0 U  0 HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
(1) Report and Reconmmendation of the President of the IDA on a Proposed SAC, June 25, 1998.
(2) Development Credit Agreement, July 31, 1998.
(3) Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement, July 7, 1999.
(4) Release of the Third Tranche Waiver of Conditions, October 24, 2000.
(5) Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File).
- 27 -






MAP SECTION






NSTAN  /ia                                                              -M           J
T. T-hk.w                                   T. T-hk-t                                              TAJIKISTAN
\    ffi ,.>    To rcshe5ie\                                En '  Tol shkenn t
_    o\ t ! +         AS-T
/       k     -      "  F9c  ^- -                  - f UZBEKISTAN  *    Selected Cities                       Roads
Z' KHUJAFDB                                   AN                  0    Autonomous Oblast Centers               =           Railroads
ZAFAROB             od'    ~       -             ONIEODOM                          0E    Oblast Center                            - -----Rural Districts
O~~~~J                           K~~~~  b    National Capital                                                                      Autonomous Oblast Boundaries
To Dzhiz-  _   e=-                                                                                                                                  -  - '    Oblast Boundariesn
\\CA,f,l \ S C2 PROiETAR  2 F      t                                                                         ---   International Boundaries
TA N                                                                                 3?                       Area with no oblost-level administrative divisions, where rayorii ore urder direct republic jurisdiction
UZBEKISHAHRISTON                              t,s- e                                                                      An oblast is named only when its name differs from that of its administrtive center.
ero<6~.. -           J) 1                                                        KYRGYZ            REP.       72                          To_ o                                           A.
P. Pn;d' h-'ii                     Ayni
E *   8   / _    ,----~~~~+  w- ~    ~ ~           %          g\_#/~~io               _*_   ~~~~'5~~   T                ;                      C  H  I N  A
2    ^       1        Q       ~~~~~~~~~~AlNi   _                      GHARM_                                        
-39            ,     /             ,     n   _  ry                  ;)  J                                           JIRGITAL         3                    Ozera   S) z                                                  39-
SHA-tRi LI     VA i   D   __      7             bR    I   KOFAcI. DAR                                                           Karakul'6                            F uSh.c
;          ;                                   <               z       l~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~                            ~         ~~~~~~~AVI[DARA   \AV A    
TJP5,!,NZA.r)F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    KZKHSA
X                                                                            <                        /   t BADA <saN <                                               iio, 1   |~~~0VA LhN 
VANIH~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~    ZBKSA
Mo  eig Unt ot Tire Wor/d                                        K**.***H                                                                                                      -/
*%>~~_            _    _  _  _To    _ K o d u : r      _ \   _                                                                                                                                       w Jf. 
nAtFrGnHiAnNoInS T ArN co. .                                                                                          - -      ur-a       -
deoinotionslyondny otheprtt                                   I                                                                  PA(  '  TURKMENISTAN         .                        '5                      *--lASHA N
c   h Worl nt ip,oni Groupny f0                                 50                      100 MILES                                   PAKISTAN                                               \OoDsh onnbe T    -..
Z  judgment onf the legol stotus ot                                                                                 *                                                           <, "  n no a  A
rn  any territory, or ony endorseonnt                                                                          *-                                                 ISAI  E                                     -, CIA{
cc|or cerneo uhbudre.6                                                                                                                                              OF IRAN          1.AFGHANISTAN   .<'              CHN       0



