Report No. PID6108
Project Name                     Tajikistan - Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Industrial Adjustment
Project ID                       TJPE47438
Borrower                         Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              Office of the Prime Minister
Date this PID prepared           March 13, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 25, 1998
1.      Background.   Since the signing of the peace agreement, the Government has
initiated movement toward reestablishing financial discipline in the economy
and has removed some of the controls imposed on the economy. It has adopted
several policies, including: reactivating the foreign exchange auction,
establishing a credit auction, introducing a uniform and low tariff rate of 5
percent and eliminating export taxes. The Government has also made
satisfactory progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic environment through
tightening fiscal and monetary policies in the second half of 1997. As a
result, the rate of inflation declined rapidly from 20 percent in July to 2.3
percent in December 1997. The budget deficit for the year as a whole was less
than 3.5 percent of GDP with the exchange rate premium declining from 19
percent to less than 3 percent during the same period. The noticeable
progress achieved since July 1997 led to approval of the IMF Emergency Post-
Conflict Assistance and the World Bank Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit in
December 1997.
2.      With improvement in the security situation, the Government started to
address the structural reform measures and initiated movement toward
establishing the necessary foundation for an accelerated privatization
program. The State Property Committee (SPC) prepared and the Government
approved most of the regulations necessary to implement the new Privatization
Law. It also attempted addressing the weaknesses in the current law on
banking by drafting a new banking law which provides a better definition of
what a bank is and what its activities should be.
3.      Project Scope and Objectives.   The principal objectives of Tajikistan's
reform program, supported by the proposed Credit, are: (i) restoring
macroeconomic stability; (ii) implementing a transparent privatization
program; (iii) undertaking financial sector reform to establish a conducive
environment for private sector development and restructuring the banking
system; and (iv) lessening the adverse impact of adjustment on the poor by
enhancing budget provisions for health, education and social safety net. The
proposed credit will be the World Bank's sixth credit to Tajikistan. As a
quick disbursing operation, it will support the country's balance-of-payments
and budgetary requirement.
4.      The proposed SAC builds on policy achievements under the World Bank's
Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection (ARSP) Credit, and is supported by
technical assistance provided under the Institution Building Technical



Assistance (IBTA) Credit. It will benefit from the impact of the Pilot
Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP), the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
(PCRC), and the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Credit (PCERC), which
aim to minimize the transitional social cost of reform and facilitate efforts
to move away from a wartime economy. Although not part of the proposed
credit, policy changes at the macro level (fiscal, monetary and exchange
rate), are required to provide an environment conducive to private sector
development. IMF support to assist the Government in formulating a
comprehensive stabilization program under an ESAF arrangement will be crucial
for achieving macroeconomic stability.
5.      Environmental Aspects.   In accordance with the Association's operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
6.      Benefits.  The major benefits of the proposed credit include: (i) greater
efficiency in the economy; (ii) increased availability of critical imports
financed by the credit; (iii) development of a private sector and more
competitive transport, construction and cotton sectors; and (iv) enhancement
of the budgetary provisions for health, education and social safety net.
7.      Risks.  Four potential risks are associated with the proposed credit: (i)
deterioration in the political and security environment may undermine the
Government's support and commitment to the policy reforms and could delay
project implementation; (ii) implementation of policy reforms under the
proposed credit may place heavy demands on the country's limited weak
institutional capacity; (iii) opposition to reforms by some vested interests
may result in policy slippage; and (iv) high level of external debt.
8.      Risks minimizing measures include: (i) The gradual improvement of the
country's political situation with the signing of the peace agreement on June
27, 1997 and the operation of the CNR. Government efforts to foster economic
recovery will facilitate the transitional process toward national
reconciliation and peace. (ii) Policy reforms under the proposed credit will
be implemented with assistance from consulting firms currently engaged under
the IBTA credit. (iii) Various stakeholders, including the managers of
enterprises that are expected to be privatized, will be fully informed about
the privatization program's objectives, the nature of the process and the
opportunities available and will be brought into the design and implementation
of the reform program to the extent possible. (iv) Intensification of the
authorities' efforts to seek rescheduling agreements with Tajikistan's
external creditors and provision of external assistance in the form of
generous debt relief and sustained balance of payments support on concessional
terms, will help to reduce this risk.
Contact Point:                   M.R. Ghasimi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)473-5868
Fax No. (202) 477-1692
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
-2 -



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending     March 20, 1998.
- 3 -



