Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF022451
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 31220-TJ 
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the
Government of the Swiss Confederation
Dated June 21, 1999
TF022451 
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 31220-TJ
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator of 
grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE SWISS CONFEDERATION (Switzerland). 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment 
Credit), dated July 31, 1998, between the Recipient and the Association (the IDA 
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a credit in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,100,000) to support the Recipient in the 
execution of the Program, as defined in the IDA Credit Agreement; and  
(B)
pursuant to an arrangement dated December 22, 1998, as amended, between 
Switzerland and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and 
the Association, Switzerland has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds (the Grant) to be made 
available by Switzerland for the support of the Recipient in the execution of the 
Program, in accordance with the provisions of such arrangement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I; 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (12) and 
(13), 2.02 and 
2.03; 
(iii)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
(iv)
Article V; 
(v)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), and (1) 
6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
(vi)
Section 8.01 (b); 
(vii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08; 
(viii) Article X; and 
(ix)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term “"Association”", whichever used in the General 
Conditions, other than 
in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the 
International Development Association 
acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the arrangement between the 
Minister and the Bank and 
the Association referred to in Recital (B) of this 
Agreement, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term “"Association”" shall also 
include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity; 
(ii)
the term “"Borrower”", whichever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient; 
(iii)
the term “"Development Credit Agreement”", whichever used in the 
General 
Conditions, means this Agreement except that in 
Section 6.02 (a), the term "
"Development Credit Agreement" means the 
IDA Credit Agreement; 
(iv)
the term “"Credit”", whichever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Grant; 
(v)
the term “"Credit Account”", whichever used in the General 
Conditions, means 
the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the 
name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
the term “"Deposit Account”", whichever used in the IDA Credit 
Agreement, 
means the Grant Deposit Account, an account that the 
Recipient shall open, 
prior to furnishing to the Association 
the first request for withdrawal from 
the Grant Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, into which all withdrawals from 
the Grant Account 
shall be deposited by the Association; provided, however, 
that if the 
first request for withdrawals is in Dollars, the Grant Deposit 
Account may be the same as the Deposit Account under the IDA Credit Agreement; 
and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
“"Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, withdrawals from the Grant 
Page  3
Account 
shall be made in the currency of the Grant, i.e. Swiss Francs 
(CHF).”"
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and the terms “"Swiss Francs”" and “"CHF”" mean the currency of Switzerland. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a Grant in an 
amount of three million Swiss Francs (CHF 3,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may not be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account before the release of the second tranche pursuant to the IDA Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Section 2.02 (c) and Article III of the IDA Credit Agreement, 
including the Schedules referred to therein, are hereby incorporated into this 
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they fully set forth herein, it being 
understood that all references in said Section and ArticleArticles to the 
“"Association”" shall be deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator 
of the Grant under this Agreement, all references to the “"Borrower”" shall be deemed 
references to the Recipient, and all references to the “"Credit”" and the “"Credit 
Amount”" and ""Deposit Account”" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant, the 
Grant Account and the Grant Deposit Account, respectively. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties. 
ARTICLE V 
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance 
3, Akademikov Radzabovykh Street
Kuibyshev Street Dushanbe, 734025 
Republic of Tajikistan
For the Administrator: 
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  4
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Rashid Alimov
Mr. Rashid Alimov,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Ishrat Husain
Acting Authorized Representative
