Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3122-1 TJ 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 20, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3122-1 TJ 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit) dated July 31, 1998 (the Development 
Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the 
Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
economy, as described in Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement (the 
Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the “and” at the end of Subsection (i), substituting “; and” for “.” at the 
end of Subsection (j) and adding a new Subsection (k) as follows:
“(k) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated 
July 31, 1998.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-two million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 42,100,000) (the Credit), 
which includes: (a) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to 
thirty-seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 37,100,000) 
(the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000) (the Additional 
Financing).”
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
“; provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Amending Agreement.”
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
 REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Page  3
 By /s/ Rashid Alimov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ishrat Husain
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
