         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association
                                                                   87377
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                          CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                      EDS98-377
                                                                    July 22, 1998


Board Meeting of July 23, 1998
Statement by Juan L. Cariaga

               TAJIKISTAN – Country Assistance Strategy
                   And Structural Adjustment Credit
Introduction
   We would first of all express our appreciation to staff for this
very well prepared CAS describing developments in Tajikistan during
recent years and its current situation, as well as the remaining
challenges ahead. As importantly, we welcome the clear assessment of
the obstacles Tajikistan faces in recovering from civil conflict. This
is extremely valuable in view of the difficult situation described and
allows us to more adequately address the issues raised and the risks
of dealing with a post-conflict situation, as we seek to fulfill our
responsibilities for “reconstruction and development.”
   As noted in the report, the political and social events in
Tajikistan described by the CAS have delayed reform and contributed to
increase the level of poverty. Because of this, the role of the
international community has become crucial in providing humanitarian
assistance to alleviate poverty. The June 1997 peace agreement and
the efforts at national reconciliation now give some hope for the
future.
   We endorse the Bank’s overall strategy, focusing on promoting
growth, maintaining macroeconomic stability and reducing poverty via
interventions targeted mainly on the largest groups of the poor. The
composition of the lending program -- with operations for adjustment,
the agricultural and social sectors, infrastructure development and
technical assistance and institutional strengthening -- and its focus
on poverty reduction is appropriate for this strategy. We also
support the Structural Adjustment Credit being considered along with
this CAS and find it supports overall CAS objectives.
Economic Considerations
   One of the most important and promising developments since
implementation of the peace agreement in mid-1997 has been the
commitment by Tajikistan authorities to deepen reform efforts through
concentration on macroeconomic stability and structural reform. As a
result, substantial improvement has occurred in the last year. While
there are many measures that can contribute to enhancing long term
economic growth and poverty alleviation, macroeconomic stability and
                                       2


    structural reform are clearly among the most important, if not
    necessary conditions.
       Progress since mid-1997 has therefore been very encouraging.
    Inflation dropped to 1.3 percent for the first quarter of 1998 and the
    exchange rate has been stable. The fiscal deficit went from 10 percent
    of GDP in June 1997 to 1.6 percent during the same quarter this year.
    As a result, Tajikistan has been able to return to some growth, albeit
    only a modest two percent, for the first time since independence FSU
    in 1991.
       Although still weak in terms of poverty alleviation, this growth is
    an important achievement that creates both serious challenges and
    cautious optimism for the near future. The Bank and IMF have
    recognized this, the Bank through two post-conflict operations and the
    Fund with a post-conflict facility and more recently a three-year
    ESAF. Risks and challenges however remain serious with both the
    economic recovery and the peace process still weak.
       The Bank’s proposed program supports the government’s strategy of
    pursuing structural reform through an emphasis on private sector
    development, financial sector reform and restructuring of the
    agricultural and social sectors. The emphasis placed on privatization
    in both the industrial and agricultural sectors is important and
    encouraging, as is the progress that is expected to be made by 2001.
    The reform process has to be maintained and accelerated in order to
    create the necessary environment for the attraction of foreign direct
    investments.
       However, we wonder why so-called “strategic” industries (utilities,
    natural monopolies) are seemingly exempt. In the past categorization
    as “strategic” has often served as a classic argument (or perhaps more
    accurately pretext) used to avoid privatization. Can staff clarify
    what reasons might exist for this in Tajikistan?
       Clearly, also, there is much more that can be attempted in the
    creation of an enabling environment for private agricultural
    enterprises. We look forward to considering the projects that are
    being prepared to address farm restructuring and agricultural support
    services. In general, however, we agree with the focus on the
    agricultural and rural sectors.   This is especially true given the
    extent of poverty in the country and the importance of the
    agricultural sector.
       The strategies which IFC and EDI intend to pursue are appropriate.
    However, we understand that assistance from other potential donors and
    agencies has been less than hoped. We would appreciate it if staff
    could comment on any reasons that might explain this and whether the
    government envisages efforts to seek additional support?
    Conclusions

       The risks described are serious and described candidly. Yet the
    Bank apparently has a major role and opportunity to contribute to
    development and poverty alleviation because of the favorable relation
    with the government it has established. This privileged position
    brings with it additional responsibility and the peace agreement
    provides an opportunity to pursue economic reform. Conversely,



.
                                       3


    economic reform and development will contribute to this fragile
    process and it is right that the Bank Group is participating.
       Finally, we would again like to recognize the government’s efforts
    in restoring peace and national reconciliation and wish the government
    and people of Tajikistan success with its expansion and the
    implementation of this essential program assisting those efforts.




.
