6Z :2 3 2 £  - A/,
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 100784Htk
(:/'t;)/N ','(j)  1 ,, .I,2:94g ',  AA'' 1   i,:
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1991
Country Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
their offidcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 30, 1991)
Currency Unit - tugrik (T)
$1.00 - T40
Ti - $0.025
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
Almak       Province/Provincial Government
CES         Central Electricity System
CIF         Cost, Insurance and Freight
C1P         Cost in Place
CMEA        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DAF         Delivered at Frontier
FTC         Foreign Trade Corporation
FTD         Foreign Trade Department (of MTI)
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPMIS       Import Procurement Management Information System
JGF         Japan Grant Facility
MB          Bank of Mongolia (Mongolbank) (the central bank)
MCC         Mongolian Coal Corporation (Mongol Nuurs)
MFE         Ministry of Fuel and Energy
MIAT        Mongolian International Air Transport
MND         Ministry of National Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MPC         Mongolian Petroleum Company
MPR         Mongolian People's Republic
MPRP        Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party
MTI         Ministry of Trade and Industry
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PIP         Public Investment Program
PISC        Petroleum Import and Supply Corporation
SBA         (IMF) Stand-By Agreement
Somon       County/County Government
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USSR        Union of Soviet Socialist Republics



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
ECONOhIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                  Mongolian People's Republic
Amount:                    SDR 22.2 million ($30 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Oblectives:        The project would help Mongolia rehabilitate,
maintain and operate priority sectors of its
economy. This would help check further serious
deterioration in the country's economic
infrastructure and help ensure, indirectly, the
economy's output performance.
Project Description:       The project would finance the import of equipment,
materials, spare parts, vehicles and other essential
inputs critically needed for the key agriculture,
energy (electric power generation, coal mining and
petroleum products) and transport sectors.
Proiect Benefits           The project will increase and maintain capacity
and Risks:               utilization and hence increase production in each
sector during the next 12 to 18 months, and through
economy-wide effects help Mongolia sustain its
overall production and employment level. The main
risk to the project--that procurement problems and
transport bottlenecks seriously delay or prevent
delivery of the critical imports--is mitigated by
the agreed procurem.ent plan and timetable, and by
engagement of specialized procurement support and
logistics services to help MTI implement the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Proiect Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
------ $ Million -
Electric power production       1.00       3.50    4.50
Coal Mining                     1.90       7.40    9.30
Transport                       1.30       5.00    6.30
Agriculture                     1.70       6.50    8.20
Petroleum/lubricants            0.55       2.00    2.55
Total critical imports   6.45        24.40   30.85
Consultant services                        0.30    0.30
Contingencies                   1.50       5.30    6.80
Total ]!                   7.95      30.00   37.95
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-- $ Million -------
Government and
end-users                  7.95        0.0        7.95
IDA                          0.00       30.0       30.00
Total                   7.95      30.0       37.95
Estimated Disbursements:
FY92                 FY93
----- $ Million --
Annual                        15.0                  15.0
Cumulative                    15.0                  30.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD 23405
/a Assumes levying of customs duties at 25% on CIF cost.



- i -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONGOLIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.  The Economy .        . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  Recent Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.  Current Economic Crisis . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .     3
D.  Short- and Medium-Term Economic Strategy  . . . . . . . .    3
II.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
A.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
B.  Project Description and Justification . . . . . . . . . .    6
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
D.  Detailed Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
III.  PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . .    19
A. Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
C.  Procurement   .              . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . .    22
D.  Disbursements. Accounts and Adts        . . . .      . .    24
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Mongolia Transport Sector Imports by "Autoimport" . . . . . .    18
3.1  Project Cost by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
3.2  Project Cost by Category of Expenditure . . . . . . . . . . .    20
3.3  Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
3.4  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
This report is based on an appraisal mission in October 1991 comprising Paul
Cadario (Principal Country Officer and Task Manager), Cevdet Denizer
(Economist), Lyra Pinto (Procurement Assistant) and J. Chanmugam and Chris
Brodie (Consultants). The project was prepared by a government team from the
Ministry of Trade and Industry led by G. Doyod (First Deputy Minister), and
including project unit staff Ts. Yondon (Deputy Head, Foreign Trade Department
of MTI and head of the unit), N. Batsaikhan, S. Bat-Oyun and G. Oyunchimeg,
with the help of an IDA preparation mission in August 1991 led by David Pearce
(Division Chief). Judy O'Connor (AF4CO) was a peer reviewer. The Division
Chief is David Pearce and the Country Department Director is Shahid Javed
Burki.



- ii -
Page No.
CHART IN TEXT
2.1   Output and Economic Effects . . .  . . .    . . . . . . . . .       8
ANNEXES
1. Goods to be Financed
2. Procurement Plan and Timetable
3. Terms of Reference for Procurement Advisory and Support Services
4. Economic Assessment
5. Draft Summary Terms of Reference for Reform-Oriented St-udies



MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy 1/
1.1       Surrounded by the USSR to the north and China to the east, west and
south, Mongolia is a vast but sparsely populated country, with a land area of
about 1.6 million km_--about half the size of India and four times that of
Japan--and a population of 2.1 million.  Topographically, it is divided into
three main areas: mountains, mainly to the north and west; the inter-mountain
basins; and the steppes (including the semi-desert and desert area of the
Gobi), which cover three quarters of the territory. Far from the moderating
influence of the sea, surrounded by mountains, and at a relatively high alti-
tude (averaging 1,600 meters above sea-level), Mongolia has a severe, extreme
and unpredictable continental climate, resulting in long, cold winters, with
average temperatures falling below freezing for six months of the year.
1.2       Mongolia has abundant agricultural land, about 80 percent of which
is suitable mainly for extensive animal husbandry (cattle, horses, camels,
goats and sheep). However, intensive crop cultivation is limited by the short
growing season, by extreme temperature fluctuations and by its incompatibility
with the Mongolians' traditional nomadic way of life. Mongolia is also rich
in mineral resources, including coal, iron, tin, copper, gold, silver, tung-
sten, zinc, fluorspar and molybdenum as well as semiprecious stones. Thermal
power, produced from indigenous coal and imported diesel oil, and traditional
biomass sources of fuel are supp2emented by electricity imported from the
Soviet grid. About 20 percent of the population, mainly in the rural areas,
remains without electricity, but the country's significant hydro- and wind-
generated electricity potential has not yet been tapped. Petroleum explora-
tion, initiated in the 1960s but abandoned in the 1970s, has recently been re-
activated.
1.3       Although Mongolia's natural rate of population growth accelerated
during the 1980s (estimated in 1989 at 2.8 percent annually, one of the high-
est in Asia), its average population density remains low, about 1.3 persons
per km2. About half of all Mongolians are under 20 years of age. Migration
from the rural areas has increased during the past two decades and the urban
population, 44 percent in 1969, rose to about 58 percent in 1989.
Ulaanbaatar, the capital, accounts for about 25 percent of total population
and about half of national production. However, internal markets remain thin
and fragmented and poor internal transportation and communications have
impeded regional development.
1/ A country economic memorandum entitled "Mongolia--Towards a Market
Economy" (Report No. 10108-MON) provides a detailed analysis of
Mongolia's economy, its reform program and development prospects.



B.  Recent Devcloments
1.4       Since 1924, Mongolia's economic, political and social dmvelopment
have been shaped largely by its close relations with the USSR, resulting in
the country's traneition from a pastoral feudal state to a centrally-planned
command economy. Owing partly to these circumstances and partly to its geo-
graphy, the country remained until recently almost completely isolated from
the international community, although it joined the United Nations in 1961 and
has participated in the activities of several specialized agencies since then.
Following relatively high rates of investment and output growth and rapid
structural changes during the 1970s and early 1980s, serious economic problems
began to emerge, characterized by increasing resource distortions, rising
domestic and external imbalances, insufficient employment opportunities for
the growing labor force, and a rapid buildup of external debt, mainly to the
USSR. In 1984/85, the government reacted to these problems by instituting
modest steps designed to improve macromanagement, reduce central controls, and
enhance the economy's efficiency. Although these initial reforms focussed
primarily on reducing the size of the bureaucracy, efforts were also made to
enlarge the scope of market-oriented activities and to exploit the potential
for expanding external trade with the convertible currency area. Notwith-
standing these initiatives, economic, social and political tensions intensi-
fied, the budgetary position weakened further, and external debt continued to
rise. By the winter of 1989/90, pressures to quicken the pace of reform
mounted dramatically and, in March 1990, demonstrations in Ulaanbaatar forced
the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP)-controlled government to
resign. After a brief interim administration and the country's first multi-
party elections in July 1990, a coalition government, still dominated by the
MPRP but also including significant opposition party representation, was
formed in September 1990.
1.5       Since then, the newly elected government, in addition to restoring
religious and political freedoms, has embarked upon a comprehensive three-year
program of economic reforms aimed explicitly at transforming Mongolia's cen-
trally-planned command economy into a market-oriented one. While their over-
all goals are clear, the authorities' specific objectives and policies are
still being defined in detail. They include: reforming the institutions
responsible for macroeconomic management; promoting the private sector and
improving the efficiency of utilities and enterprises that will remain in the
public domain; diversifying the economic base; and increasing trade wlth, and
promoting foreign investment and modern technology from, East Asia and the
OECD countries. To this end, the government has introduced significant price,
financial sector and fiscal reforms during the past year and, at the same
time, the country's legislature has enacted a plethora of institutional, legal
and regulatory changes designed to expand the scope of market transactions and
private economic activities. The Mongolian tugrik has been devalued three
times (from $1: T3.2 in July 1990 to $1: T40 in June 1991) and arrangements
for most-favored-nation (MFN) trading status have been concluded with Japan,
Republic of Korea and the United States. Finally, negotiations are underway
to restructure and reschedule Mongolia's large external debt to the USSR based
on the agreed principle that future debt service should not impede the devel-
opment of Mongolia's economy.



- 3 -
C. Current Economic Crisis
1.6       Despite the remarkable developments outlined above, Mongolia's
reform process has begun under adverse circumstances and, since early 1991,
the country has been experiencing a deepening economic crisis. Adverse
weather in 1990, resulting in a poor wheat harvest, and the systemic problems
that all rsahidly reforming socialist countries have encountered, are partly
responsible. However, by far the most important causes of Mongolia's current
difficulties have been external and essentially beyond the country's control.
First, the movement of Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trade to
world prices at the beginning of 1991 significantly worsened Mongolia's termo
of trade--a consequence of its very high trade turnover with the CMEA coun-
tries (until last year, well over 90 percent) as well as its composition.
Second, except for barter trade of two key commodities (Mongolian copper con-
centrates for Soviet petroleum products), the country's limited range of other
exports (mainly cashmere wool, hides, leather and meat) have slowed to a tric-
kle, owing to the collapse of its traditional CMEA markets, sluggish demand
for leather and wool products in the OECD countries and, until July 1991, the
absence of alternative trade settlement and payments arrangements with the
USSR to replace the CMEA trade regime previously in place. Third, the rapidly
deteriorating economic situation in the USSR itself has disrupted the flow of
petroleum products, foodstuffs, fertilizers and other essential imports,
including equipment and spare parts, to Mongolia. FinalLy, Soviet financial
aid, which during the 1980s reached about 30 percent of GDP, was terminated in
January, 1991, except for a few ongoing turnkey projects.
1.7       By mid-year, Mongolia's domestic and external resource positions had
become precarious and key economic indicators for the first six months euggest
that real GDP may decline by up to 15 percent for 1991 as a whole. This sud-
den drop in economic activity, coming on top of a major retrenchment in the
government work force last year, has increased urban unemployment which, in
Ulaanbaatar, is estimated to have reached 12 percent by mid-1991 and, accord-
ing to some, may exceed 25 percent by year-end. Meanwhile, the abrupt cessa-
tion of Soviet aid, which had subsidized Mongolia's state-owned enterprises
and covered the budget deficit, resulted in a significant financing shortfall.
In the absence until very recently of effective monetary and credit policies,
this gap was covered by domestic bank credit which, having increased by
11 percent in 1990 (compared to 2 percent in 1989), accelerated to a 175 per-
cent rise (at an annualized rate) during the first half of 1991. With prices
remaining controlled through 1990 and supplies of domestically-manufactured,
as well as imported, consumer goods deteriorating, the inflationary pressures
created by this rapid credit expansion were reflected in mounting shortages.
Despite subsequent price adjustments designed to eliminate many subsidies and,
in January 1991, the doubling ,r some prices and the liberalization of others-
-albeit accompanied by a doubling of wages and bank deposits--shortages oE
many industrial and consumer goods, including basic staples, have worsenel.
Real prices, measured in terms of purchasing power, were not doubled.
D. Short- and Medium-Term Economic Strategy
1.8       Against this background, the government has adopted an economic
strategy, described in detail in a Memorandum on Economic Reform and Medium-
Term Policies (distributed to Executive Directors on September 13, 1991) that



-4-
is grounded on three interrclated principles: stabilization of the economy;
implementation of structural reforms designed to improve market signals, to
enhance their effectiveness and to promote actively the role of the private
sector; and, to reinforce its market orientation, the opening of the economy
and the diversification of Mongolia's external economic relations. The prin-
cipal objectives of the authorities' three-year (1991-94) program are to
arrest the current economic decline while setting the stage for sustained
recovery, to contain inflation, and to progress towards balance of payments
viability. If successful, the program would by 1994 permit the resumption of
modest economic growth and the creation of the stable economic environment
that is needed to ensure further increases in output and improved living stan-
dards over the medium term.
1.9       Since the restoration of macroeconomic stability is a necessary
condition for sustained economic transformation, the program gives priority to
improved demand manugement and supply response policies through reforms. To
improve demand management, and specifically to contain the fiscal deficit and
develop appropriate monetary and credit policies, reforms are being introduced
to replace direct controls with the indirect tools of macroeconomic maragement
suitable for a market-oriented economy. A variety of fiscal, monetary, and
financial measures and targets have been developed for implementation during
the next 12-18 months. To improve the supply response, a broad range of pro-
duction and distribution system reforms are being formulated in order to cre-
ate a market economy, stimulate private sector activity, and foster competi-
tion. The principal features of the latter include: the privatization of most
state-owned enterprises and assets during the 1991-94 period; the deregulation
of all prices (except for public utilities, public housing rents, and selected
basic drugs); the abolition of mandatory state procurem2nt by the end of 1992;
and the liberalization of the external trade and payments system. In addi-
tion, the management of state-owned enterprises will be strengthened through
measures to enhance their operating autonomy and increase their efficiency,
pending their privatization. Finally, government capital expenditures will
henceforward be limited to maintaining and developing essential economic and
social infrastruiture, leaving new investment in industrial plant and equip-
ment to be financed mainly by the private sector, including foreign direct
investment--the latter as a means of also acquiring access to modern technol-
ogy.
1.10      The structural reforms envisaged in the three-year program are based
on the fundamental premise that a major increase in the role of the private
sector is essential to improving economic growth and efficiency. Thus, new
private economic activities are to be promoted through the creation of an
enabling legal and regulatory framework, including the definition of ownership
and property rights, a bankruptcy process, anti-trust and monopoly controls,
and the development of the requisite institutions. Under a privatization law
approved by the legislature in June 1991, state-owned enterprises are to be
transferred to private ownership or control in two phases during 1991-94
through stock sales, leasing, and free distribution of shares by auction under
a voucher (coupon) system. In addition, regulatory and other barriers to
market entry, operation of private enterprises, and individual private
economic activities will be eliminated.



-5-
1.11      Given its remote landlocked location, the direction of Mongolia's
foreign trade is unlikely to change quickly and the country will need to main-
tain existing economic relationships with the USSR, the former CMEA countries
and, increasingly, with China. However, the three-year program includes a
variety of supplementary initiatives designed to open up Mongolia's economy
and, specifically, to diversify gradually its external economic relations.
The main objectives are: to develop new markets for its limited number of
exports in order to stimulate domestic growth; to reduce the country's depen-
dence on a single source for certain essential imports and, at the same time,
to improve the quality and enlarge the choice of imports for investment and
consumption; to obtain new source& of external financing and technical assis-
tance; and to attract foreign direct investment, particularly for the exploi-
tation of Mongolia's abundant mineral reserves.
1.12      Finally, the three-year program recognizes that the transition to a
market-oriented economy will involve certain short-term costs, particularly
for the low-income population and the unemployed. It therefore includes mea-
sures designed to mitigate hardship, such as enhancements in the social secu-
rity and welfare system, direct cash transfers to vulnerable groups, and spe-
cial retraining programs to promote employment. Efforts will he made to
improve health care and disease prevention and special priority will be given
to reforming the educational system, including changing curricula to provide
job skills required by a market-oriented economy.



- 6 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Oblectives
2.1       Chapter 1 outlined the circumstances surrounding Mongolia's current
economic difficulties (paras. 1.6-1.7) and summarized the government's short-
and medium-term program (paras. 1.8-1.12). Against this background, the proj-
ect's principal objective is to help Mongolia rehabilitate, maintain and oper-
ate priority sectors of its economy. This would help check further serious
deterioration in the country's basic economic infrastructure and help to
ensure, indirectly, the output performance of priority sectors. Together with
the IMF Stand-By Arrangement of SDR 22.5 million and complementary cash and
commodity assistance already committed by other donors (including the Asian
Development Bank, Germany, Japan, Korea and the United States), the project
constitutes part of an immediate response by the international development
community to the country's short-term economic crisis. It is also a crucial
element in the government's efforts to stabilize the economy, to continue with
the reforms, and, thus, to promote and accelerate Mongolia's transition to a
market economy.
B. ;rolect Description and Justification
2.2       The proposed project would finance the import of equipment, materi-
als, spare parts, vehicles and other essential inputs needed for the key agri-
culture, energy (electric power generation, coal mining and petroleum prod-
ucts) and transport sectors.
2.3       The sectors identified and the specific items to be financed were
selected on the basis of an overall assessment of critical import require-
ments, estimated at about $500 million in 1991 and up to $600 million in 199o,
and of potential sources of supply and financing, including the likelihood
that a 1991 $400 million USSR/Mongolia barter trade agreement (accounting, in
principle, for 80 percent of import needs) is likely to be only partially
implemented owing to the rapidly changing situation in the Soviet Union. This
assessment, undertaken in August 1991 by the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI) with IDA assistance for a meeting of donor agencies in Tokyo last
September, was developed taking into account several basic qualitative crite-
ria: (a) the economy's structure and sectoral priorities; (b) Mongolia's need
gradually to reduce its dependence on one country (the USSR) for selected
commodities, products and spare parts obtainable elsewhere and, at the same
time, to begin the process of diversifying its external trade; (c) the need
for quick action in particularly vulnerable areas of the economy and, related
to this, the desirability of allocating the unrestricted external aid that had
already been made available from the United States, and (with some restric-
tions, from Japan) to items urgently needed during the next six months; and,
(d) the transportation and other logistical constraints caused by Mongolia's
remote, land-locked location.
2.4       At the same time, care was taken to ensure that the project would
not undermine the overall economic reform process by strengthening agencies or
supporting activities that may not survive the transition or are obviously
inefficient. Thus, sectors which will require major restructuring, or where



-7-
comparative advantaga is uncertain, have been excluded pending the detailed
analysis that will be necessary before new investments can be economically
justified.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.5       Following an IIIF Article IV consultation mission in April/May 1991
and an ADB economic-cum-programming mission in May/June 1991, the Bank's first
economic mission visited Mongolia from June 21-July 5, 1991. Its report
endorses the basic thrust of the government's economic reforms and also con-
firms the gravity of Mongolia's short-term economic difficulties, including
the need for early infusions of quick-disbursing and balance of payments-type
assistance by the international donor community. An IMF Stand-By program was
approved on October 4, 1991; Asian Development Bank approved a $30 million
program loan (from ADF resources) otn October 29, 1.991; and Japan and the
United States have committed emergency balance of payments support totalling
about $60 million. At the latter two countries' initiative, Japan and the
Bank co-chaired a Mongolia Assistance Group meeting last September in Tokyo.
2.6       Against this background and given the importance of the reform mea-
sures already undertaken and underway, the rationale for IDA involvement is
threefold. First, the proposed project, together with the IMF program cand ADF
progzam loan, would support the government's short-term stabilization efforts
and thereby help assure the sustainability of its economic reform program.
Second, this package of cooTdinated ADB, IDA and IMF assistance would help
arrest a further deterioration in the country's economic and social infra-
structure. Third, IDA's involvement has already included helping the govern-
ment establish clear criteria for determining and justifying a list of criti-
cal imports and is expected to catalyze the commitment of additional assis-
tance by other donors, in addition to Japan and the United States, over the
coming months.
D. Detailed Prolect Features
2.7       The proposed project would finance essential import requirements in
three sectors:
*    Agriculture
*    Energy (Electricit:y, Coal and Petroleum)
*    Transport
A brief summary of available sectoral data and details of the items to be
financed are given below. In addition, a matrix illustrating expected output
effects and economic justification is provided in Chart 2.1.
Agriculture ($6.5 million)
2.8       About 1,260 million ha, or 80 percent of Mongolia's total land area,
is available for agriculture. After industry, agriculture is the second larg-
est sector in the economy and accounted for 16 percent of GDP and 44 percent
of total exports in 1990. Despite industrialization, 43 percent of the popu-
lation still live in the countryside and 40 percent get their livelihood from
agriculture (1990). Livestock is the dominant subsector, representing 70 per-



MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chart 2.1: OUTPUT AND ECONOMIC EFFECTS
Component      Foreign cost          Description                           Production effects              Economic benefitsljustification
($ million)
Agriculture        6.5       Spare parts, equipment fertiliz-        Increased agricultural equipment        Increased food supplies for the
ers, veterinary medicines, and          availability (by 40 to 50% for         population; primary and sec-
other chemicals.                        1992 harvesting season, expected       ondary income effects with sig-
increase in crop harvest and           nificant implications for
production by 172.  Reduction in       aggregate GDP.
animal deaths by at least
100,000 and therefore higher
meat production.
Electricity       3.5        Spare and replacement parts,            Increasing capacity utilization         Net benefit of $7.4 million,
diesel generators, electric             to 75%.  Additional 926 million        implying a return on investment
motors.                                 kWh of electricity valued at            of 972.
$47.6 million during the 12
months following project imple-
mentation.                                                                  o
Coal              7.4        Spare and replacement parts,            Restoration of declining produc-        Provision of sufficient coal to
dumptrucks, bulldozers and              tion to at least its 1990 level        power plants and therefore
explosives.                             by fuller utilization of the           elimination of energy shortages
existing productive capacity           for the industrial sector and
implying a possible 700,000 to         the population.
I million ton increase in pro-
duction.
Transport         5.0        Tires, batteries, bitumen and           Increased truck and bus avail-          Increased capability for the
spare parts for road maintenance        ability (by 432) for the trans-        distribution of inputs for
equipment.                              port of freight and people.            industry and goods for consum-
Maintenance of 194 km of paved         ers, secondary income effects,
roads.                                 and reduced vehicle operating
costs.
Petroleum         2.0        Specialized lubricants for              Allow normal maintenance and            Permit continued operation of a
industrial, agricultural trans-        operation of existing electrical        wide variety of machines and
port and mining use.                    and mechanical equipment.              small equipment and thereby
maintain production. Avoid
damage (and therefore premature
end of equipment life) and
lower operating costs. Diver-
sify import sources.



-9-
cent of agricultural value added and accounting for 94 percent of land use
based on extensive semi-nomadic grazing. The remaining 6 percent of the agri-
cultural land is cultivated and crop production accounts for 30 percent of the
agricultural value added. The very short cultivation season makes Mongolian
crop production unuisually dependent on mechanization.  The principal commodi-
ties produced are animal products (meat, hides and tallow and smaller amounts
of milk and butter) and cereals (mainly wheat, and much smaller quantities of
barley, rye and oats). The main agricultural exports are meat, leather goods,
camel wool and cashmere.
2.9       For the past 40 years, agricultural production has been organized by
327 state farms and large cooperatives, administered by central planners who
set output targets and made investment decisions significantly removed from
the farm level. The State also assumed responsibility for the distribution
and marketing of agricultural produce as well as the supply of inputs for the
sector. This system, coupled with poor pricing policies, was unresponsive to
the development of agriculture and to the growing needs of the population. It
has led to shortages of basic foodstuffs. Consistent with its overall objec-
tive to move towards a market-oriented economy, the government plans to dis-
mantle, and privatize the state farm and cooperative system over a two-year
period. In 1992, mandatory state procurement will be eliminated. All output
from the newly-established private farms will be sold on the open market
through an agricultural commodity exchange. Agricultural cooperatives will be
transformed into companies, with existing members taking up shares, and their
activities limited to the provision of extension, transport and veterinary
services on a fee-paying basis. Current plans call for 80 percent of live-
stock on cooperative land to be privately owned.
2.10      Impsort Needs.  Meanwhile, and pending full implementation of these
structural reforms in 1992/93, Mongolia's agriculture has been experiencing
the same difficulties that affected other sectors of the economy in 1991.
Specifically, the 1991 harvest has been constrained, and preparations for the
1992 crop are being hampered by shortages of spare parts (batteries, tires and
transmission belts) for the existing inventory of 2,600 crawler tractors, 500
heavy tractors, 8,000 light tractors, 2,500 combine harvesters and 2,000 reap-
ers. MOA figures suggest that at least 40-50 percent of the agricultural
machinery is inoperative because of lack of spare parts, and as much as
25 percent of the crop output could not be harvested in the 1991 season. In
addition, stocks of fertilizers (ammonium sulphate, triple superphosphate and
potassium chloride) and other agricultural chemicals (herbicides and pesti-
cides) are virtually exhausted and there were no imports at all in 1991. It
is unclear whether the USSR, Mongolia's traditional supplier, will be able to
deliver the country's normal requirement which averages about 72,000 tons
annually. Finally, stocks of veterinary drugs and medicines, such as antibi-
otics, anti-parasitic and anti-tick preparations, are expected to be exhausted
by the end of this year and are urgently required for the 1992 calving season.
2.11      The proposed project would finance imports of spare parts, batteries
and tires for agricultural vehicles and machinery, fertilizers and other agri-
cultural chemicals, and veterinary medicines and supplies required to help
maintain essential agricultural activities, including livestock development,
in 1992.



- 10 -
2.12      Benefits.  The benefits of the agriculture component will be sub-
stantial. The financing of batteries and spare parts for agricultural machin-
ery will put half the existing stock of equipment back into operation. This
will allow Mongolia to cultivate more land and plant more crops for the 1992
season. With the availability of fertilizers and pesticides, it is estimated
that crop production and harvest will increase by at least 17 percent in 1992.
The financing of veterinary medicines and chemicals will improve the care of
livestock, raise productivity and reduce the number of deaths, which was at
least 100,000 more than the historical average in 1990. This will also con-
tribute to increased value-added in the livestock sector.
Electric Power ($3.5 million)
2.13      Electricity is the principal source of energy in Mongolia.  Its
production is a major industrial activity accounting for about 11 percent of
the total industrial value added. Mongolia's total installed generating
capacity is about 845 MW, of which about 80 percent comes from coal-fired
plants and the remaining 20 percent from diesel-powered generators. Five
coal-fired power plants (3 in Ulaanbaatar and 1 each in Darhan and Erdenet,
with a totalled installed capacity of 690 MW) transmit electricity through the
Central Electricity System (CES) to six aimaks, covering about 50 percent of
the population. CES's grid is connected by a 220 kV line to Irkutsk which,
during periods of peak demand and supply, is utilized for Mongolian electric-
ity imports from and exports to the USSR, mainly the former. During the
1980s, Mongolia's net imports of electricity from the USSR overaged about
$15 million per annum.
2.14      In 1990, coal-fired plants produced 3,000 GWh of electricity which
accounted for about 87 percent of total national electricity supply. Of this,
over 90 percent was generated by two large power plants in Ulaanbaatar which,
throug' cogeneration, also supply hot water during the winter for the capi-
tal's contral heating system. All Mongolia's power plants are Soviet-designed
and manufactured. They are appropriately coal-fired, but with outdated tech-
nology. They are highly polluting and inefficient in the cogeneration of
electricity and heat. Their operational efficiency was less than 60 percent
in 1990, with own use of energy of about 20 percent. Transmission and distri-
bution losses of the CES are also high, more than 10 percent in 1990. During
the last two years, declining coal production has become a serious problem and
the power stations in the CES have not been able to get adequate supplies.
Unless coal production increases, there will be major constraints on electric-
ity generation. Lack of critical spare parts, obtainable only from the USSR
and Czechoslovakia, is also a significant constraint. Despite planned main-
tenance, plant shutdowns resulted in frequent power outages and load shedding
during the 1990/91 winter; even Ulaanbaatar power plant No. 4, the largest and
most modern in the country, experienced a forced outage of over 15 percent.
2.15      Power generation, transmission and distribution in the 12 almaks not
covered by the CES grid is decentralized. In Dornod, there is a 24 MW coal-
fired plant and diesel-powered generators (ranging from 4 to 15 MW) supply
power to the remaining 11 aimaks. Additional smaller diesel units provide
power in other isolated locations. The total installed capacity of these
decentralized facilities is about 200 MW and, in 1990, they accounted for
about 400 GWh or 11 percent of total electricity generated. All these decen-



- 11 -
tralized plants, including spare parts and replacement units, are also of
Soviet and Czech origin.
2.16      Import Needs.  Following the breakdown of the CMEA trade regime, the
purchase and delivery of critical spare parts to Mongolia's power plants,
already erratic in 1990, was seriously disrupted during early 1991. This
reduced capacity utilization in the CES from 61.4 percent in 1990 to 38 per-
cent so far during 1991. It is expected to reach only 51.2 percent by the end
of the year. Electricity production fell by 10 percent during the first eight
months of the year compared to the same period last year, resulting in short-
ages and disrupting production. Ir mid-1991, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy
(MFE) estimated thft a minimum of about $15 million worth of essential spare
parts were required immediately, of which about $13 million from the USSR and
about $2 million from Czechoslovakia. If these spare parts, as well as
Soviet-manufactured diesel generators, are not available, Mongolia faces a
potentially catastrophic shortfall in power supply during the next few (win-
ter) months. In this connection, the government recently decided to use
United States aid to finance procurement of the most critical and urgent
items, estimated to cost about $3 million, from the USSR. In addition, it
plans to use recently committed Japanese aid to procure a second batch of
urgently required equipment and materials that do not, for technological rea-
sons, have to be supplied from the USSR, estimated to cost about $0.89 mil-
lion. The proposed credit would finance a third category of capital items
(diesel generators, transformers, cables and related supplies) required during
the next 12-18 months, with an estimated cost of $5 million.
2.17      Benefits.  The electricity subsector component of the proposed proj-
ect, along with other donors' contributions, will significantly reduce power
shortages that are disrupting industrial production and affecting living con-
ditions. The financing of spare and replacement parts and equipment will
increase capacity utilization from an expected 51 percent for 1991 to 75 per-
cent both in the CES and the decentralized diesel powered system during the 12
to 18 months following project implementation. This will result in incremen-
tal electricity production of 926 million kWh, the equivalent of $47.6 million
if valued at the import price of Soviet electricity ($o.051/kWh). Incremental
costs, operating and capital, will be $40.2 million, producing a direct net
benefit equivalent to $7.4 million over the next 12 months. Indirect benefits
will be reduced electricity imports and the provision of sufficient
electricity supply for the productive sectors of the economy and the Mongolian
people.
2.18      For the medium and longer term, an energy assessment study is
required to identify the electric power system's current and short-term
rehabilitation needs and to assess its longer-term investment priorities.
United States and Japanese technical assistance funds have been already allo-
cated to analyze the most urgent short-term rehabilitation needs of the two
main power plants in Ulaanbaatar. The authorities will undertake a short,
policy-oriented study in 1992 to examine these issues (para. 4.4).
Coal ($7.4 million)
2.19      Coal, one of Mongolia's principal natural resources, accounts for
90 percent of the country's primary energy production, mainly electricity.



- 12 -
Over 60 percent of total coal output is used for electric power generation and
cogeneration in Ulaanbaatar, Darhan and Dornod, which supply the CES grid, and
for the copper mine and town of Erdenet. Coal is also used in the rural
almaks to fuel boilers providing electricity, heat and hot water to small
rural industrial areas. Coal production accounted for about 3.8 percent of
industrial value added in 1990. The subsector employs about 4,400 people.
2.20      Mongolia's coals are of relatively poor quality (2,400-5,100 kc/kg
calorific value), ranging from high moisture brown coal/lignites to relatively
high ash bituminous coals. During the 1980s, annual output increased progres-
sively--to a peak of 8.6 million tons in 1988. However, it has recently
declined--to 8 million and 7.2 million tons in 1989 and 1990, respectively--
owing mainly to shortages of equipment, spare parts, and consumable materials
(including explosives). The declining trend continued in 1991 and coal pro-
duction was only 5 million tons by the end of September. For the whole year
it is expected that output will be 6.5 million tons and there will be a short-
age of 700,000 to 1 million tons.
2.21      There are currently 16 coal mines in production.  The Shive Ovoo
mine project is under construction and scheduled to begin production in 1992,
subject to mobilization of additional financing. Open pit mines account for
more than 95 percent of total output, with two mines--at Baga-Nuur (4 million
tons annually) and Sharyn Gol (1.6 million tons annually)--together accounting
for over 70 percent. The level of technology at these two mines is relatively
modern and the equipment available approaches international standards for open
pit mines. However, productivity of both equipment and manpower is relatively
low, owing to inadequate procurement of replacement equipment, spare parts,
and auxiliary equipment, particularly bulldozers which were all obtained from
the USSR. In addition, erratic deliveries and dwindling stocks of explosives
and other consumables have increasingly constrained coal production and over-
all mine productivity. The Sharyn Gol mine also faces increasing stripping
ratios of 5m3 overburden per ton (compared to Baga-Nuur's more favorable ratio
of 2-3m3 per ton). None of the remaining mines produces more than 0.5 million
tons annually, and the annual output of the 10 local (almak) mines averages
only 100,000 tons. While the (controlled) price of coal in Mongolia is well
below international levels and the opportunity cost of imported coal, all open
pit mines are financially viable and profitable, although production costs at
Sharyn Gol are approaching a marginal position at present prices. All mines
are owned by the Mongolian Coal Corporation (MCC) (Mongol Nuurs), under the
jurisdiction of the MFE, although they appear to enjoy considerable opera-
tional and managerial autonomy.
2.22      Import Needs.  Although coal excavation equipment capacity is con-
sidered adequate in the short term, particularly at the two largest mines,
there remain serious inadequacies at all mines in the availability of special-
ized mine transport (dump trucks), auxiliary equipment (bulldozers), and con-
sumable materials (explosives) to facilitate excavation. According to MFE and
MCC estimates, the cost of equipment, spare parts and consumable materials
required by all mines for the next 3-6 months, for the 9 month period through
mid-1992 and for the 21 month period through mid-1993, range from $26-45 mil-
lion. Taking into account American and Japanese aid that is available now to
procure items required during the next six months, the proposed credit would
finance part of MFE/MCC's estimated needs for 1992, specifically: (a) dump



- 13 -
trucks (40 tons) to transport coal from excavation faces; (b) bulldozers (250-
300 hp) to provide minimum support to mine excavation and transport systems;
and, (c) explosives to prepare overburden benches for excavation and to expose
coal for extraction.
2.23      Benefits.  The component would help restore the production capacity
of the two main coal mines, Sharyn Gol and Baga-Nuur, as well as some other
smaller ones. With additional financing of 20 dumptrucks (30 tons) and 5
bulldozers from Japan and 20 dumptrucks (40 tons) and 5 bulldozers from the
proposed IDA credit, it is estimated that coal output will be restored to at
least its 1990 level of 7.2 million tons through higher capacity utilization
during the 12 months following project implementation. This increase is
expected to meet fully the requirements of the power stations, as well as the
needs of the industry and the population, at a lower marginal cost than any
other alternative.
2.24      For the medium and longer term, a minerals and mining sector study
will be carried out commencing in 1992 under the proposed IDA Technical Assis-
tance Project. It will focus mainly on strategies for the development of all
Mongolia's mineral resources (including coal). Meanwhile, given the impor-
tance of coal, and its cost, to the country's electric power sector, it will
be important to proceed with pricing reforms as soon as possible. A short,
policy-oriented study of coal pricing will therefore be undertaken during 1992
(para. 4.4).
Petroleum and Lubricants ($2 million)
2.25      Since 1969, when production at the small Zumbayan oil field peaked
at 55,000 tons annually--equivalent to about 20 percent of Mongolia's annual
consumption of petroleum products at that time--and when a small refinery
constructed with USSR assistance was destroyed by fire, all Mongolia's
requirements for petroleum products have been met by imports from the USSR.
The dislocations in Mongolia's external trade with the USSR since late 1990
have affected the flow of petroleum products particularly severely. Accord-
ingly, partly to reduce the country's total dependence on this single source
of supply and partly to ease the burden of petroleum products on the balance
of payments, which in 1990 accounted for about 40 percent of total foreign
exchange earnings, the government plans to resume petroleum exploration. The
Mongolia Petroleum Company (MPC) was set up earlier this year and new laws and
regulations, including a model production sharing contract, are being drafted
to attract foreign investors. Although the potential for oil exploration and
development in southern Mongolia is believed to be reasonable, few detailed
geological or geophysical data are available and, given the high cost and
risks involved, it may be some time before serious exploration can start.
2.26      Meanwhile, annual consumption of petroleum products declined from
851,000 tons in 1988 to about 759,000 tons in 1990. Gasoline, diesel, and
fuel oils accounted respectively for about 42 percent, 41 percent and 8 per-
cent of consumption. Lubricants of all kinds--for agriculture, aviation,
industry, mining, and transport, comprising over 140 different products--
accounted for the balance, totalling about 28,000 tons in 1988 and 21,600 tons
in 1990. Faced with mounting supply constraints in the USSR and declining
foreign exchange earnings, the government has been obliged to curtail imports



- 14 _
of petroleum products severely in 1991. By July 1991, stocks had declined to
less than two months consumption. While the supply of gasoline and diesel oil
has improved somewhat following the 1991 USSR-Mongolia barter trade agreement,
the Soviets have already indicated that, owing to internal production con-
straints, they are no longer able to supply Mongolia's minimum annual require-
ment for lubricants of various types, estimated at about 30,000 tons.
2.27      Import Needs.  Since early 1991, the Petroleum Supply and Import
Corporation (PSIC), which is responsible for the import and distribution of
all petroleum products through 4 main storage and 19 satellite distribution
centers throughout the country, has been attempting to procure vital lubri-
cants from sources other than USSR. For example, it signed contracts valued
at $1.7 million with Shell Oil (UK) and Mobil Oil (USA) for various oil prod-
ucts, but these could not be implemented owing to lack of foreign exchange.
In addition to these two contracts, which the government now plans to finance
partially from other sources, and lubricants to be financed by bilateral aid,
PSIC needs to purchase additional lubricants required urgently by the power,
mining, transportation, agriculture, and food industries during the next 6-10
months, with an estimated cost of about $2.4 million.
2.28      Benefits.  Accordingly, the project would finance $2 million of
lubricants. While the proposed allocation is sma'll and far short of the coun-
try's requirements, it will help meet immediate needs, encourage the process
of diversifying Mongolia's sources of supply for this critical category of
products and, since Mongolia is not familiar with the range of items available
in countries other than the USSR, expose it directly to the discipline and
experience of international procurement from the world market.
2.29      After dealing with the current short-term crisis, the government
will need to develop a strategy to meet the country's increasing demand for
petroleum products, once economic growth has resumed. Assuming a 5 percent
annual increase in consumption, M4ongolia would require about 1.1 million tons
of petroleum products annually by the year 2000. To meet those needs, PSIC
would need to prepare medium- and long-term market forecasts for various
petroleum products and develop a procurement strategy for obtaining them from
the world market using international commercial practices. In addition, it
would need to consider how gradually to diversify sources of supply for dif-
ferent types of petroleum products, taking into account Mongolia's unique
transportation constraints and the potential for improved transshipment
through China. Finally, PSIC would need to strengthen its existing storage
and distribution system. A policy-oriented study during 1992 will examine
these issues (para. 4.4).
Transport ($5 million)
2.30      The transport sector in Mongolia is very underdeveloped.  It never-
theless accounts for about 10 percent of GDP and employs about 48,000 people
(1990). Being a landlocked country, the ground transport network consists
mainly of a north-south corridor through Ulaanbaatar which provides railway
links to USSR points in the north and Tianjin port in China in the south.
Ulaanbataar, the largest urban center, 4s the main generator of traffic. The
other two main cities, Darhan and Erdenet, are also on this north-south corri-
dor. These three cities account for nearly 60 percent of Mongolia's popula-



- 15 -
tion and most of the industrial activities. Outside this corridor, traffic
network is rudimentary as population densities are very low (less than one
person per kmi2). Personal mobility in Mongolia is very low.
2.31      Freight intensity is high in areas served by railways:  75 percent
of the country's freight in terms of ton-km is moved by railways, half of
which is coal. Foreign trade comprises another large part, as Mongolia is
heavily dependent on imported consumer goods and industrial inputs. The key
export commodities are copper concentrate and animal products. Road traffic
is the only other significant mode of distribution, carrying nearly 25 percent
of freight in terms of ton-km.
2.32      The railway system consists of 1,800 km of track, of which the
China-USSR link is about 1,100 km. The Mongolian track width is the same as
the USSR system (1,520 mm) as against standard Chinese gauge width (1,435 mm).
The gauge difference creates a weak link at the border with China. Mongolian
railways rolling stock of 65 diesel engines, 1,600 wagons (mostly leased) and
200 passenger cars are exclusively of USSR origin. Previously, all servicing
and repairs of engines and rolling stock was done in facilities in the USSR.
Mongolian Railways' inability to pay for repair and maintenance services means
that no such service is currently being performed in the USSR; instead, two
ill-equipped workshops are coping with the task in Mongolia.
2.33      The last two years have recorded a significant drop in railway traf-
fic. Transit traffic (between China and USSR), which prior to 1990 was of the
order of 3 million tpy, dropped to 1 million tons in 1990 and is expected to
be only 100,000 tons in 1991. In 1990, Mongolian Railways transported
14.5 million tons of freight and 2.5 million passengers, well below its
capacity, of which 8 million tons was domestic traffic (80 percent coal) and
the balance, trade with USSR. Corresponding figures for 1991 are expected to
be significantly lower. As a result, Mongolia Railways' financial position
has become extremely weak.
2.34      The capacity of the railway system is adequate, but maintenance of
tracks and rolling stock has become a serious problem. Mongolia currently
lacks facilities and resources to maintain its railway network. Changing the
trade pattern would shift the burden to the southern line which has a bottle-
neck at the border transit facilities at Erliang (PRC)/Zameen-Uud (MPR). At
present, most cargo is manually transferred from one set of wagons to the
others. Modernization of border transfer facilities to increase handling
capacity should be the highest priority. The Government of Japan has already
offered technical assistance to review this problem.
2.35      Mongolia has a small road network compared to its size:  about
42,000 km of roads of which only 1,300 km are paved. Most of these roads are
in poor condition. Road maintenance is being severely hampered by lack of
resources, mainly foreign exchange. Serious shortages in construction materi-
als, bitumen and equipment spares are prevalent. For example, of the 15,000
tons of bitumen required annually, only 400 tons could be obtained so far this
year which meant that planned maintenance and repair of 194 km of roads could
not be undertaken. Tires for motor graders and batteries are also in short
supply. The vehicle fleet consists of about 40,000 units--27,000 trucks,
2,500 buses, 6,000 privately owned cars and 4,000 agricultural vehicles. Most



- 16 -
of the vehicles are of USSR or other eastern European origin and depend on
spare parts supplied from the USSR. Nearly 70 percent of these vehicles are
over 6 years old. An estimated 30 percent of the buses and trucks are inoper-
ative because of tire and spare parts shortages.
2.36      Mongolia's primitive air transport system is the only mode of long
distance traffic to points not on the railway. It has been growing at the
rate of 5-6 percent per annum over the last 15 years. The air network links
21 major population centers and 160 smaller centers throughout the country.
Only 5 of these points have paved runways, the rest have dirt landing strips.
The ground equipment at these facilities is nearly 30 years old. Mongolian
International Aviation Transport (MIAT) has a fleet of 70 aircraft, mostly 12
and 50 seaters. Nearly 50 percent of the smaller fleet is inoperative due to
lack of spare parts and service facilities which are minimal. The Asian
Development Bank is planning a study to upgrade the ground facilities at the
UlaanLe,tar airport.
2.37      The government's privatization program includes the road transport
sector. In the short to medium term, it would not be possible to privatize
railways, air transportation and long distance road transport. Government
efforts would therefore focus on measures to improve their operational and
financial performance. On the other hand, privatization of small, single
aimak transport companies is already underway. They are being divided into
smaller units based on the service they provide and equipment they possess.
It is expected that nearly 70 percent of the vehicle fleet will be privatized
shortly. For this process to succeed, it is critical that the government
facilitates provision of spare parts and of service facilities. In the past,
large transport companies managed to run their owr. repair facilities, some-
thing which the private companies will not be able to do. Transport tariffs,
not adjusted in January 1991 when other prices were nearly doubled, will need
to be deregulated if the privatization effort is to succeed.
2.38      Import Needs.  Fuel and spare parts are the two most critical needs
of the sector. Reduced fuel imports are hampering the operations of transport
entities in both the public and private sectors. In 1990, a temporary ban was
imposed on the sale of gasoline for private vehicles, and a gasoline rationing
system is still in place. Supply of spare parts for all types of road vehi-
cles has dwindled, with adverse effects on transport of cargo and people.
2.39      Table 2.1 provides a summary of transport sector related imports
during 1988-91. It is difficult to convert past import transactions in rubles
to a convertible currency equivalent; however, based on the quantities
involved, it is estimated that total imports were of the order of
$80-100 million per year. These imports covered new vehicles as well as spare
parts for the existing fleet. The position for 1991, also shown in Table 2.1,
is precarious. While contracts have been placed for a number of items, only
small items relating to locomotives and trolley buses have been received to
date. The most critical import requirements are tires, batteries for all
kinds of vehicles, spare parts, and some basic road construction material and
equipment.
2.40      Benefits.  The project would address the most serious short-term
obstacles that reduce the contribution of the transport sector to the national



- 17 -
economy. Financing of $3.5 million of tires and batteries will reactivate the
30 percent of Mongolia's buses and trucks that are presently inoperative,
thereby increasing the availability and capacity utilization of the existing
transport vehicle fleet. This will significantly improve the flow of factors
of production and the delivery of commodities. Given that 70 percent of abso-
lute total freight tonnage is trucked, there will be sizeable, though diffi-
cult to estimate, economy-wide benefits. Provision of bitumen ($1.2 million)
and spare and replacement parts for road maintenance equipment ($300,000) will
allow the maintenance of 194 km of main, heavily trafficKed roads, most of
which need substantial repair. This will improve road transport conditions
and reduce vehicle maintenance costs, downtime, transport time and fuel con-
sumption.



Table 2. i 1 ONGOLIA TRBASPORT SECTOR IMPORTS BY 'AUMTU(ORT'
1988                    1989                  1990                                                     1991
~             (rders Placed            contracted               Received 
Qutity    Value        Quantity    value       Quantity    Vvlue    Qquatity                                                    V.",.traauiunty awua
('000 ruble)           ('000 ruble)           ('00 ruble)            ('000 ruble)           ('000 ruble)           ('000 ruble)           C'0O0 ruble)
Auto Trau not
,"         por                      1,497    17,966.0      1.069    14,510.0         981    13,655.0    1,038    16,737.6          156     1,110.0          -           -        156     1,110.0
Buses and trolley buses               275     3,651.3        217      4,500.0        220     4,436.0       256     6,982.7        140      3,758.4          9       225.0        131     3,''3.0
Trailers                              211      1,300.5       161        750.0        102       582.7       123     1,860.3          -            -          _           -          -            _
Cars and Jeeps                      1,200      1,030.1       372      1,500.0        280     1,119.6       410      1,923.4       250      1,082.5          -           -        250     1,082.5
Automobile (ambulance,
ag. amb., fire)                     426     5,200.9        342      4,755.0        260     3,371.7       341     8,981.4        107     2,210.0          -            _        107     2,210.0
Motorcycles                         5,000     2,814.5      5,000      2,777.2      5,020     2,803.1    6,000      3,678.6      3,500      2,121.8          -                  3,500     2,121.8
Spare parts for automobiles             -    27.47C.9          -    27,000.0           -    26,700.0         -    33,260.9          -    33,260.9          -            -          -    33,26D.9
Spare parts for trailers                -      1,030.1          -     1,057.1          -     1,057.1         -       900.0                       -
S ar* parts for motorcycles             -     2       814 10   -        721.6          -       650.0         -       818.8          -        818.8                            1456-        818.8
Tlr*s                             127.000     8,032.6   114,030       7,441.8   112,760      7,395.2  141.028             -    14,560      1,199.8                                       1,14,560  1199.8
Batteries                          17,500        710.0    18,000        715.0    16.550        690.0   18,814         801.7     1,900         79.1                      -      1,900        79.1
Subtotal                                  72,020.9                65,727.                62,460.4              75,945.4               45,641.1                   225.0               45,416.1
RailvwajTransIort                                                                                                                                                                                       *
TLoco otiveport10                            4,160.0          5    22,575.0           5     2,575.0         4     4,330.0          3       885.0          3        885.0                -
Freight cars                           12        484.7        25        750.0          -            -      112     4,430.0          -            -         -            -          -           -
Sleeping cars                           6      1,193.9         3        502.7          5       838.1        12     3,953.6          3      1,440.3         -            -          3     1,440.3      co
Hopper                                 20        544.8         5        138.8          -            -        2        81.6                                  -
Container                              70        110.0         -            -          -            -       20       474.4          -            -          -           -          -           -
Spare parts for train                   -     2,356.8          -      1,883.5          -     2,287.8         -     2,341.8          -      1,882.9         -        465.0          -     1,417.9
Extensive repair                        4        394.2         4        394.2          4       424.2         4       400.0          6        500.8         3        250.4          3       250.4
Subtotal                                   9,2444-                 6,244.2                6_125.1               6,061.4-               4,709.0                 1,600.4-               3,108.5
Avi Transport
Spare parts for plane and repair        -      7.003.8         -      5,523.0          -     4,751.9         -     6,938.5          -     2,779.9          -            -          -     2,779.9
Total                                     88,269.1                77,494.9               73,337.0              98,945.3               53,130.0                 1,825.4               51,304.5



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Cost and Financing
3.1       The project's estimat6d total cost is $37.95 million equivalent, of
which $30.0 million would be in foreign exchange (Tables 3.1 and 3.2). For-
eign costs are based on very limited experience with international procure-
ment, recent prices in other Asidn countries and historic costs for goods
bought in the USSR under barter agreements. Local costs include: fees paid
to the foreign trading corporations concerned for the storage and internal
distribution within Mongolia of imported goods; and import duties of 25 per-
cent. The costs of consultants' advisory services are based on typical cur-
rent costs for auch assignments. Contracts for all imported items are
expected to be signed during the next six months. Based on Mongolia's limited
experience with international procurement, however, $5.3 million has been
allocated for contingencies on foreign costs, including transport. In the
event of substantial cost overruns and given the nature of the projbct, quan-
tities would be reduced correspondingly.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
($ million)
Local L           Foreign          Total
Electric power production                 1.00               3.50            4.50
Coal Mining                               1.90               7.40            9.30
Transport                                 1.30               5.00            6.30
Agriculture                               1.70               6.50            8.20
Petroleum/lubricants                      0.55               2.00            2.55
Total critical imports               6.45              24.40           30.85
Consultant services                                          0.30            0.30
Contingencies                             1.50               5.30            6.80
Total                                7.95              30.00           37.95
la  Assumes levying of customs duties at 25% on CIF cost.
3.2       Annex 1 gives a list of goods to be financed by the proposed credit,
while Table 3.3 summarizes the project's financing plan. The proposed credit
would finance the project's full foreign exchange cost. All local costs of
storage, handling and transport, and customs duties of 25 percent of the CIF
border price would be borne by the end-users.
3.3       The proposed IDA credit would be made to the Mongolian People's
Republic on standard IDA terms. End-users would purchase project-financed



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
($ million)
Local      Foreign        Total
Imported goods plus freight and duties /a         6.75         29.70        36.45
Consultant services                                             0.30          0.30
Local handling and freight                        1.20                        1.20
Total                                        7.95        30.00         37.95
la  Cost-in-place (CIP) at site (including assembly) for dumptrucks, bulldoz-
ers and diesel generators; CIP Ulaanbaatar for all other goods.
imported equipment, vehicles, spare parts, materials and petroleum products at
their DAP cost in local currency at the official rate of exchange plus customs
duties (15 percent plus 10 percent surcharge) and local transport and handling
charges. The government undertook at negotiations to make satisfactory
arrangements for the end users to pay MTI for the goods,1/ and for MTI to
transfer promptly to MOF these payments, which would form part of budgetary
revenues. For revenue earning entities (e.g., the coal mines and the power
plants, as wrll as local vendors of tires and batteries and state commercial
farms), these payments are unlikely to require working capital or other
financing in amounts or at terms that would zesult in credit expansion.
Imports of equipment and spare parts for the road maintenance unit and veteri-
nary medicines would be provided to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry
of Agriculture, respectively, as part of their normal budgets.
B. Prolect Implementation
3.4       The Ministry of Trade and Industry's (MTI) Foreign Trade Department
(FTD) would be responsible for day-to-day administration, coordination and
management of the project, under the overall guidance and supervision of MTI's
First Deputy Minister. Within FTD, a four-person project unit has been estab-
lished. It includes a project coordinator, supported by three higher-level
staff experienced in foreign trade, procurement and payments (albeit under the
old system), two administrative assistants, secretarial and accounting support
staff. MTI is looking for an English-speaking typist, and may request a for-
eign volunteer through the UK or US Embassies for the six-month period. The
staff of the unit, who were the appraisal mission's main collaborators, would
be assisted by an internationally recruited procurement advisor (para. 3.7
below). Annex 2 summarizes key proiect implementation steps--the procurement
plan and timetable--and corresponding responsibilities, which were a8reed at
nezotiations. MTI has established an import procurement managemen; informa-
1/   Normally through payment to a foreign trade corporation acting as MTI's
agent.



- 21 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                                  30.00       30.00
End-users                 7.25                    7.25
Customs Duties         (6.25)                  (6.25)
Local freight          (1.00)                  (1.00)
Government                0.70/a                  0.70
Total                7.95       30.00       37.95
la Customs duties and local handling/freight on vet-
erinary medicine&, bitumen and road maintenance
equipment.
tion system (IPHIS) to monitor import requirements, purchase orders, deliv-
eries, and the physical location of the shipments, etc. An outline design of
the IPMIS. which is adaptable to include goods financed by other donors as
well as under the proposed Rroject, was discussed and agreed at neRotiations.
3.5       The project coordinator's main responsibilities would be:  (a) to
monitor and coordinate project activities and liaise with IDA on related mat-
ters; (b) to oversee procurement and disbursement matters, approve all pro-
curement documents for IDA review, and submit all disbursement applications to
IDA; and Ic) to submit regular progress reports (e.g., monthly to support bank
statements for the Special Account, para. 3.14), the annual audit report, and
a project completion report based on the submissions of the beneficiary agen-
cies. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that the FTD's proiect coor-
dinator and key proiect staff (designated before appraisal) would remain in
place until proiect completion, which is expected by December 31. 1992.
3.6       There are ten long-established foreign trade corporations (FTCs)
under MTI's jurisdiction, specialized according to sector. One FTC,
Mongolimpex, is responsible for export and import trade with convertible cur-
rency countries. The lack of foreign exchange and the long exclusive links
with the USSR means that Mongolimpex and the three othet FTCs recently allowed
to deal with convertible currency trade have very little experience in this
area. Some private enterprises have recently been permitted to engage in very
limited foreign trade activities. But the bulk of the country's external
trade is still conducted with the former CMEA countries and almost exclusively
by the FTCs. Changing the role of the FTCs, and more generally of the govern-
ment, in carrying out Mongolia's foreign trade is an important part of the
authorities' medium-term reform program. They anticipate that, as in most
market-orientt-d economies, trade will eventually be carried out entirely by
the private sector, with the state engaging in international procurement only
for civil works, goods and services required for large public investments and



- 22 -
infrastructure. The functions and responsibilities of selected FTCs were
reviewed in some detail by the IDA preparation mission. At appraisal it was
concluded that, given the nature of the procurement involved under the proj-
ect, its packaging, the need and wish to reorient imports--under the project
and more generally--to countries other than the USSR, and the decision not to
strengthen public sector organizations whose role and function is under review
by the government, MTI, with some advisory assistance, should take full
responsibility for all detailed procurement actions under the project.
3.7       However, given Mongolia's lack of experience with international
competitive bidding in general and IDA procurement policies and procedures in
particular, MTI will require procurement advisory and support services,
including up to six staff-months of an experienced, internationally-recruited
procurement advisor. Terms of reference are given in Annex 3. MTI has
selected the Crown Agents (UK) to provide these services: a contract
satisfactory to IDA is being finalized to provide the advisor in Ulaanbaatar
to work with the MTI unit, expert headquarters backup and logistical support
(e.g., printing of bid documents and dispatch to suppliers, communications and
help in rapidly procuring office equipment for the project unit). This advi-
sor, who would be appointed by the Minister of Trade and Industry, and located
in the unit in FTD responsible fo': procurement, administration and financial
management of the project, would be employed beginning around December 1,
1991. After helping organize the finalization and dispatch of tender docu-
ments to the bidders for ICB procurement, the analysis of bids for IDA
approval, and finalization of contracts, the advisor would help MTI manage the
logistics of the delivery of the critical imports. The advisor would focus
principally oxn the immediate, short-term requirements, namely, to advise, and
help FTD ensure that bid packaging, equipment specifications, conditions of
contract, biddting and shopping procedures and contract signing are carried out
in accordance /ith IDA Procurement Guidelines. At negotiations the government
agreed that this advisor would be maintained in post as required during proj-
ect implementation.
3.8       Institutional capacity for international procurement policies, pro-
cedures and practices is a medium-term need for the Mongolian public sector.
It calls for different advice, focussed on institutional development and
training questions that can be addressed only when the requirements for gov-
ernment procurement are identified. The authorities are now examining these
issues, and will consult with the Association during supervision of the proj-
ect. It is expected that advisory and training services for this longer-term
task will be financed by another donor.
C. Procurement
3.9       Except for specified items to be procured from the USSR
(para. 3.10), all project-financed goods and related services would be under-
taken in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Related items have been
grouped into eleven bid packages, to be purchased by international competitive
bidding (ICB). The ten ICB packages to be tendered by December 31, 1991 are:
diesel generators for electric power generation in aimaks; dumptrucks and
bulldozers, and explosives for coal production; tires for trucks, buses, trac-
tors and machinery; vehicle batteries; fertilizers; veterinary medicines;
agricultural equipment (including seeders, cultivators, trailers and milking



- 23 -
equipment); agricultural chemicals, including pesticides; and lubricants
(Annex 1). Commodities and off-the-shelf items will be procured following
simplified ICB procedures. ICB contracts are expected to amount to $17.7 mil-
lion equivalent, or approximately 60 percent of the credit, plus transport to
Mongolia. International shopping (IS) is expected to be used to procure
horse-drawn mowing machines (for livestock forage) from the historic supplier
in Poland or, subject to confirmation of availability, from suppliers in
China. Spare parts for existing diesel electric power generators in rural
centers would be procured by direct purchase from the original manufacturer in
Czechoslovakia. About $300,000 of goods would be obtained by international
shopping and $400,000 through direct purchase. The goods to be procured are
readily available, stock, off-the-shelf or commodity items. A standard ICB
bidding document will be used for international tendering, and appropriate
specifications have been prepared for each contract. Through an advertisement
already placed in UN Development Business and also sent to the embassies of
IDA member countries represented in Mongolia, MTI has invited potential sup-
pliers to indicate their interest in participating in the bidding process.
3.10      Mongolia's unique landlocked location, the very high proportion
(over 90 per cent) of its external trade with the USSR, and its technological
dependency on the USSR for virtually all goods, make direct contracting from
the original suppliers and vendors in the USSR the most efficient procurement
method for certain limited categories of urgently needed spare parts. The
appraisal mission reviewed in detail the lists of such specialized and propri-
etary goods in the selected sectors, including the likelihood that the suppli-
ers would be prepared and able to honor contracts signed earlier in 1991 under
Mongolia's barter agreement with the USSR. Soviet technology is used in some
member countries, including China and India as well as in East Europe, and the
manufacture continues there of some of the spare parts Mongolia now needs.
Given these supply possibilities, problems Mongolia has recently encountered
in making convertible currency payments through the USSR's banking system
raise concerns over its ability to effect payments promptly to the vendors to
assure timely deliveries. Accordingly, during and after appraisal MTI made
enquiries through commercial attaches in Ulaanbaatar about the existence in
IDA member countries of suppliers of these spare parts. If such suppliers are
identified, and the prices and delivery terms are reasonable, these spare
parts will be procured through international shopping or direct purchase
rather than through direct purchase from the original USSR vendor. For any of
the estimated $4.8 million of spare parts of USSR origin that cannot be
obtained in this way, it was agreed that during late November 1991 MTI would
send a delegation to the original manufacturers or suppliers (largely in the
Russian Republic) to confirm availability as well as payment and transport
arrangements. Based on this information, the delegation would negotiate
direct purchase contracts in a standard format, acceptable to IDA, that the
appraisal mission helped prepare. The delegation would include representa-
tives of the users (the Central Electricity System, the coal mines, the road
maintenance office and the state grain farms) and State Bank International. A
functioning system using heated railway tank cars and relying on the refinery
in nearby Irkuksk, Russian Republic (that continues to supply Mongolia's
petroleum fuel requirements, as in the past) is in place for supplying bitumen
for maintenance and minor repair of paved roads; it was therefore agreed that
bitumen with an estimated value of $1.2 million cotld also be procured as in
the past through direct purchase in Russia. Based on available price informa-



- 24 -
tion, some of which is 12-18 months old, the value of goods to be procured in
the USSR, including transport costs to the USSR/Mongolia border, is estimated
at $6.0 million. However, in view of the uncertainty over the use of prices,
based on historical experience, agreement was reached during negotiations
that, as a one-time exception to IDA Procurement Guidelines, up to $7.5 mil-
lion equivalent (25 percent of Credit proceeds) may be disbursed against spe-
cialized spare parts obtainable only from the USSR.
3.11      Transport. Logistical, Advisory and Auditing Services.  Mongolia's
landlocked position and its lack of experience with trade from sources other
than the USSR mandate special arrangements for the logistics and transport of
goods to be financed under the credit. MTI has already alerted and continues
to discuss with Mongolia Railways and the two state-owned transport and for-
warding companies, Tuushin and Mongol Tekh, arrangements for the likely volume
of freight to be handled together with their associates in China and the
USSR.2/ Bidders for goods procured under international procurement will
submit offers based on CIP Ulaanbaatar and, for diesel generators, dumptrucks
and bulldozers, CIP site. All bulk items will be shipped in containers, but
for some goods, such as veterinary medicines, suppliers will be asked to make
their own arrangements for air shipment directly to Ulaanbaatar. Goods pur-
chased from the USSR (para. 3.10) will be on the basis of DAF (delivered at
frontier) Mongolian border, as was past practice. Contracts acceptable to IDA
for procurement advisory and support services, international courier and, as
required, external audit (para. 3.16) would be financed under a separate cate-
gory of the credit.
3.12      All contracts would be subject to prior review by the Association.
Up to $3 million of eligible imports for which expenditures were made after
completion of appraisal, October 23, 1991, would be eligible for retroactive
financing. This would allow urgent procurement actions prior to effectiveness
to proceed without delay.
3.13      Based on the appraisal mission's assessment of the items proposed
for financing, their availability in international markets, and the urgent
need for many of them, the procurement arrangements described in Table 3.4 are
considered appropriate and feasible under the circumstances.
D. Disbursements. Accounts and Audits
3.14      To facilitate disbursements, MTI would establish a Special Account
in US dollars with the State Bank International. The authorized allocation to
the Special Account would Ie $3 million. MTI would send withdrawal applica-
2/   Arrangements for the reliable delivery of substantial new volumes of
containerized freight financed by IDA and by other donors and shipped
through China from Tianjin Port are also likely to include leasing from
USSR railways of around 50 additional railway flat trucks to prevent a
backlog of containers at Erliang/Zameen-Uud on the Mongolia-China border,
where freight must be transhipped owing to the different railway gauges.
An amendment to the current USSR/Mongolia leasing arrangement will
require government-to-government negotiations, which the authorities
planned to undertake after appraisal.



- 25 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB        USSR /a           Other        Total
1. Goods
Fertilizers                                           2.5                                       2.5
(2.0)                                     (2.0)
Agricultural chemicals                                0.5                                       0.5
(0.4)                                     (0.4)
Farm machinery & spare parts                          1.5          1.4              0.4/b       3.3
(1.2)        (1.1)            (0.3)       (2.6)
Veterinary medicines & instruments                    1.9                                       1.9
(1.5)                                     (1.5)
Power spare parts & equipment                                      2.6              0.5         3.1
(2.0)            (0.4)Lc    (2.4)
Diesel generators                                     1.4                                       1.4
(1.1)                                     (1.1)
Coal mining spare parts                                            1.8                          1.8
(1.4)                        (1.4)
Bulldozers & dump trucks for mines                    6.3                                       6.3
(5.0)                                     (5.0)
Mining explosives                                     1.2                                        1.2
(1.0)                                     (1.0)
Lubricants                                            2.6                                       2.6
(2.0)                                     (2.0)
Tires for transport equipment                         3.8                                       3.8
(3.0)                                     (3.0)
Batteries for transport equipment                     0.6                                       0.6
(0.5)                                     (0.5)
Road maintenance spare parts                                       0.4                          0.4
(0.3)                        (0.3)
Bitumen                                                            1.5                          1.5
(1.2)                        (1.2)
2.  Consultants (including                                                              0.3          0.3
procurement support)                                                               (0.3)       (0.3)
22.3          7.7              1.2        31.2
(17.7)        (6.0)            (1.0)      (24.7)
Contingencies Id                                                                                     6.8
(5.3)
Total                                                                                         38.0
(30.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
a Direct purchase of spare parts of a specialized and proprietary nature, and of bitumen.
Zb  Small equipment to be procured through International Shopping.
/c Direct purchase of spare parts from original Czech supplier.
d  Price contingencies and transport costs will be allocated to items to be procured based on
bid experience.



- 26 -
tion to IDA requesting replenishment of the Special Account, monthly or when-
ever the account is drawn down by about one-third of its initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. All disbursements from the Credit would be made
against full documentation. The Closing Date of the Credit would be June 30,
1993, six months after the project completion date, December 31, 1992.
3.15      The Foreign Trade Department (FTD) of MTI would be responsible for
preparing Credit withdrawal applications and for submitting supporting docu-
mentation. Disbursements would be on the basis of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for equipment and materials (CIP Ulaanbaatar or CIP at the site
for goods requiring assembly and commissioning by suppliers); 100 percent of
the total cost of consultant services; and, for equipment supporting consult-
ing services, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expen-
ditures 'ex-factory cost), and 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented.
MTI would also be responsible for ensuring that the users make appropriate
arrangements for the local currency required to pay handling and other
charges, duties, and local transport from Ulaanbaatar and for remitting to MOF
the payments it collects from end users for the goods financed under the
Credit.
3.16      All project accounts including the Special Account would be main-
tained by MTI and audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
annual audit report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. The government has formulated but has yet to adopt legisla-
tion on audit standards, procedures and requirements. During 1992 Mongolia
intends to establish an independent auditing firm--whether in the public or
private sector has not yet been decided--which would ensure compliance with
the obligations in international grant and loan agreements with the World Bank
and other donors. At negotiations, the authorities undertook to keep IDA
supervision missions informed about the progress of the audit legislation and
action to imlement it: detailed procedures for audit of project accounts,
including engagement of an internationally-recruited external auditor if nec-
essary, would be agreed during project supervision.



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The proposed project will support three key sectors whose
output performance has continuously declined during the last 21 months due to
insufficient foreign exchange availability for the purchase of spare and
replacement parts. By financing critical imports for agriculture, energy, and
transport the proposed project will increase and maintain capacity utilization
and hence increase production in each sector during the next 12 to 18 months.
The aggregate output effects attributable to the project, described in Chapter
2, are expected to be considerable. Moreover, given the backward and forward
linkages of the three sectors with the rest of the economy, economy-wide
effects of the project will also be substantial and help Mongolia to increase
its overall production level. Longer term project effects and benefits will
depend upon the continuing economic reforms, which the Association plans to
support through a policy-based adjustment operation in the near future.
4.2       The direct benefits of the project are described in Annex 4.  Taking
into account other donors' contributions, they can be summarized as follows.
In the agricultural sector, the financing of batteries, tires, spare parts,
and equipment is expected to put 40-50 percent of the existing stock of equip-
ment back into operation. This will allow Mongolia to plant and cultivate
more crops, particularly grain and livestock forage. In addition, the avail-
ability of fertilizers and pesticides, which the project is also financing,
will significantly increase production over recent levels. The Ministry of
Agriculture estimates that the proposed project will contribute to an increase
of at least 17 percent over 1991 output in the crop subsector, achieving the
1989 production level. The financing of veterinary medicines will improve
productivity and meat production in the livestock subsector and reduce the
number of animal deaths by at least 100,000 during 1992. Financing of crit-
ical imports for the electricity subsector will increase capacity utilization
from an expected 51 percent for 1991 to 75 percent, both in the CES and the
decentralized system. It is expected that this will result in incremental
electricity generation of 926 million kWh, equivalent to $47.6 million if
valued at the import price of Soviet electricity. Indirect benefits will be
reduced electricity imports and more importantly the provision of sufficient
electricity supply for the productive sectors of the economy and the Mongolian
people. The estimated output effect in the coal subsector will be the resto-
ration of output to 1990 levels. This increase is sufficient to meet the
requirements of the thermal power stations, which are presently experiencing
serious coal shortages, thus helping them meet the energy and heat needs of
industry and the urban population. The benefits for the transPOrt sector,
while difficult to quantify, will be the maintenance and repair of 194 km of
paved roads and increasing the number of buses and trucks in operation by
50 percent.
4.3       Private Sector and Social Impact.  The private sector will benefit
indirectly through improved availability of electricity and heat, transport
services (including urban transport) and food (grain and livestock). The ap-
praisal mission confirmed that a proactive institutional framework and dynamic
pclicy response is needed for this important facet of Mongolia's reform
program. There is a growing demand for credit and associated financial and
advisory services, although problems of definition and data make



- 28 -
quantification of demand difficult at this early stage of the reforms. The
nascent status of Mongolia's banking sector, the partial nature of its price
(including exchange rate) reforms and the still largely state-controlled
nature of its foreign trade regime made the definition of a private small-
scale industry component satisfactory to IDA and meeting the authorities'
objectives for rapid production increase and employment creation difficult in
the limited time available. In the circumstances, it was agreed at negotia-
tions that. comRlementarv to activities other donors (USAID and Germany. in
particular) are planning, consultant funding under the proposed 2roiect could
be used to undertake a modest, reform-oriented study of how best to assist the
small and medium enterprises and to prepare private sector development activi-
ties suitable for external financing. Terms of reference for this study will
be finalized in early 1992, and the study will be completed over the ensuing
six months.
4.4       The project deals with short-term import needs to ensure the success
of the stabilization program, so that the next stages of adjustment can begin
as soon as possible. To focus attention on these medium-term issues, at nego-
tiations, the authorities agreed to exchange views regularlv during the super-
vision of the project on Mongolia's reform program and its medium-term devel-
opment. To facilitate the discussion of issues of particular importance for
the medium-term adjustment of the economy and which are linked to the sectors
supported under the proposed project (i.e.9 energy policy, coal pricing,
petroleum demand and supply, agricultural supply and distribution, and exter-
nal trade and export promotion), relevant government agencies would undertake
modest reform-oriented studies of these topics. Terms of reference and agency
responsibilities in Mongolia would be agreed during the first supervision
mission in early 1992. Outline terms of reference are given in Annex 5.
Internationally recruited experts to support these investigations would be
financed under the proposed IDA Technical Assistance Project.
4.5       Environmental Impact.  The project is not expected to have any nega-
tive environmental impact, since it does not involve capacity expansion or
untested technologies in the selected sectors and avoids industrial sectors
whose economic, technical and financial viability remain to be confirmed under
market conditions. Other donors are now studying improvements to the existing
power plants that would reduce air pollution once the installations are retro-
fitted or replaced.
4.6       Risks.  The main risks to the project are that procurement problems
and transport bottlenecks might seriously delay or prevent the delivery of the
critical imports. The procurement plan and timetable (Annex 2) was designed
to mitigate these risks. Special attention was paid to simplifying specifica-
tions so that off-the-shelf and stock items would be procured (i.e., no goods
requiring custom manufacturing), and the appraisal mission helped MTI draw up
a detailed procurement process, with all steps specified. Because of the
authorities' inexperience with international procurement, the project would
finance procurement advisory and support services.  Given the volume of con-
tainerized freight that will be arriving, financed by IDA, Japan and the Asian
Development Bank, transportation of equipment, and spare and replacement parts
from Tianjin, China may pose a problem, despite new transport and forwarding
arrangements that have been implemented for Mongolia's trade through China.
The procurement tracking system includes monitoring of physical location of



- 29 -
all shipments. The qualifications and terms of reference for the procurement
advisor include special attention to these transport and logistics problems
and the need for close coordination with suppliers and transport organizations
in both China and Mongolia, particularly at the border transhipment point.
Changes of key MTI personnel responsible for the project would pose a risk to
the procurement and management process; accordingly, the government has agreed
to maintain the staff in place during project implementation.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        At negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) MTI's project coordinator and key FTD staff, and as required the
procurement advisor, would remain in place until project completion
(para. 3.5);
(b) A procurement plan and timetable (para. 3.4, Annex 2);
(c) Up to $7.5 million equivalent (25 percent of credit proceeds) may be
disbursed against specialized and proprietary spare parts and for
bitumen procured from the USSR (para. 3.10);
(d) Regular exchange of views with the Association on Mongolia's reform
program and medium-term development, particularly as related to
energy use, petroleum supply and demand, coal pricing, agricultural
supply and marketing and trade and export promotion, based on stud-
ies to be supported under the proposed IDA Technical Assistance
Project (para. 4.4).
5.2       At negotiations, understandings acceptable to IDA were also reached
on:
(a)  Terms of reference, including contract terms and conditions, for the
procurement support and logistics services (para. 3.7);
(b) A procurement monitoring system for MTI (para. 3.4);
(c) Internal delivery, pricing and distribution of imported items
(para. 3.3);
(d) Keeping IDA informed on the progress of audit legislation
(para. 3.16); and
(e) Use of consultant services to help undertake during 1992 a short
study, complementary to activities other donors are planning, of how
best to assist Mongolia's small and medium enterprises and prepare
private sector development activities suitable for  xternal
financing (para. 4.3).
Recommendation
5.3       With the above agreements, assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is economically, technically and managerially feasible and would be
suitable for an SDR 22.2 million IDA credit (equivalent to $30 million), on
standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity.



ANNEX I
Page 1
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Goods to be Financed
($ '000)
Direct
Description of Goods                                    Unit      Quautity         Value         ICB        Parchase      Other          Total
USSR                    (million)
Energy Sector                                                                                  1,100.0      2,000.0       400.0           3.5
Diesel generators                                      pcs           6         1,100.0       1,100.0
Spare parts for diesel generators                      '000                      400.0                                  400.0 al
Spare parts for crushers                               '000                      263.5                      263.5
Spare parts for pumps                                 '000                        36.0                        36.0
Spare parts for diesel generators                     '000                       146.0                       146.0
Pumps and spare parts                                 '000                       320.0                      320.0
Spare parts for oil preheater                         '000                       140.0                       140.0
Electric motors                                        pCs       3,822           463.5                      463.5
Spare parts for electric motors                       '000                       530.0                      530.0
High pressure valves and taps                          pcs         300           101.0                       i10.0
Mining Sector                                                                                  6,000.0       1,400.0                      7.4
Dumptrucks                                             pcs          20         4,000.0       4,000.0
Bulldozers                                             pcs           5         1,000.0       1,000.0
Explosives                                             ton       2,000         1,000.0       1,000.0
Spare parts                                           '000                     1,361.9                    1,361.9
Excavators                                          '000                       172.3                       172.3
Mining
Nalaikh                                           '000                       273.3                      273.3
Baga-nuur                                         '000                      277.9                       277.9
Shareengol                                        '000                       148.8                      148.8
Electric locomotives                                '000                        18.9                        18.9
Mobile excavators                                   '000                       470.7                      470.7
Transport Sector                                                                               3,500.0       1,500.0                      5.0
Tires                                                  pcs      33,000         3,000.0       3,000.0
Bus tires                                            pcs         400            66.0          66.0
Truck tires                                          pcs      28,500         2,514.0      2,514.0
Tractor and combine tires                            pcs       2,000           300.0        300.0
Car tires                                            pcs       2,000            80.0         80.0
Motor grader and roller tires                        pcs         100            40.0          40.0
Batteries                                              pcs       8,000           500.0         500.0
Truck batteries                                      pcs       5,000           343.0        343.0
Car batteries                                        pcs       3,000           157.0         157.0
Bitumen                                                ton       6,000         1,200.0                    1,200.0
Spare parts for road maintenance equipments           '000                       300.0                      300.0



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Direct
Description of Goods                                   Unit      Quantity         Value        ICB        Parchase      Other          Total
USSR                    (millon)
Agricultural Sector                                                                          5,100.0       1,100.0       300.0          6.5
Fertilizers                                           ton       1,000        2,000.0       2,000.0
Medicine for livestock                                '000                    1,500.0      1,500.0
Equipment                                                                     1,432.5      1,132.5
Seeder (sawing mathine)                             pcs         100           300.0        300.0
Cultivator                                          pcs          10            20.0         20.0
Conveyor for seed                                   pcs          10           30.0          30.0
Milking machines                                    pcs         100            50.0         50.0
Horse drawn sikle                                   pcs         300           300.0                                 300.0 bl
Milk separators                                     pcs       1,500           232.5        232.5
Trailer                                             pcs         250          500.0         500.0
Spare parts for agricultural
machines and tractors                               '000                    1,100.0                    1,100.0
Pesticides & other chemicals                         '000                       400.0        400.0
Petroleum Sector                                                                                                                        2.0
Lubricants                                            ton                    2,000.0       2,000.0
Total imported goods                                                                                                              24.4
Consultant services & equipment                                                                                                          .3
Unallocated                                                                                                                             5.3
GRAND TOTAL                                                                            17,700.0       .,000.0      700.0          30.0
La Direct purchase from original supplier.
lb International shopping or direct purchase from original suppliers.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION _PROJECT
Procurement Plan and Timetable
Action/Responsibility                                                        For Completion by
1.   Submit notices for Development Business.  MTI                                October 16, 1991 A
2.   Notify commercial attaches of Bank member countries of
goods to be procured under the project (send copy of
Development Business notice).  MTI                                          October 31, 1991 A
3.   Contact commercial attaches in Ulaanbaatar to investigate
availability of spare parts, previously obtained
in the USSR, from other countries. MTI                                      November 15, 1991 A
4.   Prepare standard bidding document for ICB
MTI with help of foreign trade companies, user ministries,
State Bank International. World Bank mission                                October 25, 1991 A
5.   Prepare standard contract for direct procurement in USSR
TffI. World Bank mission. State Bank International                          October 25, 1991 A
6.   Alert Tuushin and Mongol Tekh of need to prepare for
forwarding and transport services for large quantities of
freight arranged by suppliers between Tianjin Port and
Ulaanbaatar and, possibly, between Europe and Ulaanbaatar
across the Soviet Union. MTI, with help of World Bank
mission                                                                     October 25, 1991 A
7.   Finalize draft ICB packages (invitation to bid, technical
specifications and draft contracts) and send for World Bank
"no objection".  MTI                                                        November 1, 1991 A
8.   Contract for procurement advisory and support services to
be signed after "no objection" of the W^rld Bank.  MTI                      November 20, 1992
9.   Finalize lists of spare parts for procurement in the USSR
and send lists and draft contracts to likely suppliers.
MTI (on basis on 3 above) with help of Mongolia's trade
representative in Moscow and FTCs                                           November 22, 1991
10. Contact suppliers of spare parts to be procured in Bank
member countries by direct purchase, send draft standard
contract and spare parts specifications. MTI with helR
of procurement advisor.                                                     November 30, 1991
11.  MTI/User/SBI delegation visits suppliers in the USSR to                      December 6-
negotiate direct purchase of spare parts (per 9 above).                      December 20, 1991
12. Dispatch of copies of negotiated contracts with USSR
suppliers to the World Bank.  MTI                                           December 31, 1991
13. Selection of companies who will be invited to submit offers
for 11 or 12 ICB packages under expedited ICB procedures (on
basis of responses before December 1 to Development Business
advertisement).  MTI with help of procurement adviser.                      December 15, 1991
14. Printing of ICB bid packages for dispatch to
invited bidders.  MTI's outside procurement support                         December 15, 1991
15. Dispatch of documents to invited ICB suppliers. MlI's
outside procurement support, as packages are ready and
lists of potential bidders for each ICB package are agreed                  December 31, 1991



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Action/Responsibility                                                        For Completio', by
16.  Finalize contracts for direct purchase of spare parts from
suppliers in Bank member countries and make orders.  NTI                    December 31, 1991
17.  Answer bidders' questions, provide clarification of
ICB bid documents.  MTI with help of procurement adviser                    January 1992
18.  Receipt of ICB offers at NTI's overseas "postbox"                            January 31, 1992
(timing staggered per date of dispatch of documents,
step 15, and nature of goods) and shipment of bids to
Ulaaabaatar. MTI with help of procurement adviser and
outside procurement support
19.  Public bid opening in Ulaanbaatar.  MTI                                      February 1, 1992
20.  Analysis of bids.  MTI with help of procurement advisor                      February 28, 1992
21.  Dispatch of bid evaluation reports by courier or fax to
the World Bank (as each is ready).  MTI                                     February 28, 1992
22.  Finalization of contracts.  NTI while awaiting World Bank
"no objection"                                                              March 15, 1992
23.  Notification of contract award to lowest responsive
bidder for each ICB package and signature of contract.
Send copy of each contract to the World Bank to support
disbursement request/special commitment on letters of
credit opened by suppliers' banks. MTI, with help of
procurement advisor, as each World Bank "no objection"
is received                                                                 March 31, 1992
24. Supervise transport, delivery and payment process. MTI
with help of procurement adviser and transport contractor                   February-July, 1992



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Procurement Advisory and Support Services
1.        The Government of the Mongolian People's Republic has applied to the
International Development Association (IDA) for a $30 million credit to help
finance an Economic Rehabilitation Project (ERP). The proceeds of the credit
will be used to finance the purchase of certain essential imports required to
rehabilitate, maintain and operate key sectors of the economy during the next
12-18 months, in support of the authorities' economic stabilization program.
Mongolia's Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) will manage the project, and
all procurement will be consistent with World Bank Guidelines.
2.        The project unit of the MTI's Foreign Trade Department requires the
services of a firm with extensive experience ir international procurement to
help its staff organize and manage the tendering, selection and delivery of
about $30 million of critical imports. The ter.dering process has begun with
the preparation of technical specifications and standard documents for inter-
national competitive bidding and direct purchase of the goods listed in the
attachment. It is expected that most goods will be delivered to Mongolia in
containers through the port of Tianjin in the People's Republic of China to
government warehouses in Ulaanbaatar. But for some machinery (bzlldozers,
dumptrucks), equipment (diesel generators) and goods, other sh'.ping arrange-
ments (e.g., by airfreight directly to Ulaanbaatar for the veterinary medi-
cines and some specialized lubricants, or on-site assembly and commissicning
at the site for equipment and machinery) will be necessary. While two
Mongolian state-owned transport industries, Tuushin and Mongol Tekh, have made
transhipment arrangements with forwarding agents in China at the port of
Tianjin and with China Railways and Mongolia Railways, shippers will make
their own shipping, forwarding and transport arrangements to comply with the
delivery and packing specifications of the tender documents.
3.        The selected firm would provide:
(a) About six staffmonths of a procurement and logistics advisor, to be
resident in Ulaanbaatar over a period starting November 30, 1991 and
ending around June 30, 1992. This advisor would help MTI finalize
bidding documents, respond to bidder enquiries, evaluate bids,
finalize contracts, and supervise the delivery and reception pro-
cess;
(b) Expert services at the firm's headquarters for technical enquiries
from MTI on specifications, shipping costs, etc.
(c) Administrative support at the firm's headquarters or one of its
offices outside Mongolia for printing/photocopying of bid documents
(request for bids, technical specifications and draft contract) and
their dispatch to invited bidders by international courier service.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) Assist MTI in procuring office equipment (telex machine, facsimile,
photocopier, two typewriters, one personal computer with printer and
appropriate word processing, accounting and database software) and
supplies (paper and stationery) for the project unit.
4.        The government will provide local transport as required and all
visas and entry/exit assistance for the advisor(s). MTI will arrange any
telex or telephone lines for project unit and pay international communications
charges for the procurement process. The contract with the firm and the advi-
sor's compensation are exempted from taxes and duties levied in Mongolia.



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page .1
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Assessment
Agriculture Component
1.        Despite industrialization, agriculture continues to play an impor-
tant role in the economy, much greater than its 20 percent share in GDP
implies.  It is a key element in the social fabric, employing 93 percent of
the rural population and 40 percent of the total labor force. It accounts for
about 44 percent of total exports, mostly livestock products. Agriculture has
important linkages with the rest of the economy and provides more than 75 per-
cent of raw materials and other inputs for leather and shoe factories, wool
processing mills, milk and bakery plants. The major agricultural activities
are animal husbandry and crop farming. About 70 percent of agricultural value
added comes from animal husbandry, the rest from crop production. Agricul-
tural GDP in Mongolia shows significant year-to-year fluctuations because of
severe variations in weather con6itions. However, a rising trend is discern-
ible and annual growth averaged 2.7 percent during 1986-90.
2.        Until very recently, agriculture was centrally planned with the
state fully responsible for production, supply of inputs, and distribution and
sales of produce. The state owned all land, most livestock and virtually all
farm equipment, ari production was organized by 325 state farms and large
cooperatives. Eaca year every farm was required to submit lists of machinery,
chemicals and other inputs which were then aggregated to determine the sec-
tor's input needs. State orders were set for deliveries of meat, milk, wool
and wheat by individual farms and cooparatives at government guaranteed
prices. The inadequacies of this system did not emerge for many years since
Mongolia's CMEA partners made up shortfalls in domestic output and provided
markets for its exports. The rigidities imposed by central planning did not
permit the full realization of agricultural potential and gave it little
chance to respond to the diversifying preferences and needs of the population.
Recent events have illustrated the agricultural sector's increasing inability
to provide a year-round supply of basic foodstuffs, even milk and meat.
3.        Livestock development has traditionally been the main agricultural
activity in Mongolia. Since 1959, most livestock (72 percent) have been
state-owned. However, limits on private ownership were abolished in 1990,
some state-owned cattle were sold at low prices or given on long-term lease to
smallholders, and the share of privately held animal stock rose to 40 percent.
As a result, the total herd increased to 26 million in 1991, from about
22 million in 1987. The main animals are sheep, goats, cattle, horses and
camels for their wool, hair, skin, meat, hides and tallow and smaller amounts
of milk and butter. The main agricultural exports are meat, leather-goods,
camel wool and cashmere.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Animal husbandry has remained largely pastoral and is very much
dependent on environmental and climatic conditions. Improvements have been
limited to providing winter shelter for stock, and water supply. There are no
sophisticated methods to control endemic or parasitic diseases, although vet-
erinary boards and laboratories have been set up in all aimaks and somons.
Medicines are mostly imported. Yearly losses are often as much as 1 million
newborn stock and almcst as many adult stock; and, shortages of medicines led
to an increase in the number of deaths by at least 100,000 in 1991. Owing to
lack of incentives and poor pricing, productivity has been low and the poten-
tial of the livestock subsector has not been realized. For instance, average
wool output is less than 2 kg per head. At mechanized dairy farms, the aver-
age milk yield is about 2,600 liters per cow annually and 1,200 liters in
simple dairy farms. Meat production remained virtually stagnant during the
1980s and barely reached 498,500 tons in 1990, resulting in shortages. Milk
production declined by 32 percent in the first quarter of 1991 compared to the
first quarter of 1990, reflecting the lack of sufficient fodder. Egg output
has also fallen by 10 percent during the first quarter of 1991.
5.        Expanding crop production and bringing additional land under culti-
vation has been one of the major goals of agricultural policy. Following the
1959 virgin lands policy, there have been substantial increases in the produc-
tion of wheat and other cereals, potatoes and other vegetables, hay and fod-
der. However, these increases mask low yields owing to the soil's low natural
fertility and insufficient rainfall. There are 1.3 million ha under cultiva-
tion, of which 35,500 ha with irrigation in 140 systems. The average yield
for cereals is only 1.1 tons/ha. In normal years, the country produces enough
wheat and potatoes to meet domestic needs, but only one-third of its vegeta-
ble, fruit and fodder requirements. About 75 percent of crop output is pro-
duced on state farms. Poor pricing policies and state orders have hindered
crop development and there is little diversification. The annual average
output in the late 1980s was about 800,000 tons of grains, 150,000 tons of
potatoes, 45,000 tons of vegetables and 500,000 tons of fodder.
6.        The economic crisis has been strongly felt in the agricultural sec-
tor. Lack of key imported inputs have had a negative impact on production,
limiting further expansion of the sector in 1990 and 1991 and threatening the
1992 harvest   Shortages of spares, batteries, tires, transmission belts have
left about 40-- . percent of the existing stock of 2,600 crawler tractors,
5,000 heavy tractors, 8,000 light tractors, 2,500 combine harvesters and 2,000
reapers idle. This has reduced crop harvesting capability: output was lower
by 14 percent in 1990 compared to 1989. Conditions further deteriorated by
1991: it is estimated that as much as 25 percent crop could not be harvested.
Hence, crop output was expected to be substantially lower from its 1990 level
(Table 1). With no imports in 1991, stocks of fertilizers (ammonium sulphate,
triple superphosphate and potassium chloride) and other chemicals (pesticides
and herbicides) are virtually exhausted. It is not clear whether the USSR
will be able to supply Mongolia's normal requirement which averages 70,000
tons annually. Veterinary medicines such as antibiotics, anti-parasitic and
anti-tick preparations are also in short supply as the country could only
import about 9 percent of its annual needs during 1991. This has led to
increased livestock deaths, at least 100,000 more than the historical averages
so far during the year. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) estimates that



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
agricultural sector needs $33 million of spare parts, farm equipment,
fertilizers, and veterinary medicines for the 1992 growing season. The
proposed project will provide $6.5 million for the most urgent import needs of
the sector.
Table 1: AGRICULTURAL INDICATORS
1987         1988         1989         1990
Grains ('000 tons)                      689.7        814.4        839.0        721.5
Wheat ('000 tons)                       543.8        672.0        686.7        598.9
Potatoes ('000 tons)                    138.0         97.9        148.0        129.2
Vegetables ('000 tons)                   45.7         51.2         54.9         35.4
Total  ('000 tons)              1,417.2      1,635.5      1.728.6       1,485.0
Total livestock production
Meat ('000 tons live weight)            479.3        455.5        482.3        498.5
Milk (million liter)                    290.5        291.6        296.3        315.6
Wool ('000 tons)                         25.3         25.8         26.6         26.7
Fertilizers ('000 tons)
Nitrogen                                 36.7         35.4         33.8         30.5
Phosphorus                               41.8         40.9         30.0         13.3
Potash fertilizer                        10.0          7.4          5.7          2.8
Total                               88.5        83.7          69.5         46.6
Pesticides  ('000 tons)
2,4D-Butyl                                450          480          450          410
Granosan                                  225          200          200          189
Total                               675           680          650          599
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
7.        Benefits.  The proposed financing of imported spare parts,
equipment, fertilizers, veterinary medicines and other chemicals will address
the most serious short term obstacles to maintaining production, and thus help
reduce factors that are likely to constrain 1992 agricultural production.
Spare and replacement parts will enable Mongolia to increase the capacity
utilization of its agricultural capital stock by reactivating 40 to 50 percent
of the currently inoperative agricultural equipment. This will, to a large



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
extent, eliminate constraints on cultivation and harvesting. Provision of
fertilizers will contribute to the production of main crops (grains, wheat,
potatoes, and vegetables) in the 1992 season. With continued good weather,
output could be restored to its 1989 level of 1.7 million tons, a 17 percent
increase over the expected 1991 level. Supply of pesticides will reduce
insects and vermin, which multiplied during the last two years. Financing of
veterinary medicines, drugs, and chemicals will reduce the number of animal
deaths due to lack of medicines by at least 100,000 and therefore contribute
to increased meat production. The indirect benefits of the project will also
be substantial. Agriculture accounts for 20 percent of GDP and has important
backward and forward linkages with the rest of the economy, supplying inputs
to industry and employing 40 percent of the population. Improvements in the
sector will therefore lead to primary and secondary income effects--very dif-
ficult to quantify--with a positive impact on GDP.
Electricity Componenty
8.        Electricity, generated with domestically-mined coal and imported
diesel fuel, is the principal source of energy in Mongolia. It is also a
major industrial subsector, accounting for about 11 percent of total indus-
trial value added (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP in 1990) and employing
about 16,000 people. As a result of the government's industrialization
policy, investment in electric power has been high, about 30 percent of total
industrial investment during the 1980-89 period. Consequently, electricity
supply doubled between 1980 and 1988, expanding at an average annual rate of
9 percent. Despite this rapid increase, Mongolia imported electricity from
the USSR equivalent to 8 percent of total consumption between 1986-90. During
excess supply periods, Mongolia exports electricity to the Soviet Union, but
the amount is small. Average per capita consumption was some 1,375 kWh in
1990, comparable to middle income countries, although about one-fourth of the
population, mainly in the rural are. s remains without electricity. In 1990,
industry accounted for about 90 percent of total consumption and residential
and office use for the rest.
9.        Mongolia's total installed generating capacity is 845 MW but depend-
able capacity is around 800 MW. Electricity is produced by two distinct sys-
tems. The Central Electricity System (CES), consisting of 5 coal-fired ther-
mal plants with a capacity of 690 MW (3 in Ulaanbaatar, 1 in Darhan, and 1 in
Erdenet), accounts for about 80 percent of total installed capacity and
87 percent of electricity generated (3,000 GWh in 1990). It is connected to
the Soviet grid by a 220 kV line to Irkutsk. The CES covers 30 percent of
Mongolia's territory and supplies electricity to the 3 main cities and to 6
aimaks where 50 percent of the population live. The 5 main stations are
Soviet designed, use obsolete technology, and are inefficient. Their esti-
mated gross efficiency is less than 60 percent, with high own use (almost
20 percent) and high transmission and distribution losses (almost 13 percent).
Losses in the heating distribution system are also high, given extensive
above-ground and poorly insulated pipelines. The CES is currently profitable
despite its inefficiencies, and tariffs covered costs amply in 1990.
Increases in 1991, the first since 1960, were short of the general price
doubling but nevertheless brought tariffs to TO.35 for industrial use and
TO.50 for residential use.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
10.       The decentralized electricity production and distribution system
comprises diesel powered generators in 11 aimaks with an installed capacity of
119 MW and a 36 MW coal fired plant at Dornod. In 1990, this system generated
about 400 GWh or 12 percent of domestic production.  All the equipment is of
Soviet and Czech origin. The costs of the decentralized system are higher
and, while these are passed on to industrial users, residential users pay the
same as CES users. The resulting subsidy is the largest in the 1991 budget,
accounting for more than 50 percent of total subsidies.
11.       The collapse of CMEA trade and the economic crisis have seriously
affected the supply of critical spare parts and of coal, leading to energy
shortages, especially during the past year. Since January 1990, forced
outages have resulted in direct losses of 372 million kWh, or $18 million
valued at the Soviet electricity import price, and necessitated lower capacity
utilization.  Average utilization was 61 percent in 1990 and 38 percent during
the first 8 months of 1991.  For the whole year, it is expected to reach
51 percent.  As a result, gross generation declined 3 percent in 1990 and by
about 10 percent during the first 8 months of 1991, compared to the same
period last year.  The decentralized system is also operating at only 50 per-
cent capacity because of shortages of spare parts.  Unless critical spare and
replacement parts and diesel generators are available, electricity supply is
likely to decline further in the coming winter months with serious conse-
quences for industrial production and for the population. Action to ensure
full utilization of existing capacity and elimination of electricity shortages
is the critical short-term issue.
12.       Benefits.  The proposed project will help increase electricity gen-
eration by fuller utilization and maintenance of the existing productive
capacity of the CES and the decentralized electricity generation system. It
finances the most critical spare and replacement parts needed during the next
12 to 18 months. Assuming sufficient coal supplies are provided, this would
help arrest the decline in electricity generation and eliminate energy short-
ages which are constraining production and reducing the welfare of the popula-
tion.
13.       The direct measurable benefits of the proposed project, together
with other donor's contributions, will result largely from two sources.
First, increasing capacity utilization of the CES from an expected 51 percent
for 1991 to 75 percent. This will eliminate forced outages that reduced elec-
tricity output by 125 million kWh in the CES (20 percent of the total avail-
able turbine time) so far this year, production valued at the equivalent of
$6.1 million at its opportunity cost, the import price of Soviet electricity
($0.051 per kWh). Elimination of forced outages and increases in capacity
utilization of the CES will result in an additional gross generation of
726 million kWh, equivalent to $37.04 million. Second, increasing capacity
utilization in the decentralized system from an expected 50 percent for 1991
to 75 percent will generate an additional 200 million kWh of electricity,
valued at the equivalent of $10.2 million, at its opportunity cost. The total
direct benefits of the project will thus be 926 million kWh of electricity
equivalent of $47.6 million during the 12 months following project implementa-
tion (Table 3).



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
14.       The indirect economy-wide benefits of the project will also be sub-
stantial, although difficult to quantify. The availability of sufficient
electricity for the industrial and other productive sectors of the economy
will help increase aggregate output. Disruption of production because of
energy shortages has been one of the important reasons for output losses dur-
ing 1990 and 1991, particularly in industry. For example, the Erdenet copper
mining complex reported that power outages caused about $12 million worth of
output loss in the first half of 1991. Another indirect benefit of the proj-
ect will be reduced imports from the Soviet Union. However, because of uncer-
tainties in the peak demand for electricity, it is difficult to quantify the
amount of savings that will result from reduced import bill.
15.       Costs.  For the economic analysis of the project's electricity sub-
sector component, only those costs (capital and operating) and benefits
directly attributable to the financing of critical imports are considered.
Cost and output prices are in October 1991 prices. Owing to price distortions
and high rate of inflation all calculations have been expressed in US dollars
using international prices. It is assumed that within one month of the imple-
mentation of the project capacity utilization will reach 75 percent and will
be maintained at that level at least for a year. (Some spare and replacement
parts will of course be operative for a longer period.) The economic analysis
therefore covers the twelve months following project implementation. Project
implementation is assumed to start in early 1992 and be completed by
September 30, 1992. Unit operating expenditures in 1992 are assumed to be
$0.034 per kWh for the CES and $0.04 for the decentralized system.
16.       Economic Analysis.  The costs and benefits that are expected to
materialize during the 12 months following the implementation of the project
reflecting above assumptions are presented in Table 3. The direct measurable
benefits of the project are equivalent to $47.6 million.  With operating and
capital costs attributable to the project of $40.2 million, this yields a net
benefit of $7.4 million. This represents a 97 percent return on the invest-
ment of $6.7 million, excluding sunk costs and indirect benefits. This high
return is to be expected since capital costs are relatively low compared to
substantial output increases.
Table 2. ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND CONSUMPTION IN THE'
CENTRAL ENERGY SYSTEM
(Wh)
As                                   Tranemis-  As    Electri-
percentage                              Sion X  percentage  city
Gross  Station  of gross  Net  Electricity  Electricity   Total  Distribu-    of tot&l    Coneuap.
Year   Generation  Use  Ganeration  Generation    Imports  Exports  Supply   tion losses    Supply  tion
A       B    C . B/A   D 0 A-B  E       F    G . D+E-F    H   t - H/G   J - G-H
1980     1,311   258     19.7   1,053     263            1,315    112     a.5    3.204
1981     1.320   260     19,7   1.060     505            1, 65     97     6:2    1,468
1982     1,271   270     21.2    1,001    760     -1.761          110     6.2    1,651
1983     1,479   294     19.9    1.185    679            1,864    123     6.6    1,741
1984     1,958   378     19.3    1,580    410     4      1,986    146     7.4    1,840
1985     2,480   430     17.3   2,050     169     53     2,166    169     7.8    1,997
1986     2,830   460     16.3   2,370     87      38     2,419    234     9.7    2,185
1987     2,991   494     16.5   2,497     72      32     2,537    195     7.8    2,342
1988     3,169   525     16.6   2,644     75      58     2.661    234     8.8    2,427
1989     3,090   519     18.8   2,571     158     77     2,652    242     9.1    2 410
1990     2,966   538     18.1   2,428     228     76     2,580    323    12.5    2:257



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
Table 3: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF BENEFITS--POWER SECTOR
CENTRAL ELECTRICITZ SYSTEM AND AIMAKS
Ulaanbaatar    Darhan Erdenet Aimaks Total
II    III    IV
Installed capacity (MW)                 18    136  460    48    28        119   809
Actual capacity utilization rate (2)
1990                                 63     57   69    63      55      54    61.4/a
1991 (until October)                 43     32   48    34    32        50    381a
1991 (expected)                      55     43   60    50      48      50    51.2I
Forced outage lossees (until October 1991)
(million kWh)                        21.1   82.9 20.8   -       -       -   124.8
Prolect implementation
Projected capacity utilization rate  75      75   75    75      75     75    75
Additional generation (million kWh)  18    248  365    60       35     200   926
Value ($ million)                     0.91   12.64 18.65  3.06   1.78   10.2  47.6
Incremental costs ($ million)         0.61   8.43 12.41  2.04   1.19    8.0  32.6
Project costs (S million)                                                      7.6/b
Total gross benefits                                                            47.6
Total gross costs                                                               40.2
Net incremental benefit                                                          7.4
Return on investment (2)                                                        97.0
la Average
rf Project cost: 3.5 million IBRD, 3.2 million USAID, .89 million Japan.
Coal Component
17.        Coal is the main primary energy source for electricity production
and the most intensely mined natural resource in Mongolia. Coal mining is
also a major industrial activity accounting for about 4 percent of total
industrial value added and providing employment for 4,400 people. CES power
stations and the power station at Dornod are the largest consumers, accounting
for 61 percent of total coal output in 1990; industry and construction
accounted for 13 percent; communal and public services 10 percent; and,
exports to the Soviet Union 7 percent (1990). Coal production increased
steadily during the 1980s; it peaked at 8.6 million tons in 1988, but declined
to 8 million tons in 1989 and 7.2 million tons in 1990. The declining trend
has continued during 1991 and, by end-September, output was only 5 million
tons. For the whole year, it is expected to reach only 6.5 million tons, well
below historical consumption levels. This means that there will be a shortage
of up to 1 million tons during the 1991/92 winter, which will seriously affect
electricity generation.
18.        Mongolia's total coal reserves are estimated to be 100 billion tons,
one of the largest in the world. Most deposits are of relatively poor quality
(2,400-5,100 kc/kg calorific value), ranging from high moisture brown
coal/lignites to relatively high ash bituminous coals. The exception is the
Tavan Tolgoi mine; although currently small (100,000 tons annually), it pro-
duces coking coal at the site of a huge (1 billion tons) coking coal deposit



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
that has a 20 mtpy production potential, 10 million tons of coking coal and
10 million tons of thermal coal. All coal in Mongolia is low in sulphur, less
than 1 percent.
19.       There are 16 coal mines in Mongolia, excluding a new mine (Shive
Ovoo) currently under construction, which is expected to start production in
1992. All mines are owned and operated by the Mongolian Coal Corporation
(MCC) or Hongol Nuurs under the Ministry of Energy. The 14 open pit mines
account for 95 percent of tot.l supply, with the two largest mines at Baga-
Nuur (4 million tons annually) and Sharyn Gol (1.6 million tons annually)
accounting for over 70 percent. None of the remaining 14 mines (only 2 of
which are underground) produces more than 0.5 million tons annually, and the
annual output of 10 local (aimak) mines averages only 10,000 tons. The 2 main
mines supplying the thermal power plants are fully mechanized and the level of
technology is relatively modern. Equipment, all Soviet-made and imported, is
comparable to that in western open pit mines. However, productivity of capi-
tal stock and labor is low, owing to insufficient spare parts, auxiliary
equipment, and bulldozers as well as shortages of explosives and other consum-
ables. In some mines, productivity has declined owing to increasin§ stripping
ratios, most visibly at the Sharyn Gol mine which reached around 5m overbur-
den per ton.
20.       The breakdown of CMEA trade has seriously affected the coal sub-
sector. Since late 1989, procurement and delivery of replacement equipment,
spare parts, explosives, fuels, lubricants and batteries have become increas-
ingly problematic and disrupted coal production, resulting in significant
output losses. The situation worsened in 1991 and, because of increasing
shortages of key imports, the availability and utilization of existing equip-
ment have been declining. Particularly affected is specialized mine transport
equipment (dump trucks and bulldozers), whose availability declined by as much
as 60 percent. In addition, in mid-1991, 13 of 40 (40 ton) and 6 of 25 (27-
ton) dump trucks had exceeded their economically useful life and are inopera-
tive. This is reflected in declining overburden removal, which was 26 percent
lower at Sharyn Gol and 42 percent lower at Baga-Nuur than the planned
amounts.
21.       Production costs in the open pit mines range from T25-75 per ton,
which are extremely low by international standards, reflecting low labor costs
and the degree of mechanization and capitalization. Following the June 1991
devaluation, imported material and labor costs will probably increase,
although not pro rata, and will remain very low by international standards.
Coal prices range from T110-204 per ton, depending upon the calorific value,
which is well below international levels and the opportunity cost of imported
coal. However, this price range covers production costs and all open pit
mines are financially viable, except for Sharyn Gol which is marginal at pre-
sent prices. The Nailakh underground mine with production costs in excess of
T300 per ton is not viable but, because its reserves are nearing exhaustion,
will continue to be subsidized in order to minimize the socioeconomic conse-
quences of closure.
22.       Given the importance of coal to Mongolia's economy, a balanced stra-
tegy will have to be developed. Equipment and operations at existing mines



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
need rehabilitation for continued economic exploitation. On the other hand,
exploitation of new mines may need rail links and, if so, their costs will
have to be included in their economic analysis.
23.       Costs.  NFE and MCC have prepared estimates of the materials and
equipment needed to redress this situation. Based on an annual production
level of 8 million tons, the cost of equipment, spare parts and consumable
materials required by all mines for the next 3-6 months, for the 9-month
period through mid-1992 and for the 21 month period through mid-1993 range
from $26-45 million. To meet the most critical needs of the subsector for the
winter of 1992 the Government is using American aid ($1.3 million) and
Japanese aid ($5 million). The proposed credit ($7.4 million) will help meet
the urgent production-related needs of the coal mines, once imports financed
by other donors have coped with immediate requirements for the coming winter.
24.       Benefits.  The proposed project will finance part of the coal mines'
estimated needs for 1992 to restore production at the major mines, Baga-Nuur
and Sharyn Gol. Critical imports for these mines will increase capacity uti-
lization and equipment availability and therefore help maintain coal excava-
tion, overburden removal and coal transport at historical levels. It will
thus contribute to exploitation of the existing productive capacity and sig-
nificant reduction of fuel shortages currently experienced by the thermal
power stations of the CES. The direct benefits of the proposed project,
together with other donor's contributions, will be increased coal production
of 700,000 to 1 million tons. This will restore coal output to at least its
1990 level (7.2 million tons) during the twelve-month period following project
implementation. Because reliable detailed production cost data are unavail-
able, no rate of return has been calculated.



Table 3:  NIRISG OPERATIONS PROVIDED BY COAL HNES FOR LAST   }   YE&RS (COAL SUPPLY)
1988                                    1989                                    1990                                  191(1-?)
Meand      Supply       DltZer.uce      Dsuand     bupply      Ditlerenc*       Demand      Supply    Dviter-nce         Demand     H upply    D7terermce
tale of mines                                               (+/-)                                 (+4/)                                   t+l-)                (+/-)
Nalsib                            723.0       538.7       -184.3          692.2      434.5       -257.7           410.0       234.9       -175.1           148.0      154.1          +6.1
Sbaryn Gel                      2,050.0    2,053.0          +3.0        1,950.0    1,900.2        -49.8         1,700.0    1.474.8        -225.2         1,025.0      915.4        -109.6
TTablin Gobi                       71.0        72.3         +1.3           61.0       57.5         -3.5            53.0        37.8        -15.2            22.0       40.6         +18.6
Aduun Cbuluun                     600.0      612.9         +12.9          535.0      536.1         +1.1           421.0       572.2        +91.2           330.0      299.5         -30.5
Saiban-ovoo                        29.0        29.0                        26.0       26.0                         17.0         9.2         -7.8            13.0       27.5         +14.5
Talbulaz                          105.0       111.2         +6.2          110.0      110.1         +0.1            95.0        95.5         +0.5            58.5       58.0           0.5
Nuuret lotgor                     150.0       180.5        430.5          168.0      192.0        +24.0           195.0       198.4         +3.4           114.0      114.5          +0.5
Baian Teeg                        225.0       230.1         +5.1          240.0      240.3         +0.3           240.0       226.1        -13.9           153.8      145.2          -8.6
Hsrtarvagtai                      150.0       192.0        +42.0          205.0      219.7        +14.7           235.0       213.0        -22.0           169.0      111.0         -58.0
Dzeegt                             80.0        86.7         +6.7           90.0       91.2         +1.2            80.0        72.2         -7.8            56.0       68.0         +62.0
Tavantolgoi                       125.0       136.3        +11.3          137.0      137.3         +0.3           115.0       115.0                         90.2       98.6          +3.4
nogingol                          124.0       124.8         -0.8          135.0      127.9         -7.1            126.0      103.5        -22.5            74.0       92.9         +18.9
Bushoot                            78.0        60.7        -17.3           60.0       65.4         +5.4            60.0        61.5         +1.5            47.0       45.7          -1.3
Cheadgantal                       110.0       113.0         +3.0          120.0      120.5         +0.5           120.0        95.7        -24.3            80.0       69.1         -10.9
Baganuur                        4,000.0    4,053.0         +53.0        3,785.8    3,785.8                      4,070.7    3,700.6        -370.1         2,714.0    2.729.9         +15.9
Fiost                                                                                                                                                       16.0       13.1          -2.9
Sbive*-ovoc1
Total                     8,630.0    8,594.8          -35.2       8,315.0    8,044.5        -270.5         7,937.7    7,156.1        -781.6        5,110.9    4,983.5       -127.11
1988                                   1989                                  1990                        1991 (end of Septmber)        Gross
Name of mines                  klanned    Actual    Ditterence            1           2            3           1            2           3                       4      3      1    (th. in')
Nalaib                         4,430.0   3,114.0    -1,336.0        3.900.0     2,432.0    -1,468.0      2,806.0     4,327.5    +1,521.0      3,070.0      1,680.0    -1,390.0   -2,670.0             0"
Sharyn Gol                    10.600.0    1,087.8       4212.8    10,700.0    10,700.0          +2.1    10,000.0     7.391.9   -2,608.1       7.655.0      4,906.6    -2,748.4   -5.141 6
Tevesbin Gobi                     160.0      160.0                    140.0       137.3         -2.7        97.0        72.2        -24.8                                             -27.9
Aduun Chuluun                  1,000.0    1,002.8         +2.8        790.0       793.3         +3.3       655.0       634.0        -21.0       545.0        521.0       -24.0         38.9
Saihau-ovoo                      390.0       304.5       -85.5        370.0       381.0       +11.0        370.0       599.0        +29.0                                             -46.0
Talbulag                         150.0       154.8        +4.8        160.0       162.9         +2.9       118.0       118.0                    137.0        112.3       -24.7        -17.0
Nuurst eotgor                    215.0      285.5        +70.5        250.0       253.4         +3.4       280.0       282.9         +2.9       250.0        221.4       +23.6        -53.2
BaIan Teeg                       280.0      260.6        -19.4        340.0       352.9        +12.9       420.0       339.4        -80.6       360.0        197.2      -167.8       -249.9
Hartarvagata±                     50.0        50.2        +0.2         50.0        50.0                     40.0        40.0                     30.0         13.0       -17.0        -16.8
Dseegt                           140.0       142.3        +2.3        160.0       164.0         +4.0       170.0       135.1        -34.9       137.5        119.3       -18.2        -46.8
Tavantolgoi                       120.0      120.4        +0.4        120.0       136.6        +16.6       150.0        150.8        +0.8       140.9        102.7       -38.2        -20.4
Eushoot                           140.0      140.1        +0.1        140.0       146.7         +6.7       140.0        122.3       -17.7       105.0         75.8       -29.2        -40.1
Cbandgantal                       140.0      125.1       -14.9        200.0       156.8        -43.2       200.0         76.0      -124.0       140.0         74.4       -65.6       -247.7
Bagantuur                      7,000.0   7,063.8         +63.8     8,000.0      8,113.2      +113.2    10,478.0      61,56.3    -4,321.7      8,189.0      5,503.2   -2,685.5       6,830.5
Einst                                                                                                                                            49.0         45.9        -3.1         -3.1
Shivee-ovoo
Mogoingol                        350.0       351.1        +1.5        600.0       307.2      -292.8        670.0       266.5       -403.5       472.0        149.5      -322.5   -1,017.3
Total                    20,390.0  20,616.4        +226.4    21,650.0    21,476.4       -173.6    23,418.0    15,809.8    -7,60S.2    18,210.4    12,048.0        6,162.4   -13,717.8
Sources Ministry of Energy.
ID.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11
Transport lB9Eonp mnt
25.       Despite rapid industrial development, Mongolia's transport infra-
structure remains seriously inadequate. This hinders the flow of factors of
production and distribution, the availability of commodities and the develop-
ment of internal markets. It is also likely to hamper domestic and foreign
private investment, once the country recovers from its present crisis. Given
the size of the country and its widely-spread resources (including popula-
tion), the development of transport and communications will be a challenging
and difficult task. The transport sector grew relatively rapidly during the
1990s, averaging 9.5 percent annually. In 1990, it accounted for 10 percent
of GDP and employed about 48,000 people.
26.       Ulaanbaatar, the capital., is the main generator of traffic; the
corridor north to the USSR border is the most intensively used. Darhan, the
second largest city, is about half way along this corridor, at the junction
with a branch to the west that serves the third largest city, Erdenet. These
three cities account for about 35 percent of the population and most indus-
trial activity. Population densities in the rest of the country are very low,
averaging less than one person per km . Outside this main corridor and its
extension to the southern border with China, the transport network is rudimen-
tary, comprising low standard roads, some navigable rivers, one rail line to
the USSR in the northeast, and a number of low standard airports. Personal
mobility by modern means is low. Many individual trips in the countryside are
on horseback; although motorized road transport is also used, no good records
are available. Total inter-city travel is under 1,000 km per person annually;
this compares to 550 km 'n China and 6,000 km in Japan. Freight intensity is
high in the areas served by the main rail line, and low elsewhere.   Some
75 percent of the country's freight moves by rail. Almost half comprises
dcnmestic coal, most of it to the main power plants in Ulaanbaatar. Foreign
trade accounts for most of the balance of rail traffic, comprising imports of
consumer and industrial goods and fuel and exports of copper concentrate and
manufactured or semiprocessed animal goods. Roads carry the remaining 25 per-
cent of freight, of which more than half is construction materials. Average
freight in Mongolia is about 3,400 ton/km per person annually, compared to
1,000 in China, 3,700 in Japan, and over 15,000 in the USSR.
Railways
27.       The railway has some 1,800 km of track and an additional 200 km of
shunt-lines and side tracks. The gauge is the same as in the USSR, but wider
than in China. Gradients up to 2 percent and many bends limit train weight
and speed. Wooden sleepers are used but, because they are not chemically
treated, have to be replaced every 6-7 years. Signalling and telecommunica-
tions systems are insufficient. The rolling stock comprises Soviet-made loco-
motives and wagons. Repairs used to be undertaken in USSR facilities but are
now carried out in two ill-equipped depots in Mongolia; spare parts and fuels,
imported from the USSR, are in short supply. In 1990, the railways trans-
ported 14.5 million tons and 2.5 million passengers, which is below its capac-
ity. Domestic traffic accounts for 8 million tons, of which 80 percent is
coal, mainly for the power stations. Trade with the USSR accounted for 6 mil-
lion tons, exports for 2.5 million tons and imports for 3.5 million tons.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12
Transit traffic was about 1 million tons, one-third of the level in the mid-
1980s, and is expected to be about 100,000 tons in 1991. In early 1991, traf-
fic was only about 70 percent of 1990 levels. The railway is a Mongolia-USSR
joint venture with equal ownership. It was built by Soviet construction orga-
nizations and financed with USSR lo&ns. It has regularly shown an operating
profit; however, most profits were distributed to the 16,000 employees provid-
ing an average 25 percent wage supplement in the form of housing, schooling
and medical allowances.
28.       Despite its large territory, Mongolia has only 42,000 km of main
roads--an average 27 m per km2__of which only 1,300 km are paved and most in
poor condition. State roads, connecting the aimak centers, account for about
10,000 km. In the past, 50-60 km were added to the main network annually,
half the road budget; the othar half was used for road maintenance. Standards
are low due to a shortage of resources and of mechanized methods, and poor
initial construction. Roads are the responsibility of the State Roads Corpo-
ration and its agencies in each aimak and their funding comes partly from a
tax on the sale of fuel products. Traffic volumes are light, increasing near
the main cities. It is estimated that 70 percent of freight tonnage is car-
ried by road, although only 25 percent in terms of ton km. The motorized
vehicle fleet comprises 40,000 units, of which 27,000 trucks, 2,500 buses,
6,000 cars, and 4,000 agricultural vehicles, mainly tractors. There are also
more than 10,000 trailers. Some 70 percent of the fleet is more than 6 years
old; about half the trucks have run more than 500,000 km. Most trucks are 5-
ton vehicles and fuel inefficient. Vehicle shortages have recently been
aggravated by lack of spares, tires, and batteries and about 30 percent of the
bus and truck fleet is currently inoperative.
Air TransDort
29.       With a vast territory and low population densities that cannot jus-
tify high standard surface networks, long distance passenger transport within
Mongolia is mainly undertaken by air. The number of passengers has grown at
about 5-6 percent per year over the last 15 years. In 1990, about 774,000
passengers were carried an average distance of 700 km. Air cargo has been
decreasing in the last three years a'long with declining trade volumes (both
foreign and domestic) and was less than 11,000 tons in 1990, of which almost
half was luggage and mail.
30.       Benefits.  The finarcing of imported tires, batteries, bitumen, and
spare and replacement parts for road maintenance equipment will address the
most pressing short-term problems of the sector, problems that affect its
functioning and reduce its support to the national economy. The financing of
bitumen and spare and replacemant parts for the road maintenance equipment
will allow Mongolia to maintain and therefore preserve 194 km of main;
heavily-trafficked roads. This will improve road transport, reducing mainte-
nance cost, downtime, transport time and fuel consumption. Tires and batter-
ies will put the 30 percent of the buses and trucks that are presently inac-
tive back into operation. This will increase the availability, and hence the
capacity utilization, of the existing land transport vehicle fleet, and thus
allow Mongolia to reap the benefits of its past investment in the sector.
With increased availability of buses and trucks, the flow of factors of pro-



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 13
duction for the production sectors and the delivery of goods and commodities
for consumers will significantly improve, although it is difficult to quantify
the direct benefits. However, as 70 percent of the absolute total freight
tonnage is trucked, the importance and benefits of increased availability of
trucks to the rest of the economy cannot be overemphasized. There are likely
to be substantial secondary income effects, particularly as the authorities
deregulate road transport during 1Q92.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Summary Terms of Reference for Reform-Oriented Studies
1.        To help the authorities define the details of Mongolia's medium-term
development and reform policies, the government has agreed that responsible
ministries and agencies will undertake modest reform-oriented studies during
1992. They will be the basis for recommendations on government policy, to be
carried out over the 1992-95 period, for the restructuring and reform o poli-
cies and institutions, to permit the economic and rapid development of
Mongolia's substantial resources through the mobilization of local and foreign
talents and funds. Particular attention will be paid, where appropriate, to
the role of the private sector, enabling policy and action by government to
support nonstate development, and where appropriate, environmental and social
aspects of investment and public policy in each sector.
2.        Terms of reference, including agency responsibility and staffihg,
international support required, and the nature interim reports to guide the
preparation of 1993 reform action, would be agreed with the World Bank during
February 1992. All studies would be completed by December 31, 1992, at the
latest. IDA technical staff would help prepare the TOR, and the modest
international expertise required to support the Mongolian study team would be
financed under the studies component of the IDA Technical Assistance Project.
3.        Energy Assessment.  Mongolia depends on electric power produced from
coal for the bulk of its energy consumption, including cogeneration of heat in
Ulaanbaatar and other urban centers. It also imports electric power from the
Russian grid, in exchange for bartered goods and, recently, payments in con-
vertible currency. Mongolia's power plants are based on antiquated Soviet
technology, tnodels that does not meet current environmental standards and
which are inefficient in their use of coal and in the energy production pro-
cess. The dispersion of Mongolia's population also imposes special require-
ments for provision of electric power to the aimaks, which must be served by
diesel generators not connected to the national grid. United States and
Japanese technical assistance funds have been already allocated to analyze the
most urgent short-term rehabilitation needs of the two main power plants in
Ulaanbaatar and Dakhran; these studies are expected to be completed in mid-
1992. USAID and the US Department of Energy have been approached to help the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE) and the Central Electricity System (CES, a
paraotatal enterprise) review a power master plan completed by USSR and
Mongolian engineers in early 1991. For the medium and longer term, however,
an energy asseosment study is required. Its goals would be to: investigate
the pricing, energy efficiency and environmental issues that should define the
power system's longer-term investment priorities; and, taking both economic
and technical factors into account, outline pricing, organizational and regu-
latory principles that should guide the restructuring of the electric power
sector as part of Mongolia's privatization and public sector reform program.
MFE and its Energy Policy Council, with the involvement of the Centralized



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Electricity System and the Ministry of National Development, would undertake
the study. Terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be agreed by end-
February 1992, and the overall study and recommendations would be completed by
December 31, 1992. Phasing and interim results of study will be agreed with
the TOR.
4.        Coal Pricing.  For the medium and longer term, a minerals and mining
sector study, to be undertaken during 1992 under the IDA Technical Assistance
Project, will focus mainly on environsmentally appropriate and economically
competitive strategies for the development of all Mongolia's mineral
resources, including coal. Meanwhile, given the importance of coal, and its
cost, to the country's electric power sector, it will be important to proceed
with pricing reforms as soon as possible. To formulate these pricing reforms,
the government (likely MFE, MND and the coal mines/coal mine holding company
Noors) would undertake a coal production cost and pricing study, to be
completed by December 31, 1992.
5.        Petroleum Products.  After dealing with the current short-term cri-
sis, the government will need to develop a strategy to meet the country's
increasing demand for petroleum products, once economic growth has resumed.
Assuming a 5 percent annual increase in consumption, Mongolia would require
about 1.1 million tons of petroleum products annually by the year 2000. To
meet those needs, the Petroleum Import and Supply Corporation (PISC) would
need to prepare medium- and long-term market forecasts for various petroleum
products and develop a procurement strategy for obtaining them from the world
market using international commercial practices. In addition, it would need
to consider how gradually to diversify sources of supply for different types
of petroleum products (fuel and lubricants), taking into account Mongolia's
unique transportation constraints, including the potential for improved trans-
shipment through China. Finally, PISC or its successor/replacement organiza-
tion(s) would need to strengthen Mongolia's existing petroleum products stor-
age and distribution infrastructure and investigate the potential for private
involvement in petroleum distribution and retailing (including foreign petro-
leum companies). To address these issues, PISC, with the assistance of MFE,
MND and MTI's Market Research Institute would undertake a petroleum products
demand, supply and procurement study.
6.        Agr lural Pricing and Marketing.  Aside from livestock raising
and small family vegetable farming near Ulaanbaatar, state agencies control
all agricultural production. Agricultural inputs are distributed through a
state trading organization to state agricultural farms and state-controlled
cooperatives. Agricultural output is similarly marketed almost exclusively
through official agencies. Agroprocessing (slaughterhouses, milk factories,
grain and flour mills) are also owned by the state, and some (e.g., Mongolia's
sole meat processing factory in Ulaanbaatar) are at a scale of operation which
raises doubts as to their econornic and financial viability. State clhannels
aloo control transport of livestock and food products, and until recently, all
food retailing.   Under the medium-term reform program, the authorities intend
that the state farms will be privatized, private herding and farming will be
encouraged, marketing of fertilizer and other inputs and processing, trans-
port, distribution and sale (for both domestic and export markets) of agricul-
tural products will be done by the nonstate sector.  Despite the very long



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
tradition of livestock raising, seventy years of collectivized agriculture
have left Mongolia's rural producers inexperienced in nonstate chennele of
food production and marketing. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry
of Trade and Industry would prepare an actinn program for the privatization of
agricultural input supply and distribution, and agricultural product (includ-
ing food) marketing. It would include importing of fertilizer, equipment and
other supplies not avzilable in Mongolia, as well as organization of coopera-
tives and other producer organizatioxs for agroprocessing, food marketing,
transport and wholesaling.
7.        Reorientation of Trade.  As part of its medium-term reform program,
the government attaches high priority to the expansion, reorientation and
diversification of Mongolia's trade, with the nonstate sector progressively
taking up responsibility for imports and exports. Although the vast majority
of Mongolia's imports will continue in the short term to be sourced in the
Soviet Union under barter agreements similar to the arrangements that
accounted for virtually all of Mongolia's trade in the past, imports financed
by the proposed IDA Credit, ADB's critical imports operation, and grant aid
from the United States, Japan and other bilaterals, are sharply reorienting
Mongolia's public sector imports during 1991 and 1992. A small part of this
donor assistance will be used to import urgent spare parts available only from
the original suppliers in the Soviet Union (generally in the Russian
Republic), but the largest share of goods, spare parts and other materials
will come from new sources. Much of it will be transhipped through China from
the port of Tianjin. State trading organizations and government departments
(e.g., such as MTI's Foreign Trade Department in the case of the proposed
Economic Rehabilitation Project) will handle imports in the short term. But
fairly soon and certainly over the medium term, the government wishes the
private sector to take over the responsibility for external trade. This is
likely the most efficient way, as well, to promote export of products to the
non-CMEA area. But such a shift implies greater knowledge of foreign markets
and careful attention to issues of quality and marketing. Before December 31,
1992 MTI's Market Research Institute and MND would therefore complete a study
of trade liberalization, with particular reference to export promotion and
private sector involvement. The study would examine, inter alia, access to
foreign exchange and trade finance, and customs inspection, valuatior and duty
collection procedures, on the import side, and market reconnaissance, quality
control and marketing arrangements for export promotion. It would consider
phyoical infrastructure needs, including transhipment facilities at Tianjin
and the Mongolia's borders with the Soviet Union and China, and their
capacity. It would also consider approaches that would make the existing
foreign trade organizations responsive to market conditions including competi-
tio)n from private traders, with a view to their eventual restructuring (clo-
sure, restructuring and privatization) as part of the government's divestment
and privatization program.



57    P    -    .   -   ,   ....  .  _  _,,,,. _ =_ __ 13RD ?3405~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 240
U.S.S.R.                                                                                                              Bl -oU.SSR..-_
t7l  -   ULAANGOMA3 .;kr                                              ~                         Dtt'                    ^W                                                                                                     _
_< t Ho d obu~~16We/   ARN''>  D$ ~
k    t' . - s !, 'I { ,1',    ?   / -     lOdHe7                                     , 5               E ~~~~~~~~un910 BULGAN    DA HN0-tG                                              o                             Gqnzo1                                         CHINA
+   HOVDi-                  J           _>  ~~~~~~~~DW9\HAN   , e                                                           dn29 -l Caeaeov7--d°° 0/                                                                                               '4
\   g r';. 4:1 s     '            ChoodroolO    ULIASTAY                            1ARHAN<X B                                                  MTAY                        HENTIY                 W                             . RN            TmobiB                           Uo
dB + M7d 6 6thb5 0c70n 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7°n DrTSETSERLEG                                                                                         r                                   Z D/5rr0NlR7. D.....*oB.. a.B6N_DO'11010.H77_ 
& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~P                                                                                                                                                            RHAAPiATY   onus     s  7rotrl °\%         Z-+FnnrG1h   r 
CHIN   (   lar   4            u nf1>         RJ>SOBOAO     ' 7°bSSr       3       AVAYEER(S                                (L7  dt         usoo                                                  otu79DUwEnrTbn
CHINA                                                                                                                                               °                                   DCRNOYEINH                                              MONOLI
\ O | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAIJ^NDZADGAD  : d1.e0SLCETW/VIAS
t                         BoFnndoOw      3                                                                                              >3  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AlhkAK CAP17ALS
slOMlEl   0      80 10 20</tD:                                                                                                     (mN()G0131                                 gl                                  /FAIR-W'EA7HER ROADS, TRACKS OR TRAILS
mflrS     U    50        100        I 5(      200                                                                        _  D            E            S                                                                                             -RAILKOADS ROS5FAEAD
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~AlD.AK BO JNDARIES
... x .... - . . > .^B ... > r>, . INlERNAlIONAL BOUI4DARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,17RNlIOAtBOUDAIE
,., ,.; ., . ,. , ,, >,, ,f ,, ,  ;,t, t h , ..................  (, s s E t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     NVEM  R 99



