Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13762-MOG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
DECEMBER 12, 1994
Country Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tugriks
$1.00 = Tug 40 (September 1991)
$1.00 = Tug 150 (April 1993)
Floating exchange rate:
$1.00 = Tug 400 (May 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   Asian Development Bank
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DAF   Delivered-at-frontier
ERC    Economic Rehabilitation Credit
FTC    Foreign Trade Corporation
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
METS Economic Transition Support Credit
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MTI   Ministry of Trade and Industry
PIC    Petroleum Import Concern
TAC   Technical Assistance Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface .............................................
Evaluation Summary  .             .....................................
PART I: PROJECT EMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives  . .................................. 1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives  .........................   3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...                 ....   5
D. Project Sustainability   .................................   6
E. IDA Performance   ...................................   6
F. Borrower Performance  ................................   7
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................   7
H. Future Operation  ..........                 ..........................   8
I.  Key Lessons Learned  .................................   8
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES                  ..........................                               9
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ..............                                            9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............                                        11
Table 3:   Project Timetable ............. ................  12
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ....   13
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......                 ........  14
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..... ..                ..........  14
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ........            ..       .............  15
Table 8a: Project Costs          ..............            .................  16
Table 8b: Project Financing          .............           ................  16
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ........              ..      ............  17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants  ........              ..       .............  18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....                   ......  19
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ....... ..                  ............  20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions  ........               ..       .............  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Xofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1: Aide Memoire (July 27, 1994) ......................  22
ANNEX 2: Project Review from  the Borrower's Perspective ....                 .......  26
1. Background  .............................. 26
2. IDA Performance  ..........................  26
3. Borrower's Performance  ......................  27
4. Relationship between IDA and the Borrower ...               .......  27
5. Description of Execution of Subprojects Financed
from  Credit Proceeds  ....................... 28
6. Conclusions and Lessons Learned   ................ 30
MAP: IBRD No. 26450



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic
Rehabilitation Credit in Mongolia for which Credit 2320-MOG in the amount of $30
million/SDR 22.2 million was approved on December 19, 1991 and made effective on
February 20, 1992.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1994, twelve months beyond the date
originally envisaged, June 30, 1993. Final disbursement took place on November 22, 1994.
A balance of $139,637/SDR 99,740 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Natasha Beschorner and Hongjoo Hahm, China and
Mongolia Country Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by
Mr. Zafer Ecevit, Division Chief, and Mr. Yo Kimura, Project Advisor. The Borrower
provided comments which are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/ completion
mission on July 19-August 5, 1994. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower, internal IDA memoranda and interviews with IDA and Borrower staff involved in
project implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
commenting on the draft ICR, preparing an evaluation of the project's execution and
implementation, and by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.          In 1991, Mongolia experienced enormous supply shocks caused by a
combination of internal and external factors. These included worsening terms of trade,
disruption in the flow of essential imports from and collapse of traditional export markets
in the former Soviet Union and members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
(CMEA), and the virtual termination of Soviet aid which had reached 30 percent of GDP
during the 1980s. These external factors were responsible for a fall in real GDP of
9.9 percent for 1991. Against this background, the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC),
the first Bank Group operation in Mongolia, was designed primarily to finance critical
imports for priority sectors of the economy, agriculture, energy (coal mining, petroleum
products and power operation) and transport to maintain production in each sector during
1992 and the first six months of 1993. Through economywide effects, the project also
aimed to help Mongolia sustain its overall production and employment level. A secondary
objective was to familiarize Mongolian institutions with intemational procurement and
financial procedures and thereby facilitate diversification of trade. Based on the severe
constraints facing the Borrower at the time, the project's scope and timing were
appropriate. The implementing agency was the Foreign Trade Department (now the
Department of International Trade and Cooperation) in the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI) of Mongolia.
2.          Special arrangements were made for procurement and disbursement. First,
given Mongolia's high proportion (80 percent) of external trade with the Commonwealth
of Independent States (CIS), it was agreed, on an exceptional basis, to disburse 25 percent
of the Credit proceeds, up to $7 million, against goods and spare parts and equipment
obtainable only from the CIS and former CMEA countries, under negotiated direct
purchase contracts. The remaining project-financed goods and services would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines. Second, in order to facilitate disbursements for purchasing directly contracted
goods and supplies from the CIS, a $6 million Special Account facility was set up in
Midland Bank, UK (see para. 14). Finally, the project required end-users of imported
goods to purchase project-financed imports at the equivalent of delivered-at-frontier (DAF)



- 111 -
cost in local currency (Tugriks) at the official rate of exchange. These counterpart funds
were transferred directly into the government budget (see para. 3).
3.          The emergency balance of payments assistance provided by the ERC was
complementary to the IMF's Standby Facility and other donor assistance. The ERC was
therefore part of a broad package of macroeconomic and institutional development support
from the international donor community. The ERC did not include policy conditionalities;
policy dialogue was maintained through IDA's continuing economic and sector work.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.          The ERC was carried out against a background of economic crisis.
Nevertheless, it brought about positive results by supplying urgently needed inputs and
contributed to the diversification of Mongolia's trade, therefore achieving its primary
objectives.  Maintaining the supply of critical inputs served to slow the decline in
productivity and output in Mongolia's priority sectors, particularly in the case of coal
mining (see para. 9). Moreover, the quality of inputs from nontraditional suppliers was
considerably improved; this had an important demonstration effect in the sectors
concerned. In addition, project implementation resulted in the development of a greatly
improved import and procurement management system within MTI (see para. 10).
5.         The original credit amount was SDR 22.2 million, equivalent to $30 million.
Actual foreign exchange costs, at the time of project completion,were $31.4 million of
which $30.17 million were spent on imported goods and $781,600 on consultancy services.
Local costs totalled the equivalent of $8.8 million, including $ 7.8 million equivalent for
customs duties and sales tax, and $1 million equivalent for internal transport and handling
charges. Thus the total project cost was $40.2 million, compared with the original
estimate of $37.95 million. The final disbursement was made on November 22, 1994, 17
months after the original closing date of June 30, 1993. The project proceeded on schedule
throughout the early stages of the cycle, but procurement delays required extension of the
closing date first to December 31, 1993 and finally to June 30, 1994.
6.          The principal factors responsible for the delays were (a) problems in
securing timely delivery of critical spare parts for agricultural and mining equipment, and
bitumen for the transport sector, from direct contract CIS suppliers in the light of political
and economic turmoil in the CIS (see para. 13); (b) misunderstandings between the
Borrower and CIS suppliers and financial institutions over the concept and operation of the
Special Account (see para. 14); and (c) delays in the sale and distribution of certain
imports to end-users, attributable to successive devaluations of the Tugrik and to price
distortions which affected the ability of end-users to purchase the imported goods at market
prices. This in turn delayed the transfer of counterpart funds to the government budget
(see para. 15).
7.          A great deal of preparatory work was done, particularly on the development
of a detailed procurement timetable, given IDA's limited experience in transactions with
the CIS and the almost total lack of commercial links between Mongolia and non-CMEA



- iv -
states. IDA staff continuity was maintained during preparation, appraisal and supervision.
In view of the Borrower's limited experience with procurement procedures, a specialized
procurement support and logistics advisor was appointed within MTI. This appointment
was highly effective in ensuring adherence to the procurement plan and thereby facilitating
rapid disbursement. When implementation delays occurred, IDA demonstrated flexibility
both in agreeing to two extensions of the loan closing date and in doubling the original
allocation to the Special Account, at the request of the Borrower, to ensure delivery of
essential imports.  Moreover, IDA  did not insist on prompt compliance with the
counterpart fund requirement when delays occurred in end-user distribution and counterpart
fund transfers. This was considered the most pragmatic approach in the context of a
difficult economic transition period, given the overriding objective of emergency assistance
and the very real risks of further deterioration in the priority sectors (see para. 19).
Cooperation between the Borrower and IDA was good. The quality of communication,
particularly the provision of relevant documentation by the Borrower, was satisfactory.
Some of the confusion arising over the operation of the Special Account might have been
resolved had the Borrower counterparts and CIS suppliers sought clarification at an earlier
stage on commitment procedures (see para. 14). Borrower compliance with credit
covenants was satisfactory.
8.          The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The ERC achieved its primary
objectives and contributed to the development of the various sectors concerned within the
overall context of Mongolia's economic stabilization program.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.          Four main lessons emerge from IDA's experience with the ERC. First,
rapid disbursement is greatly facilitated by the development of a well-prepared procurement
timetable and monitoring system and the appointment of procurement advisors prior to
negotiations and Board preparation. Regular monitoring allowed schedule modifications
to be made where necessary. Second, a project of this type can have valuable long-term
benefits if attention is paid in design and implementation to developing the Borrower's
institutional capacity. Third, emergency assistance of this nature is most effective when
combined with donor coordination to address broader macroeconomic and sectoral
concerns.  Finally, the objectives of counterpart fund management and emergency
assistance are difficult to reconcile in transitional economies where ability to pay is
constrained by adjustment processes. In future operations it will be advisable to develop
mechanisms for working more closely with end-users and explore the role of financial
intermediaries and the private sector in this regard. These lessons have been incorporated
into the follow-up Economic Transition Support Credit (METS) (2551-MOG). The METS
focuses on the mining and transport sectors, but also places greater emphasis at the outset
on policy issues, notably pricing/tariff reforms to improve cash flows for end-users and
improved management of public expenditures using already allocated budgetary funds for
financing counterpart funds. In addition, the petroleum study financed under the ERC is
being used in the preparation of the FY96 Petroleum Transshipment Project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJEcT OBJECMIVES
1.         In 1991, Mongolia experienced enormous supply shocks caused by a
combination of internal and external factors. These included: worsening terms of trade,
disruption in the flow of essential imports from and collapse of traditional export markets
in the countries of the former Soviet Union and members of the Council for Mutual
Economic Assistance (CMEA), Mongolia's principal trading partners. The most severe
external shock was the virtual termination of Soviet aid which had reached 30 percent of
GDP during the 1980s. These factors resulted in a fall in real GDP of 9.9 percent for
1991, 7.6 percent in 1992 and 1.3 percent in 1993. Against this background, and
following internal political reforms in the early 1990s, a newly elected coalition
government had embarked on a three-year program of economic stabilization and
transformation to a market economy in 1991. The principal objectives were private sector
development and trade diversification and, ultimately, resumption of modest economic
growth to ensure increases in output and improved medium-term living standards. To this
end the government introduced significant price, financial sector and fiscal reforms
beginning in 1991; at the same time a number of preliminary institutional, legal and
regulatory changes were enacted in order to expand the scope of market transactions and
private economic activities.
2.          The Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC), the first Bank Group operation
in Mongolia, was designed primarily to provide emergency financing for critical imports
and thereby alleviate bottlenecks resulting from foreign exchange shortages in the
agriculture, energy (coal mining, petroleum products and electric power generation) and
transport sectors. These sectors had been declining continually over the previous 21
months because of the lack of sufficient foreign exchange to purchase spares and
replacements. The project financed 100 percent of foreign exchange costs for the import
of equipment, materials, spare parts, vehicles and other essential inputs. The ERC was
considered a first step in the government's economic reform program to help rehabilitate,
maintain and operate priority economic sectors; to check further serious deterioration in
the country's economic infrastructure; and help ensure the country's output performance.
The project aimed to increase and maintain capacity utilization and hence increase
production in each sector during 1992 and the first six months of 1993 and, through
economywide effects, help Mongolia sustain its overall production and employment levels.



- 2 -
The sectors and items financed were selected on the basis of an overall assessment of
critical import requirements, taking into account several qualitative criteria:  (a) the
economy's structural and sectoral priorities; (b) Mongolia's need to reduce its dependence
on the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) for goods available elsewhere and
thereby diversify its external trade; (c) the need for quick action in vulnerable sectors of
the economy; and (d) transportational and logistical constraints.
3.          A secondary objective was to enable Mongolian institutions to become
familiar with international trade and procurement procedures. The project was designed
to introduce procedures related to international competitive bidding and international
financial transactions and thereby facilitate diversification of trade. Furthermore, in order
to complement the government's program of distribution system reforms, the project
required end-users of imported goods to purchase project-financed imports at the equivalent
of delivered-at-frontier (DAF) cost in local currency (Tugriks) at the official rate of
exchange plus customs duties and local handling charges. It was originally expected that
these counterpart funds would be transferred via line ministries to the implementing
agency, the Ministry of Trade and Industry and thence to the Ministry of Finance and
directly into the budget. The objectives of establishing counterpart funds were to develop
financial and fiscal discipline among end-users by increasing their exposure to market
mechanisms; and to generate counterpart fund revenues for the government budget.
4.          The objectives of emergency balance of payments assistance was clearly
stated. The ERC was considered part of an immediate response by the international donor
community to the country's short-term economic crisis. The quick disbursing and balance
of payments type assistance complemented the IMF's Standby Facility and the cash and
commodity assistance committed by other donors: the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
Germany, Japan, Korea and the United States. The ERC therefore supported a broader
package of macroeconomic and sectoral development, financial objectives and institutional
capacity-building. It did not include policy conditionalities; policy dialogue was maintained
through IDA's continuing economic and sector work. Based on the severe constraints
facing the Borrower at the time, the project's scope and timing were appropriate.
5.          The implementing agency in Mongolia was the Foreign Trade Department
(now known as the Department of International Trade and Cooperation) in the Ministry of
Trade and Industry (MTI). Its principal concerns were Mongolia's lack of experience with
international procurement or banking practices and lack of familiarity with IDA
procedures. Moreover, MTI had very limited experience in convertible currency trade
with non-CMEA countries. Its other major concern was logistical and transport difficulties
for the delivery of imports. Given Mongolia's high proportion (80 percent) of external
trade with and technological dependence on the CIS, it was agreed, on an exceptional
basis, to disburse 25 percent of Credit proceeds, up to $7 million, against goods and spare
parts and equipment obtainable only from the CIS and the former CMEA countries, under
negotiated direct purchase contracts. The remaining project-financed goods and services
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
Procurement Guidelines.



- 3 -
6.          The project did not involve any unusual risks.  It consisted of two
components: (a) imports of equipment, materials, spare parts and other essential items;
and (b) provision of consultant services to facilitate procurement. The main risks to the
project were that procurement problems and transport bottlenecks would seriously delay
or prevent delivery of the critical imports; these problems were compounded by difficulties
experienced by suppliers in the CIS, owing to general political and economic turmoil in
the region. These risks were anticipated, however, and mitigated by the development of
a detailed procurement timetable prior to negotiations. In view of the Borrower's limited
experience with procurement procedures, it was agreed to appoint a specialized
procurement support and logistics advisor to be based in Mongolia and assist MTI in
project implementation.
B. ACIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.          The ERC was carried out against a background of economic crisis. First,
market reforms began to reveal the inefficiency of state enterprises and concomitant price
distortions. Second, the abandonment of central planning left the administration with
relatively undeveloped instruments of public management. Growth performance was
hindered in the absence of rapid improvements in institutional or physical infrastructure.
Finally, the Mongolian Tugrik was devalued three times during the implementation period
(for official transactions: from $1 =Tug 40 in September 1991 to $1 =Tug 150 in April
1993 and to a floating exchange rate of $1 =Tug 400 in May 1993).
8.          Macroeconomic and Sector Policy Improvements.  The ERC was not
designed to address policy issues but as emergency assistance to support a broader program
of reforms.  The ERC did facilitate diversification of Mongolia's trade.  A recent
assessment of Mongolia's direction of trade reveals increased diversification. In 1990,
over 90 percent of Mongolia's imports and exports were intra-CMEA. In 1993, Mongolia
conducted less than 60 percent of its trade with these countries. Trade links with China,
Japan and Western Europe have increased substantially. Furthermore, Mongolia has begun
to contract with traditional CMEA trading partners on convertible currency terms.
Maintaining the supply of critical inputs served to slow the decline in productivity and
output in Mongolia's priority sectors. Moreover, the quality of inputs, particularly from
nontraditional suppliers, was considerably improved; this had an important demonstration
effect in the sectors concerned.
9.          Physical Objectives. In the agricultural sector, the ERC helped to provide
the necessary funds and inputs for spare parts, fertilizers, veterinary medicines and other
chemicals. All the imported fertilizers were used for growing potatoes and vegetables in
the 1992 growing season, while the agricultural equipment was used for wheat production.
In the electricity sector, the project provided spare and replacement parts, diesel generators
and electric motors. The spare parts and equipment procured under the credit were part
of a broader program of assistance from the donor community, including the USA, Japan,
Germany and ADB. In the coal sector, pivotal for future economic growth, spare and
replacement parts, dump trucks, bulldozers and explosives were supplied. The Nalaich,
Sharyngol and Baganuur coal mines welcomed the opportunity to diversify their sources



- 4 -
of key equipment. Although the level of coal production has yet to return to former levels,
the critical decline in overburden removal was halted through the use of heavy earth-
moving equipment procured under the project. Difficulties were identified in financing
spare parts for the coal mine equipment, after consumption of the spares included with the
original delivery. This issue has since been resolved under the Economic Transition
Support Credit (2551-MOG) by the provision of consignment spare parts stocks. In the
petroleum sector, the project financed and successfully delivered specialized lubricants for
industry, agriculture, transport and mining. The end-users were pleased with the high
quality of the lubricants (i.e., multi-viscosity characteristics, detergent properties, long life,
high breakdown temperatures) compared with those which they had used previously. In
the transport sector, the project helped to provide urgently needed tires and batteries for
ambulances and buses particularly in the provinces (aimag), bitumen and spare parts for
road maintenance equipment. The end-users for the tires and batteries were mainly small
transport operators and farmers. Bitumen supplies were used primarily for urgently needed
road maintenance both in Ulaanbaatar and on national highways.
10.         Institutional Development. The ERC did not seek to address institutional
development issues directly. IDA focused on strengthening institutional capacity for policy
implementation through the parallel Technical Assistance Credit (2321-MOG) which
became effective in March 1992. The project did, however, contribute substantially
towards developing institutional capacity within MTI for international procurement
procedures and practices. The creation of a project implementation unit within MTI with
clearly defined responsibilities was the first step in developing this capacity. This resulted,
ultimately in the creation of a greatly improved import management system and logistical
capacity.
11.         Counterpart Funds. The transfer of a substantial portion of counterpart
funds from end-users to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), as agreed at the time of
negotiations, was carried out by the time of project completion, according to the records
made available to IDA. Yet these transfers were not adequately monitored or enforced.
Some misconceptions arose and delays occurred in developing coordination between the
relevant line ministries and MOF. It was originally envisaged that the line ministries
would have sufficient budget allocations to ensure the transfer of local currency equivalents
to cover the cost of imported items. However, the counterpart fund procedures were
adversely affected by internal institutional reforms and by external factors, notably the
devaluation of the Tugrik.
12.         Studies. A series of policy-oriented studies were originally to be done under
the ERC. These were (a) an energy assessment; (b) a coal production costs and pricing
study; (c) a petroleum demand, supply and procurement study; (d) an agricultural pricing
and marketing study; and (e) an analysis of the factors affecting reorientation of trade. It
was agreed during implementation that these would be more relevant to the objectives of
the Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) (2321-MOG). Only the petroleum study was
carried out under the ERC.



-5-
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFEcTING THE PRojECr
13.         Factors not subject to government control The final disbursement took
place on November 22, 1994, 17 months after the original closing date of June 30, 1993.
The principal factor delaying disbursement was the problem in securing timely delivery of
critical spare parts for agricultural and mining equipment, and bitumen for the transport
sector, from certain direct contract suppliers in the CIS. These delays required the
Mongolian government to request two closing date extensions, the first to December 31,
1993 and the final extension to June 30, 1994. Most of these delays were beyond the
control of MTI which took all reasonable steps to speed up deliveries, including drawing
up new contracts with more responsive suppliers. In the case of bitumen, the contract with
the original Russian supplier could not be completed because the supplier was unable to
ship and receive materials in bulk or in liquid form during the winter months. This
required MTI to find a new Ukrainian supplier at very short notice; the contract had to be
completed in several stages owing to unavailability of suitable shipping containers.
14.         In order to facilitate disbursements for purchasing imports from the CIS a
$3 million Special Account facility was set up in the State Bank of Mongolia International
(SBI). It was subsequently transferred to Midland Bank (UK) at the request of the
Borrower. The Special Account was established to enable the purchase of goods directly
contracted from the CIS (at that time, the Soviet Union was not a member of the Bank)
and former CMEA countries. The government was unable to prefinance these goods from
its own resources. The Special Account was designed to operate as a revolving fund from
which the Borrower would submit replenishment applications when required. However,
the suppliers concerned insisted on full payment and/or commitments through letters of
credit before goods could be shipped. Moreover, neither IDA nor the Borrower had much
expertise in financial transactions with the CIS. The concept of a revolving fund was not
entirely clear to Mongolian and Russian banks which were unfamiliar with IDA procedures
and processing letters of credit. After the Special Account was opened, $3 million were
immediately committed through letters of credit, although it took up to six to nine months
before the relevant shipments were made. Normal replenishment of the account was
therefore not possible until after deliveries had been made and drawdown implemented
against letters of credit. This led to delays in placing orders and anticipated deliveries.
In the circumstances, IDA agreed to a supplementary $3 million replenishment of the
Special Account in May 1992. This was also immediately committed. In sum, $6 million
were fully committed by late 1992 owing to precommitment requirements of direct contract
suppliers; disbursement took over a year to complete. The Special Account was thus never
used as a revolving fund as originally envisaged.
15.         Factors Subject to Govermnent Control. The principal problem of project
implementation in-country was the sale and distribution of certain key imports to end-users.
This can be attributable to (a) expectational lags- resulting from successive devaluations of
the Tugrik and price differentials between the newly imported goods, which had to be
purchased at market prices, and formerly subsidized imports from the former Soviet Union
or CMEA countries; and (b) confusion over institutional responsibility. Price ceilings
prevailed during the transitional phase in the economy, thus hindering the ability of end-



- 6 -
users to purchase imported goods at market prices. Devaluation embattled negotiations
with end-users further.  Previously, line ministries had been responsible for import
purchasing and distribution to end-users. Under the counterpart fund requirement, line
ministries were to transfer counterpart funds to the Ministry of Finance. However some
end-users did not feel an obligation to pay for the imported goods, on the assumption that
this was the responsibility of line ministries as had historically been the case. In addition,
the quasi-autonomous Foreign Trade Corporations (FTCs) within the relevant line
ministries (Erchimpex, Nuursimpex, Autoimport, State Road Corporation, Agricultural
Trade and Import Corporation and the Petroleum Import Corporation) responsible for
receipt, sales and distribution of goods were in the process of being restructured. In some
cases there was some confusion between the mandates of the FTCs and the emerging
private sector. It was therefore very difficult for MTI to monitor and follow up on the
distribution of goods; ultimately it was not practical for MTI to act as a financial
intermediary between the line ministries and MOF.
16.         Most distribution and sales difficulties occurred in the transport and
agricultural sectors where the end-users were highly dispersed. End-users in the energy
and mining sectors were relatively monolithic. In the transport sector, initial sales of tires,
particularly for cars and dumpsters, were slow. In the agricultural sector, the level of
sales of spare parts, equipment, veterinary medicine and fertilizers was initially very low
because of price distortions. Moreover, formerly collective state farms were in the process
of being privatized. The new smaller agricultural units had more limited financial ability
and the issue of producer prices has not yet been resolved. It was reported during
supervision that some agricultural and transport imports had been sold to the private sector,
but this was believed to be minimal. In the mining sector, some end-users delayed
payment, trying to negotiate deliveries on the basis of earlier exchange rates which caused
delays in distribution.
D. PRoJiEcT SusTALNABuirY
17.         The issue of sustainability is marginally relevant to an emergency balance
of payments credit of this type. However, the development of institutional capacity within
MTI contributed substantially to facilitating implementation of subsequent operations. MTI
acquired valuable experience in logistical planning, procurement procedures and
commercial practices which greatly enhanced their ability to manage public sector imports.
18.         It is anticipated that future import requirements will increasingly be met
through the private sector, particularly in the case of petroleum, vehicle spare parts and
agricultural inputs. A significant volume of imports are still donor-financed at this stage
of Mongolia's economic transition.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
19.         This was IDA's first project in Mongolia.   A  Country Economic
Memorandum, Mongolia: Towards a Market Economy, was prepared in 1992 and
provided a detailed analysis of the country's proposed economic reform program and



- 7 -
development prospects. A great deal of preparatory work was done, particularly on the
development of a detailed procurement timetable, given IDA's limited experience in
transactions with the CIS and the almost total lack of commercial links between Mongolia
and non-CMEA states. The appointment of a locally based procurement advisor, in
collaboration with MTI, was highly effective in ensuring adherence to the procurement
plan and thereby facilitating rapid disbursement.
20.         The implementation of the ERC was supervised by frequent IDA missions.
When procurement delays were experienced, IDA demonstrated flexibility both in agreeing
to two extensions of the loan closing date and in doubling the original allocation to the
Special Account at the request of the Borrower to ensure delivery of essential imports.
Moreover, IDA did not insist on prompt compliance with the counterpart fund requirement
when delays occurred in end-user distribution and counterpart fund transfers. IDA was
compelled to make a strategic decision: either to insist on counterpart fund requirements,
at the risk of spoilage of some of the critical imports such as fertilizers, or to place
overriding emphasis on quick disbursement. The latter option was chosen. This was
considered the most pragmatic approach in the context of a difficult economic transition
period, given the fundamental objective of emergency assistance and the very real risks of
further deterioration in the priority sectors.
F. BoRRowER PERFORMANCE
21.         The Government established a dedicated project implementation unit within
the Foreign Trade Department (now Department of International Trade and Cooperation)
of MTI to work with IDA in the preparation and implementation of the ERC. Cooperation
between the Borrower and IDA was good, particularly during the development of the
procurement plan. The performance of MTI has been very effective. MTI set up an
import procurement management system to monitor shipments, contracts and arrivals of
imports including those financed by other donors. Master Status sheets on imports and
disbursements were diligently kept up to date by MTI and submitted on a regular basis as
agreed. In addition MTI's project coordinator and key project staff remained in place until
project completion. The quality of communication, particularly the provision of relevant
data and documentation by the Borrower was therefore satisfactory. However, some of
the confusion arising over the operation of the Special Account might have been resolved
had the Borrower counterparts sought clarification at an earlier stage on how to address
precommitment demands or operate a revolving fund. In general, delays in implementation
were primarily attributable to external sources, and the Borrower performed well in
difficult circumstances.
22.         Borrower compliance with credit covenants was satisfactory. Nevertheless
some delays occurred in compliance with section 2.06 conceming repayment of
commission and service charges, requiring IDA to issue waming telexes in November
1992, December 1993 and June 1994.



- 8 -
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
23.         The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The ERC mitigated the decline
in the growth rate, facilitated trade diversification and provided important institutional
support, especially to MTI. As a result, it has made a significant contribution towards
Mongolia's economic stabilization program and the transition to a market economy.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
24.         The ERC was designed as short-term emergency balance of payments
assistance. There are no provisions for future operation. However, two follow-up
operations have been launched which consolidate the ERC's achievements. The Mongolia
Economic Transition Support Credit (2551-MOG) focuses on the mining and transport
sectors, but also places greater emphasis at the outset on policy issues, notably pricing/
tariff reforms to improve cash flows for end-users and improved management of public
expenditures using already allocated budgetary funds for financing counterpart funds. The
recommendations of the petroleum study have been incorporated into the Petroleum
Transshipment Project (FY96) which is currently under preparation.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
25.         Four main lessons emerge from IDA's experience with the ERC. First,
rapid disbursement is greatly facilitated by the development of a well-prepared procurement
timetable and monitoring system and the appointment of procurement advisors prior to
negotiations and Board preparation. Regular monitoring allowed schedule modifications
to be made where necessary. Second, a project of this type can have valuable long-term
benefits if attention is paid in design and implementation to developing institutional
capacity. Third, emergency assistance of this nature is most effective when combined with
donor coordination to address broader macroeconomic and sectoral concerns. Finally, the
objectives of counterpart fund management and emergency assistance are difficult to
reconcile in transitional economies where ability to pay is constrained by adjustment
processes. In future operations, it will be advisable to develop mechanisms for working
more closely with end-users and explore the role of financial intermediaries and the private
sector in this regard.



- 9 -
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial   Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macroeconomic policies                         X
Sector policies                                x
Financial objectives                           X
Institutional development                      X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender concerns                                                        X
Other social objectives                                                X
Environmental objectives                                               X
Public sector management                       X
Private sector development                     X
Project Sustainability
Likely                          Unlikely                          Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                  X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision                     X



- 10 -
Borrower Performance
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                  X
Covenant compliance             X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly unsatisfactory
x



- 11 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LoANs/CREDlTs
Year of
Loan/credit title                               Purpose                 approval   Status
Technical Assistance Credit        (a) To help Mongolia develop institu-  FY92    Lending
2321-MOG                           tional capacity for macroeconomic man-
agement in a market economy; (b) to
help define strategies for sectors/subsec-
tors key to Mongolia's economic devel-
opment.
Economic Transition Support Credit   (a) To finance critical imports and tech-   FY94  Lending
2551-MOG                           nical assistance to maintain and develop
the mining and transport sectors in
Mongolia; (b) to help the ongoing eco-
nomic stabilization and adjustment pro-
gram and contribute to resumption of
growth.



- 12 -
Table 3: PROJEcr TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle        Date planned        Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                  07/29/91                 07/29/91
Preparation                     08/12/91                 08/12/91
Appraisal                       10/05/91                  10/05/91
Negotiations                    11/15/91                  11/15/91
Board presentation              12/19/91                  12/19/91
Signing                         12/27/91                  12/27/91
Effectiveness                   01/20/92                 02/20/92
Project Completion              12/30/93                 09/15/94
Credit closing                  06/30/93                 06/30/94



- 13 -
Table 4: CREDrr DISBuRSEmENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND Ac-ruAL
FY92         FY93         FY94         FY95
Appraisal estimate            15.0         30.0          0            0
Actual                        15.2         26.9         30.1         31.4
Actual as % of estimate      101.3         89.6          -             -
Date of final disbursement:  11/22/94



- 14 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(Not Applicable)
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable)



- 15 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at                  Status                Impact of study
Study                     appraisaUredefined
Energy assess-    To investigate the pricing, energy  Carried out by ESMAP, Bank
ment             efficiency and environmental issues    ESW
which define the power system's long-
term investment priorities.
Coal pricing     Coal production costs and pricing   Carried out under METS
study
Petroleum prod-   Demand, supply and procurement     Carried out under ERC         Transshipment facility
ucts             study to support development of                                   at Zamyn-Uud identi-
strategy to meet increasing demand                               fied. Project prepara-
when economic growth resumes                                    tion underway
Agricultural     Action program for privatization of    Bank ESW
pricing and mar-  agricultural input supply and distribu-
keting           tion; agricultural product marketing.
Reorientation of   To examine access to foreign      Dropped
trade            exchange and trade finance, customs
inspection, valuation and duty coUec-
tion procedures for imports, market
reconnaissance, quality control and
marketing arrangements for export
promotion; how to make foreign trade
organizations responsive to market
conditions.



- 16 -
Table 8a: PROJECT COSTS
Item                     Appraisal estimate ($ M)   Actual/latest ($ M)
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
Electric power
production             1.00      3.50    4.50    1.10     4.10    5.20
Coal mining              1.90     7.40    9.30    2.80     10.70   13.50
Transport                1.30     5.00    6.30    1.50     5.80    7.30
Agriculture              1.70     6.50    8.20    1.80     7.00    8.80
Petroleum products      0.55      2.00    2.55    0.60     2.50    3.20
Total critical imports  6.45     24.40   30.85    7.80    30.17   37.97
Consultant services
-     0.30    0.30      0       0.78    0.78
Contingencies            1.50     5.30    6.80    1.00     0.45    1.45
Total                7.95     30.00   37.95    8,80    31.40   40.20
Table 8b: PRoJEcT FINANCING
Source                  Appraisal estimate ($ M)      Actual ($ M)
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                     0        30.0     30.0     0      31.40   31.40
Domestic contribution   7.95      0        7.95    8.8     0       8.8
Total           7      953             37.95    8.8    31.40   40.20



- 17 -
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFTs
(Not Applicable)



Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section  Covenant Present   Original       Revised    Description of covenant                     Comments
type   status   fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
Develop-    2.03      5         NC       12/27/91                 Closing date of June 30, 1993    Closing date extended to
ment Credit                                                       stipulated                       December 31, 1993 then to June
Agreement                                                                                          30, 1994 because of procurement
delays from CIS suppliers
2.06     5         CD       12/27/91                 Semi-annual repayment of com-    Repayment delays occurred in
mitment and service charges on  November 1992, December 1993
May 1 and November 1            and June 1994. Warning telexes
issued by IDA.
3.03    5          C        12/27/91                 Maintenance of key project staff    Procurement Advisor still in place  00
including coordinator and procure-  as of loan closing
ment advisor
4.01     9         C        12/27/91                 Maintenance of adequate records
and accounts
Schedule 4   3.       13/a      CP       12/27/91                 Special Account withdrawals      Special and Credit Accounts used
of DCA                                                                                             interchangeably owing to misun-
derstandings over procedures with
CIS suppliers and financial institu-
tions
/a Special Account
Note: The selection of legal covenants was appropriate. The only problems which occurred concerned operation of the Special Account.



- 19 -
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(Not Applicable)



- 20 -
Table 12: BANK RESOuRcEs: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
project cycle              Planned            Revised             Actual
Weeks         $    Weeks        $     Weeks       $
Through appraisal       120.4      45.2     33.8        -       18.9        -
Appraisal-board             -         -      9.8      9.5       15.6        -
Board-effectiveness         -         -        -        -          -
Supervision              12.0       9.9     12.0      9.9      23.9       2.6
Completion                  -         -     10.0        -       13.9    16.8
Total                132.4      55.1     65.6     19.4      72.3    19.4



Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of                              Number of    Days        Specialized staff                                    Types
project cycle              Month/year   persons      in field    skills represented      Performance rating        of problems
Implementation  Development
status      objectives
Through appraisal             08/91         4          12         Economics,                                            1
10/91        5          10         Engineering/
Procurement
Appraisal through
Board approval                                                                                                         I
Board approval through
effectiveness                                                                                                          1
Supervision                   03/92         2          10         Economics,              1            NR              1/0
11/92        2          10         Engineering/                                    (Other= Special
04/93         2          6          Procurement                                        Account
Operation;
Procurement)
Completion                    06/94         3           5         Economics,              1            NR
Engineering/
Procurement



- 22 -                         ANNEX 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
AIDE MEMOIRE
July 27, 1994
1.          An IDA  mission, comprising Mr. Hongjoo Hahm  (mission leader),
Ms. Natasha Beschorner and Mr. J. Chanmugam, held meetings with representatives from
the Ministries of Fuel, Energy, Geology and Mines; Agriculture; Infrastructure
(Transport); and the Petroleum Import Concern to discuss the utilization of proceeds from
the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (2320-MOG). The mission would like to thank the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) for their assistance during this mission and in
preparing the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). At all these meetings, staff from
MTI (Ms. Narangua, Ms. Oyunchimeg, Mr. McKie and others) attended and participated
in the discussions. The following is a summary of the principal findings and conclusions
of the mission and has been discussed with the Ministry of Trade and Industry in its
capacity as implementing agency.
2.          The original credit amount was SDR 22.2 million, equivalent to $30 million
at the time of IDA Board approval. The actual foreign exchange cost, at closing of the
credit was $31.4 million of which $30.17 million were spent on imported goods and
$781,600 on consultancy services.  Custom duties on imported goods and sales tax
amounted to $7.8 million equivalent, and the cost of intemal transport and handling
amounted to $1.0 million equivalent, for a total of $8.8 million equivalent in local costs.
Thus the total project cost was $40.2 million, compared with the original estimate of
$37.95 million (as described in para. 3.1 in the Staff Appraisal Report).
3.          The project progressed according to schedule at first, but delays in
procurement of items contracted with suppliers in CIS countries necessitated extensions in
the closing date by 12 months from the original closing date of June 30, 1993. These
delays were largely due to the inexperience of traditional CIS suppliers in carrying out
intemationally accepted procedures for financial transactions. Procurement using ICB
procedures was undertaken expeditiously without any problem.  In general, project
implementation was satisfactory, providing valuable learning experience for all concerned.
4.          The counterpart Tugrikfunds generated from the sale of imported goods to
end-users were transferred to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). At the time of credit



- 23 -                          ANNEX 1
closing, a substantial portion of the counterpart funds were transferred, leaving a balance
of $2.32 million still to be collected due to lack of sales. These sales are mostly to small
agricultural and transport end-users, who, following the privatization of state farms and
truck operations, lack the financial means to pay promptly. During the implementation
period, the Tugrik was devalued from $1=Tug 40 to $1=Tug 150 to $1=Tug 400,
making it more difficult for end-users to pay at market prices.
5.          A total of $4.08 million was spent on procuring spare parts and equipment
for the power sector, all by direct contracts from the CIS. The spare parts and equipment
procured under the credit were part of a broader program of assistance from the donor
community, including the USA, Japan, Germany and ADB. Except for a small amount
of goods still in transit, all imports were sold to end-users by the responsible foreign trade
corporation, ERCHIM IMPEX, who also collected the Tugrik counterpart funds for MOF.
There were some problems and delays in collecting money from end-user power stations
as electricity prices were highly subsidized and their customers were not paying in time.
6.          A total of $10.7 million was used to import equipment and spares for the
Nalaich, Sharyngol and Baganuur coal mines. All imported items were received and
handed over to the mines by NUURS, the responsible foreign trade corporation. However,
only a portion of the equivalent Tugrik counterpart funds has been paid to NUURS for
transfer to MOF. The mines were not paid by their principal customers-the power
generating units-and consequently the mines lacked the resources to pay the NUURS for
the imported goods; $6.2 million was used for ICB procurement of dump trucks and
bulldozers, while the balance was used for procurement by direct contracts from traditional
Russian suppliers. The mines welcomed the opportunity to diversify their sources of
procurement of key equipment. There was some apprehension about the adequacy of
technical sales support provided by the supplier of dump trucks (Terex).
7.          The lubricating oils imported under the ERC amounted to $2.5 million and
were procured under ICB. All the contracted items were received, distributed and sold by
the Petroleum Import Concern (PIC). The entire Tugrik equivalent counterpart funds were
collected by PIC and handed over to MOF. The end-users were pleased with the high
quality of the lubricants (i.e., multi-viscosity characteristics, detergent properties, long life,
high breakdown temperatures) compared with the Russian oils they had used before. A
petroleum logistics and supply study was commissioned by PIC under the ERC. The
study, costing $373,000, provided engineering plans for a petroleum products
transshipment facility at the Mongolia-China border.
8.          The total amount of contracts for the transportation sector was $5.8 million,
of which $800,000 was for tires and batteries and $5.0 million for roads.  ICB
procurement, amounting to $3.8 million was used to purchase tires and batteries, and $1.1
million for direct purchase of tires and batteries for specialized vehicles (e.g. trolley
buses).  AUTOIMPORT, the responsible foreign trade corporation, undertook the
purchase, delivery and sales of the imported items. The end-users for the tires and
batteries were mainly small transport operators and farmers. AUTOIMPORT was unable
to sell about $1 million of tires as of closing, but expects to complete all sales by the end



- 24 -                          ANNEX 1
of the 1994 harvest season and transfer the Tugrik counterpart funds to MOF. The ERC
experience with commodities such as tires and batteries suggests that such imports may
best be left to commercial/business entities rather than state organizations like
AUTOIMPORT.
9.          Imports of bitumen and spares for road equipment for the road sector
amounted to $860,000, all procured through direct contracts from traditional Russian
suppliers. The procurement of bitumen posed significant problems due to the limited
delivery season (April to September) and a lack of special heated rail wagons.
Furthermore, due to problems with the supplier, a part of the original contract was
cancelled, and a new contract was made with a different supplier; 7,500 tons of bitumen
have been received and the final 2,500 tons are in transit for delivery by August. (One
reason for the extension in the closing date referred to in para. 3 was due to the bitumen
procurement problem.) All counterpart Tugrik funds for imported items have been
received and transferred to MOF.
10.         Imports to the agriculture sector amounted to $6.95 million, of which $4.68
million was procured through ICB. Among the ICB items procured were 10,000 tons of
N, P and K fertilizers, and various quantities of herbicides, pesticides and veterinary
medicines.  The balance was used for direct contract purchases of spare parts for
agricultural equipment from Russia and Poland. All the imported fertilizers were used for
growing potatoes and vegetables in the 1992 growing season, while the agricultural
equipment were used for wheat production. Almost all the directly contracted spare parts
were sold promptly, but about $15,000 in agricultural equipment was not sold by closing
date. It is expected to be sold by the end of the 1994 growing season. Of the $1.19
million in imported veterinary medicines, about $748,000 was sold by closing date. The
high costs of the veterinary medicine for herdsmen have been prohibitive. In this regard,
there is concern about the shelf life and potency of the stored veterinary medicine which
were purchased in 1992. AGROIMPEX was the foreign trade corporation responsible for
the delivery of goods and collection of sales proceeds. However, only a portion of the
Tugrik counterpart funds from the agriculture sector have been collected and transferred
to MOF. The end-users, predominantly small farmers and herdsmen, found it difficult to
pay in full for the purchased items. The Government has allowed purchases by end-users
at an exchange rate of $1 =Tug 200 to ensure delivery of the imported goods in time for
the harvest season.
11.         The Ministry of Trade and Industry fulfilled all its responsibilities under the
ERC. The creation of a project implementation unit within MTI greatly contributed to the
quick disbursement of the credit. Further, the ERC experience provided MTI with
experience in logistical planning, procurement procedures and commercial practices that
facilitated their ability to manage public sector imports.
Ulaanbaatar
July 27, 1994



- 25 -                           ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(2320-MOG)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. BACKGROUND
(a) Signature of Credit C 2320 MOG
The Economic Rehabilitation Project - C 2320 MOG - was initiated at a time
of extreme economic crisis following the collapse of the CMEA trading system and the
break up of the USSR, and when Mongolia had effectively no foreign reserves.
The agreement was signed on Dec 27, 1991 and became effective on 20 Feb., 1992.
(b) Amount and Currency
The credit C 2320 MOG was approved in the amount of SDR 22,200,000
equivalent to US $30,000,000.
2. IDA PERFORMANCE
a. IDA performance during development & implementation of the project
IDA recognized from the outset that there was a lack of knowledge and
experience of dealing with international procurement and international banking procedures.
Direct assistance was given in the preparation of specifications and bidding documents
prior to the appointment of a specialist procurement adviser. In country training in the
procedures and practices of IDA bidding procedures and disbursement regulations was
given.
b. Lessons learned
(1)          In any similar future project, the assembly and training of a procurement
team should have first priority. It is not enough to "learn as you go along" especially
where there is a language barrier.



- 26 -                         ANNEX 2
(2)         That there are many instances where LIB procedures are more applicable
than full ICB procedures, both with regard to speed and the ability to deal with principals
rather than middlemen.
(3)         Provision should always be made for task specific training and experience
in a developed economy. There is always difficulty in adjusting between changes of
economic environment when only a mental imperative to change exists.
3. BORROWER's PERFORMANCE
a. Project Implementation and objectives
As there was harmony from the beginning between IDA and the Borrower,
and the special case of direct contract supply from sole sources in the former USSR had
been allowed for, the project went ahead smoothly. Virtually all contracts were let and
funds committed during the first half of 1993. The single problem area was the
procurement of bitumen.
A major difficulty was the realization of counterpart funds during this period
of economic trauma. It is fair to say that if the beneficiaries had the tugrik funds they
would not have used the IDA methods at all but would have made direct contracts for their
needs. Despite the difficulties created by this requirement the appropriate amounts
(incorporating the various changes in exchange rates) were largely collected.
Some sectors have stocks as yet unutilized - albeit mostly as a result of
exchange fluctuations pushing the tugrik equivalent prices beyond the capability of the
beneficiary to pay - but authority has been given to use, an exchange rate of 1:200 (current
rate is 1:400) in order to get the goods into-use.
The project has highlighted the role played in procurement and distribution
by the Foreign Trade Corporation in the various sectors and consideration of their place
is in hand vis a vis the role of the private sector. For example, the Petroleum Import
Concern is now in a position to deal directly internationally and to consider commercial
developments such as franchising some of the services now provided from its own
resources. Further study of other FTC is in hand to enable policy to be developed.
Although there was an original intention for the MTI to act as a collecting
agency for counterpart funds, this was not in fact practicable as MTI would have had to
warehouse and account for goods prior and subsequent to their uptake by the beneficiaries.
Direct transaction between FTC beneficiary agencies and the MOF have in fact been the
method of bringing the counterpart funds into the Treasury.
4. RELATIONSHIP between IDA and THE BORROWER
Relationships were good. Both IDA and the Borrower maintained the same
team throughout the project, and mutual understanding was highly developed. Negotiation



- 27 -                          ANNEX 2
was possible on any issue. The peculiar to Mongolia problems were very well understood
and appreciated by IDA.
Physical communications in the early stages were not good and this led
sometimes to worries and confusion. The international courier service was inefficient-
sometimes taking 25-30 days to deliver documents either way-and the telephone/telex lines
were routed through the ancient Moscow exchange. Provision should always be made for
what is now commonplace - satellite communication - which allows for instant resolution
of problems. It appears that IDA can not work from facsimile transmissions of documents
etc, although telex transmissions can be accepted. In view of the excessive cost and time
of forwarding original documents provision should be made to work from facsimile
documents, to be authenticated later during supervisory missions.
5. DESCRIPTION OF EXECUTION OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED FROM
CREDIT PROCEEDS
a. Energy Sector
As described earlier, provision was made for direct contracting to sole
suppliers in the former USSR. This allowed speedy provision of parts and material.
$3,500,000 were originally allocated to this subproject ($1,100,000 ICB
$2,400,000 direct contract) $4,028,500 were eventually utilized. (It should be noted that
the IDA financing was part of a sectoral financing and support plan from various donor
agencies).
b. Coal Mining Sector
Where direct contracting was undertaken the only problems encountered
were the unfamiliarity of the ex USSR banking system with the provisions of international
banking.
ICB procurement, unfortunately, resulted in dump trucks being provided
which were different from the existing equipment (whose manufacturer tendered but was
not competitive in price). Despite the apparent advantages of ICB, IDA procedures should
allow more weight to be given to buyers preference.
$7,400,000 were originally allocated to this sub project ($5,000,000 ICB
$2,400,000 direct contract). $10,401,800 were eventually utilized.
c. Transport Sector
The support to this sector, which includes Roads, was in the main in the
form of tyres (truck, bus, car and utility, dump truck) batteries; and Bitumen and spare
parts for road maintenance equipment. The procurement of bitumen was the major



- 28 -                           ANNEX 2
headache, and it was largely because of delays in supply that extensions to the project life
had to be requested.
$5,000,000 were originally allocated to this sub project. ($3,500,000 ICB,
$1,500,000 direct contract) $5,214,300 were ultimately utilized.
d. Agriculture Sector
The support to this section covered fertilizers, medicines for livestock
agriculture equipment, spare parts, herbicides and pesticides.
To some extent this was the least satisfactory element in that, because of the
leap in exchange rates, the end-users initially were unable to purchase fertilizers,
herbicides and pesticides. The issue was partially resolved by selling on credit, but even
so this sector accounts for much of the unrealized counterpart funds. There was a clear
lack of commercial awareness on the part of the FTC which was handling distribution of
these inputs, but in fairness they have also been hampered by lack of budget allocations.
Further study of the mechanics of distribution and sale (especially to small farmers) is
required and will receive attention.
$6,500,000 were originally allocated to this sub project. ($4,800,000 ICB
$1,700,000 direct contract) $6,941,600 were ultimately utilized.
e. Petroleum Sector
Procurement and distribution for this sector was timely and efficient and
ensured the continuing supply of lubricants for generating plants around the country.
The organization concerned leamed a great deal about intemational trade in
petroleum products and has recently undergone partial privatization. Storage and
distribution are under current review with a view to allocating franchises or joint ventures
$2,000,000 were originally allocated to this sub project ($2,000,000 ICB)
$2,506,800 were ultimately utilized.
f. Consultancy and Miscellaneous
There were no problems in this area.
$300,000 were originally allocated.
$838,600 were ultimately utilized (amount includes provision of office
equipment and communication equipment to provide for the needs of the procurement
management unit of the MTI).



- 29 -                         ANNEX 2
6. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
- The project objectives were satisfactorily achieved.
- Considerable flexibility was shown by IDA with regard to problems of supply,
disbursement and reallocation of funds under-utilized or accruing from exchange
rate differentials.
- The role of MTI can gradually change from being the national procurement agency
to that of policy maker and coordinator of procurement for the public sector and
source of international contacts and price levels etcetera.
- The project has clarified the need to examine the future role of the FTCs.
- The sensitivity to Mongolian needs and sensibility on the part of the IDA team
enabled this project - the first of its kind in this country - to be a success.






x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Au UKE ~fJ
> - 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN  FEDERATION  |
U"
I   ULAANGOM :C   \-.
V.> o      A =MORON '
AYA  OL;Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HINA
K->                                                                                   -0BULGAN
-~ DZAVH=N
PO.DOG -I>                                                                                                       RIBAL
\\                                              0      K '                 P                   A o N Z  D A                                       4 c S_                 >                      A E
-  >~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~~P                                                                                                        k-I~~~~~~~~~~ENTIY
ULA_t                                      AoRw                            UIF                               A A_                                             sF                 R  EA H  R O  D    RA  K O  T A L
~  R-ANGAY
HCVD                                                                                                   (~0-7-
SETSERLES D0UU*~OD /0                                                      V'    bl        MN    0     "' 61U-ODR
orUE 0 50101020  ES oSECTDONVLAS
0rv   n n o  / of   or ALTAY0      o ,n rn s                                                                                                                            o
6~~  ~   ~n-~~N>    M~A.~o~~00s  0     ~           ~               06~0        0                        SUKH BAA TAR
CHINA                   T>8j?o                                                                                          NHNG bounRor (s  A                                                                                                            IOE
G     /1ALA                                             CVORH>,N,GAY"-
S     /                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAYNSHAND~I
BA(ANT9ONGOR         -~                                                s----                                       MONGOLIA
C:Oo LAKES
DALANDZAOOAD                                       0,~SL  AE
FAIR-WEATH-ER ROADS, TRACKS OR TRAILS
KILOMETERS 5    50   IDOE  ISO   0001                                                                                    0.                                                0 N0OS                                                           -     ALL-WEATHER HARD DR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS
5o- RAILROADS
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                    t AIRFIELDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIFED
MILES 0        50       ITS       150      200                                                                                                                                                                                          +  INTERNAT ONAL AIRPORT
0SELECTED TOWNS -VILLADES
A154AK CAPITALS
TIL. b-d-.1,  -R O.ApyO0.0000*0IBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPiTAL
Goa,o.    ldgao.ao0,,oh.I.QAI BopooB p0 coy o.,a,oo, 00 POp                                                                                                                              AIMAIK ROUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~AMAKBOUNARIE
-INTERNJATIONAL. BOUNDARIES
OCTOBER BR9a






-       RUSSIAN FEDERATION
*  -- - '~ '"''C   t   _''                                                               CHINA
,   '  XuoriGG;  ~~~~~~~              '       ;   ~~  L S  -          ;   ~~~~~,       <~~          >               r                g   /          ,.                  ' 
tt _ *OLGv ffi 6 a,, ' '' " : >-- ,' ~ <_~_/ 1 d. CHINA
(                                                                            $BxE2 .  LAS~ ,5                        _                                                                          - . 
MONGOLIA
/ _ -    2)AO\   25S ESS
PA- Z-ADS
A                                                                                                           P.MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B ONDAAE,
ADEtA7 CNl- 10CDAB C



