Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF091289-EGT 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Kureimat Solar Thermal Hybrid Power Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
Dated December 16, 2007 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF091289-EGT 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 16, 2007, entered into between: ARAB 
REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (“Recipient”); and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”). 
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - THE PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project through the New and Renewable Energy Authority (“Project 
Implementing Entity”) in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out by Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE GRANT 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to forty nine 
million eight hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$49,800,000) (“Grant”) 
to assist in financing the Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.03. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
3.04. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the World Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the Recipient’s domestic 
constitutional procedures have been completed and shall enter into effect on the 
date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the Recipient notice of its 
acceptance of such evidence. 
 
4.02. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement shall terminate if it 
has not entered into effect by the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank establishes a later date for the 
purpose of this Section.  The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE V -
 RECIPIENT’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Recipient and the First Under 
Secretary for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation are severally designated as the Recipient’s 
Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard Conditions. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
8
Adly Street, 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
    Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391 2815 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
 
(202) 2391 5167 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. The 
Worl
d
Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility) 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the share of solar-based electricity in 
the Egyptian energy generation thereby contributing to the Recipient’s objective of 
diversifying electric power production. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Plant
Design, construction and initial operation and maintenance of the 
integrated solar combined cycle plant at Kureimat including: 
 
(a) 
a solar island consisting of a parabolic trough solar field capable of 
generating about 73 MW (thermal) of solar heat at a temperature of 
393°C; the related instrumentation and control room; the heat transfer fluid 
(HTF) system up to the HTF’s inlet; and outlet flanges of the solar heat 
exchangers; and  
 
(b) 
a combined cycle island consisting of one or two gas turbines with ISO 
rating of about 80 MWe; one or two heat recovery steam generators; one 
steam turbine of about 70 MWe; solar heat exchangers capable of 
absorbing about 110 MW (thermal) solar heat; and the associated balance 
of plant equipment. 
 
2. 
Capacity Building of the Project Implementing Entity
Providing the Project Implementing Entity with technical assistance and 
training required for: (a) the preparation of detailed engineering designs for the 
Project with special attention to the interface between the solar and combined 
cycle gas turbine parts; (b) the supervision of the construction and environmental 
aspects of the power plant; (c) the monitoring, commissioning and guarantee 
tests; (d) the preparation of the operations and maintenance contract for the 
turbine referred to in Part 2(a) above, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the World Bank; (e) the monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the 
plant during the two (2) years guarantee period; and (f) the training and transfer 
of know-how in integrated solar combined cycle plant operation, with particular 
emphasis on dispatching and integration into the power system. 
Page  6
-
5
-
3. 
Environmental and Social Impact Management
The implementation of the Environmental Management Plan to mitigate 
the potential environmental and social impacts associated with the construction 
and operation of the power plant. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional Arrangements
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of 
the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish 
by no later than three (3) months as at the Effective Date of this Agreement, and 
thereafter maintain the PIU throughout Project implementation with organization, 
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A.
 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis 
of the agreed upon indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare the 
Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished to the World 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system and prepare Financial Statements in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Financial 
Statements reflecting its operations and financial condition audited by the Central 
Auditing Organization and the Financial Statements reflecting the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the World Bank, both in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the World Bank.  Each audit of these Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished by the 
Project Implementing Entity to the Recipient and the World Bank not later than 
six (6) months after the end of the period. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that interim 
unaudited financial statements for the Project are prepared and furnished to the 
World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A.
 
General 
 
1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All works required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the World Bank in May 2004 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods 
and works, and Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in  
May 2004 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
C. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions  
 
Any contract for works shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and  
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to such Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in such Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed 
in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
 
Works 
 
49,800,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
49,800,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
for any payment for Taxes levied by or in the territory of the Member 
Country in respect of works. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
October 31, 2011. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Recipient’s 
environmental management plan for the Project furnished to the World Bank on 
September 14, 2006, as such plan may be updated from time to time by 
agreement between the Recipient and the World Bank, setting forth the 
mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
2. 
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit to be established by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the New and Renewable Energy Authority, 
established and operating by virtue of Law No. 102 of 1986.
 
