Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2614 
Project Name 
SOLAR THERMAL HYBRID PROJECT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Renewable energy (50%);Power (50%) 
Project ID 
P050567 
GEF Focal Area 
Climate change 
Borrower(s)/Recipient 
Government of Egypt 
Implementing Agency 
New and Renewable Energy Authority 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 17, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 26, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
February 15, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The political system in Egypt can be characterized by stability and continuity.  A comprehensive 
reform program was adopted in 2004 when significant change took place in the cabinet and 
several new officials were appointed to key ministerial positions.  This new government has 
made economic reform its key objective, notably in areas such as finance, investment, trade and 
industry.  It has also stated its keen interest in expanding public-private partnerships and 
undertaking public sector reforms aimed at enhancing the provision of public goods and services, 
including physical and social infrastructure.  The latter includes the power sector. 
The investment needs in infrastructure remain substantial.  It is estimated that approximately 4-
6% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) needs to be invested annually in infrastructure sectors in 
the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region to satisfy new investment requirements as 
well as maintenance and replacement spending.
1
The decline in investment in the MENA region, 
including in Egypt, is reported to have compromised the infrastructure base, which is further 
challenged by the high growth in demand for modern infrastructure services.  To ensure adequate 
provision of electricity, the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company (EEHC), responsible for 
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Egypt, projects requiring on average 
about 1,500 MW of new capacity each year.  Promotion of renewable energy projects plays a key 
part in Egypt’s generation plan.   Indeed, today 145 MW of wind-turbines have already been 
installed and are operational, performing well at an average capacity factor of 42%.   
 
The fast growing demand for electricity requires significant investment in generation capacity 
each year (the increase in demand for electricity in Egypt averaged about 7% during 1997/98–
2003/04 and is expected to remain in the 6%–7% range over the next 10 years).  Installed 
capacity of electric power was 18,119 MW in 2003/04, of which 84% comprised thermal power 
(8% of which is provided by the private sector through 3 Independent Power Producers, IPPs).  
1
Cited in internal Bank report on “Arab Republic of Egypt: A Short Infrastructure Assessment,” December 2004. 
Page  2
2
The remaining capacity was attributed to hydropower (15%) and wind (1%).  Peak load reached 
14,735 MW, and about 90% of the thermal power production was based on natural gas.  
Initiatives are underway to better understand customer consumption patterns and loads to 
ultimately implement demand-side management measures to reduce the overall consumption and 
the growth in demand.
2
World Bank assistance is being provided to enhance energy efficiency in 
the power sector under the El Tebbin Power Project.  This covers pricing as well as load 
management planning. 
The Government’s strategy is to continue to implement gas fired power plants, with a long-term 
view to increase the share of combined cycle gas turbine technology in the generation mix.  In 
addition, the Government has a target of meeting 3% of its primary energy needs from renewable 
energy sources by 2010.  The New and Renewable Energy Authority (NREA) has the 
responsibility to develop renewable resources in Egypt and implement the government’s strategy 
on renewable energy.  Until 2001, most of NREA’s activities have been in the research and 
development field, and since then its activities have increasingly turned to the production of 
renewable energy. 
 
NREA’s strategy is to capitalize on Egypt’s abundant wind and solar natural resources to meet 
the renewable energy target set by the Government.  For this purpose it plans to install an 
additional 400MW of wind by 2010 and considers the construction of the proposed Solar 
Thermal Hybrid Power Plant (151MWe) a key development towards improving and diversifying 
its institutional and technical capacity in the area of renewable energy. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The primary objective of the project is to increase the share of solar-based power in the Egyptian 
generation mix thereby contributing to the Government’s aim of diversifying power production.   
The key performance indicators for the development objectives of the project include: 
a. 
Total electricity generated from solar field (GWh/year) 
b.  Solar output as a percentage of total energy produced by the hybrid plant. 
c. 
Total electricity generated from the ISCC power plant (GWh/year) 
 
The global development objective of the project is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 
anthropogenic sources by increasing the market share of low greenhouse gas emitting 
technologies. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
2
Energy intensity in Egypt in 20
04, defined as the energy consumption per unit of GDP was equal to 0.22 toe / 000’ 
95 US$, which is comparable to other oil producing countries in the region (Algeria: 0.20) and lower than others 
(Iran: 0.33), but higher than Western European countries such as Germany (0.18) and France (0.19). 
Page  3
3
The Operational Policy 7 (OP7) of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) supports the 
technological aims to increase market share of low greenhouse gas-emitting technologies that are 
not yet commercial, but show promise of becoming so in the future, and the World Bank has 
been ide
ntified as the main executing agency for the purposes of OP7.  In 1996, the GEF’s 
Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) recommended high temperature solar-thermal 
power technology (Concentrating Solar Power, CSP) as a renewable energy technology with 
significant cost reduction potential and replicability in countries in the world’s solar belt.    
As such, four projects in Egypt, India, Mexico and Morocco entered the GEF portfolio with a 
grant volume of US$200 million in total (US$50 million each).  The project in India has since 
been cancelled at the request of the Indian Government, while the projects in Mexico and 
Morocco are at advanced stages of preparation.   
In 2005, the GEF sponsored an updated review of the status of the technology and its potential 
for replication.
3
The review concluded that i) solar thermal electricity technology is worthy of 
continued support, ii) the benefits of a successful industry, particularly for developing countries, 
are significant, iii) the technology is not new and has been proven; however, it is still in the 
process of becoming competitive, and iv) the technology has the potential to follow a similar cost 
reduction curve as wind energy.  
The Bank’s current direct involvement in investment and advisory services across the energy 
sector in Egypt provides a good basis for development of sustainable energy solutions, including 
renewable energy, as it allows for substantial dialogue on the policy framework and 
implementation arrangements associated with and required for this project’s implementation, as 
well as larger scale development and replication of similar projects.  Finally, Bank involvement 
will also help attract strong bidders by ensuring the use of transparent and competitive 
procurement processes, as well as appropriate management of environmental and social impacts. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project will finance the construction of an Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) power 
plant, to be located in Kureimat, about 95 km south of Cairo, on the eastern side of the river Nile.  
The main innovation of an ISCC plant is the integration of steam generated by solar energy into 
a
combined cycle power plant, which will require a larger steam turbine to generate electrical 
energy from the additional solar-generated steam.   
The plant will have a capacity of about 150MW, combining a conventional fossil fuel portion of 
about 120MW and an input from solar sources of about 30MW.  When own consumption of 
5.3MW is deducted, the net overall plant capacity becomes 145.7MW.  The total net energy 
produced by the plant is expected to be 984 GWh per year, which includes the solar contribution 
of 64.5 GWh per year.  This corresponds to a solar share of 6.6% percent of the total annual 
energy produced by the plant operating at a full load.  The primary fuel for the conventional 
3
Assessment of the World Bank / GEF Strategy for the Market Development of Concentrating Solar Thermal 
Power, 2005/06 prepared by a group of experts from Global Research Alliance, Fraunhofer Institute for Solar 
Energy Systems, CSIRO Australia and CSIR South Africa. 
Page  4
4
fossil fuel portion will be natural gas supplied at the site by Egyptian Natural Gas Holding 
Company.  
The project will be implemented through the following components whose costs are estimated 
inclusive of import taxes on equipment and contingencies: 
Component 1: 
The design, construction and operation of the proposed Integrated Solar 
Combined Cycle Plant include two sub-components: 
(a) The solar portion of the power plant will include one contract for engineering, 
procurement, construction, testing, commissioning and five years operation and 
maintenance (O&M).  The solar island consists of a parabolic trough solar field 
capable of generating about 110 MW (thermal) of solar heat at a temperature of 
393°C, the related Instrumentation and Control (I&C) and control room and the heat 
transfer fluid (HTF) system up to the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the Solar Heat 
Exchanger(s). 
(b) The Combined Cycle portion of the plant will include one contract for the EPC aspect 
of the power plant financed by JBIC and a one 5 year O&M contract financed by 
NREA.  The combined cycle island shall consist of one or two gas turbine(s) with 
ISO rating of about 80 MWe (total), one or two heat recovery steam generator(s) 
(HRSG), one steam turbine of about 70 MWe, and solar heat exchanger(s) capable to 
absorb about 110 MW (thermal) solar heat plus all associated balance of plant 
equipment. 
Component 2
:
Comprises the
 
consulting contract to provide construction management services 
during the construction, testing and operation of the plant.  Its main task will be to: (a) review the 
detailed engineering designs with special attention to the interface between the solar and CCGT 
parts; (b) supervise the construction and environmental aspects of the power plant; (c) monitor 
the commissioning and guarantee tests; (d) prepare the O&M contract for the CCGT part; (e) 
provide assistance during the 2 years guarantee period as well as assisting NREA in monitoring 
and evaluation of the performance of the whole plant at least during the first two years of the 
O&M period; and (f) provide training and transfer of know-how in ISCC plant operation, with 
particular emphasis to dispatching and integration into the power system so that NREA staff can 
successfully take over the power plant after the respective O&M contracts expire. 
Component 3
:
Comprises the Environmental and Social Impact management component to be 
financed by NREA. This component will include the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP), which mitigates the potential environmental and social impacts 
associated with the construction and operation of the power plant. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 59.12 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
50.00 
JAPAN: JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 
92.33 
Page  5
5
(JBIC) 
 Total 
201.45 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Given that the proposed design has yet to be proven commercially world-wide, the Engineer, 
Procure and Construct (EPC) arrangements will be followed by 5-year Operation and 
Maintenance (O&M) contracts to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the ISCC plant 
and achievement of maximum output by the solar field.   There will be an O&M contract for 
each portion of the plant, but the O&M contract for the CCGT will be responsible for efficient 
operation of the entire plant as well as maximizing the output from both parts. 
The construction and operation of the ISCC power plant will be implemented in four separate 
contracts: (i) the construction and O&M of the solar island; (ii) the construction of the combined 
cycle island; (iii) the O&M of the combined cycle portion; and (iv) a construction management 
consulting contract for the supervision and integration of the solar and combined cycle islands.  
The arrangements will be secured using the international competitive bidding procurement 
method.  NREA, as the Executing Agency and as the mandated agency in Egypt to develop 
renewable resources, will be responsible for project management.  NREA will establish a Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by an experienced Project Manager who will report to the 
Deputy Chairman for Projects and Operation.  The PIU will be responsible for the day to day 
management activities of the proposed project and will be staffed by core specialists in technical, 
financing/accounting, procurement and environmental matters.   
The PIU will benefit from the assistance of the construction management consultant during the 
implementation of the overall project.  Its main tasks are described under section 4 (Project 
Components) above.  This contract will be for the duration of construction plus the two year 
guarantee period, which will coincide with the first two years of the two O&M contracts (i.e. a 
total of about 5 years).   
During the construction and in particular during the O&M period, NREA will assign counterpart 
personnel to the construction management consultant to ensure close coordination and transfer of 
knowledge with regard to the operation of the plant so that NREA can take over its operation 
when the 5 year O&M and construction management contracts expire, as well as monitor and 
document the project’s lessons learned.  It will be important that after the issuance of the 
operational acceptance certificate (30 months from start of construction), NREA revises and 
readjusts the PIU organizational structure to take into account the start-up of the 5 year O&M 
period, especially in terms of personnel.   
The project is expected to be constructed between 2007 and 2009, with operations commencing 
at the end of 2009. 
 
7. 
Sustainability and Replicability 
 
The Government of Egypt’s commitment to renewable energy resource development is strong 
as evidenced by its declared objective of diversifying energy sources, including having 3% of 
installed capacity represented by renewable energy by 2010 and the establishment of the 
Page  6
6
“petroleum fund” which provides economic incentive to renewable energy producers.  
Furthermore, although it is anticipated that most of the higher capital cost of the hybrid plant 
will be offset by the proposed GEF incremental cost grant, NREA has declared its willingness 
to finance incremental cost above US$50 million, recognizing the cap on GEF grant support to 
the project.  Finally, the integration of the solar field with a CCGT ensures that the hybrid will 
provide the required electricity contribution to the system regardless of solar radiation 
conditions.  For these reasons, the hybrid power plant is expected to operate sustainably as an 
integral part of the Egyptian power system.  The incentive structure for the solar and CCGT 
O&M operators will ensure efficient operation of the plant and optimal design for integration of 
the solar thermal with the gas-fired plant and maximize solar output from the plant when in 
operation.   
Dissemination of information about this project will contribute to possible future replication in 
other countries and to refining the GEF strategy regarding this technology.  Indeed, the general 
approach adopted by the project is highly replicable within Egypt, regionally and globally.  An 
early study carried out by the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) 
suggested that sites with ready access to gas supply, electricity evacuation and water 
infrastructure would be capable of supporting 5-10GW of solar thermal plant in Egypt alone.  
High insolation sites are available across much of the region, though many lack the necessary 
infrastructure at this time.  Worldwide there are suitable sites and, unlike other renewable 
technologies, solar thermal hybrid plants are inherently at utility scale.  Having said that, the 
main barriers to further replication are costs and the associated learning needs, the overcoming of 
which this project (and the ones in Mexico and Morocco) is expected to contribute to by 
providing a benchmark for costs and operational information and disseminating it throughout the 
solar thermal community.  However, it is unrealistic to expect that this project alone (or even 
combined with the two being prepared) will bring costs down to levels that are competitive with 
conventional power plants.  Further development of this technology outside of the GEF’s OP 7 is 
needed as well as possibly additional IFI support to additional projects. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Power Sector Development in Egypt 
NREA has gained significant experience in designing and implementing wind energy projects 
with international loan and grant financing.  Important lessons drawn from this experience 
include the importance of transparent and well-managed competitive bidding processes, which 
have contributed to attracting the interest and comfort of major international suppliers of wind 
technology with business transactions in Egypt.   
Furthermore, through the development of these projects, NREA has operated under Power 
Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with EEHC and has gained significant experience in structuring 
and negotiating such agreements.  This experience will be very useful for the proposed project, 
in which a PPA will need to be put in place as well as a Gas Purchase Agreement (GPA).  
Page  7
7
Solar Thermal Power Plant Development Worldwide 
No large scale solar thermal power plants have been built in developing countries to date, 
however several small-scale projects are under construction around the world.  At the moment, 
GEF-supported projects are also in preparation in Mexico and Morocco.  The most significant 
solar thermal installations are in California where 354MW of parabolic troughs, with back-up 
gas fired steam boilers have been generating electricity and selling it to the utility since the 
1980s.   
To meet the cost reduction objective of the project, it is necessary to move beyond the 
trough/backup boiler design upon which the California plant is based.  The purpose is to permit 
higher thermal efficiencies, improve the dispatchability of the plant and to encourage greater 
competition in the design and supply of equipment.  Such a plant would be more attractive to 
utilities, thus increasing the market size.  For this reason the project includes the following 
features: (i) price competition will be key, to ensure that low-cost components are used, 
wherever possible locally manufactured; and (ii) the contractor will have incentives to maximize 
output from the solar field, which will bring about a focus on O&M costs, thus bringing down 
life-cycle costs.   
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [
9
]
[
]
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
9
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
9
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
9
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
9
]
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1.  Conceptual Design for the ISCC 
–
January 2004 
2.  Draft Environmental Impact Assessment for 150 Mw Kuraymat Integrated Solar Combined 
Cycle Power Plant Project, June 2004 
3.  Assessment of the World Bank / GEF Strategy for the Market Development of Concentrating 
Solar Thermal Power, 2005/06 prepared by a group of experts from Global Research 
Alliance, Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems, CSIRO Australia and CSIR South 
Africa. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
8
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Anna Maria Bjerde 
Title: Lead Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3541 
Fax: (202) 614-4022 
Email: Abjerde@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
