                                     Initial Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                   Report No: AB662

Project Name                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - 2G-SOLAR THERMAL (GEF)
Region                            Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                            Renewable energy (50%); Power (50%)
Theme                             Other environment and natural resources management (P); Access to urban
                                  services for the poor (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)
Project                           P050567
Borrower(s)                       GOVT. OF EGYPT
Implementing Agency(ies)          NREA - NEW AND RENEWABLE ENERGY AUTHORITY
                                  Note: The GEF Grant would be disbursed as an up-front payment to contribute
                                  to the financing of the project.
                                  Address: Mohamed Abou El-Naga Str. - Hay El Zohor - Nasr City
                                  Contact Person: Eng. Hosni Hassan El-Kholy, Executive Chairman
                                  Tel: (20-2) 272-5895        Fax: (20-2) 271-7172           Email: nre2@idsc.net.eg
Environment Category              B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                 February 4, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date               May 2, 2005
Bank Approval Date                November 1, 2005

1. Country and Sector Background
Egypt has a rapidly expanding economy that is based on the availability of reliable and low cost electric
power. The rate of growth of electricity demand in Egypt has exceeded 6.5 percent per year over the past
10 years and is expected to remain in the 6-7 percent range over the next 10 years.

In line with the Egyptian structural adjustment policy, the power sector, operating under the direction of the
Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE), was unbundled and reorganized in 2001. Power operations are
organized under the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company (EEHC) and include five generation companies,
seven regional distribution companies and a single transmission company which retains responsibility for
the 500, 220 and 132kV transmission backbone; dispatching, planning for new power and transmission
projects; and for the purchase of power produced by IPPs. A regulatory board has been established,
chaired by the Minister of Electricity and with representatives from EEHC, other ministries and consumers.

In 2002, about 95 percent of the population was served by the electricity grid in Egypt. Of a total demand
of 83 TWh on the interconnected system, 78 percent was met by thermal plants, of which 90 percent was
supplied from natural gas and 10 percent heavy oil, 19 percent was met by large hydro (principally the
High Dam and Aswan 1&2), and electricity from IPPs, including wind accounted for 3 percent.

The Government of Egypt has a target of meeting 3% of its primary energy needs from renewable energy
by the year 2010. The New and Renewable Energy Authority (NREA), which was established under the
MEE in 1986, has responsibility for implementing the government's strategy to develop the renewable
resource in Egypt. Most of NREA's activities have been in the research and development field but since
2001, when the first wind farm was installed with NREA as executing agency, its activities have
increasingly turned to the production of green energy. In 2003, about 80% of its revenues were attributable
to electricity sales from 63 MW of installed wind capacity at Zafarana through a PPA with EEHC.

                                                         2
                                                                                                          PID


The proposed Project addresses GEF Operational Program 7 (OP7): reducing the long-term cost of low
greenhouse gas-emitting technologies. The project is one of four projects planned by GEF as part of the
benchmarking phase of the solar thermal area of the program.

OP7 aims to accelerate market penetration of several large-scale backstop technologies, such as solar
thermal power, that are constrained by high capital costs and high commercial risks. The strategy is to
identify projects that address national priorities, and then finance the incremental costs of investments,
capacity building and other activities that reduce market barriers. For solar thermal power, it is generally
agreed that significant cost reductions and eventual commercial acceptance can only begin to occur with the
implementation of several demonstration projects in carefully selected countries and sites.

Egypt is a particularly good candidate to host a solar thermal project with GEF support for three reasons.
First, the Government of Egypt is serious about materializing its renewable energy potential and has set a
target of 3 percent of installed capacity to be from renewable energy sources by 2010 (about
600MW-800MW). Second, all the necessary resources are present, namely: high insolation; gas for
co-firing; electricity network to interconnect to; adequate cooling water supplies; and vacant land for which
there is little alternative use. Third, the Egyptian power system offers ample opportunity for replication of
the project in Egypt and nearby countries, since it is rapidly expanding and is interconnected with
neighboring countries.

2. Objectives
National Development Objective. The national development objective of the project is to support the
further development of clean energy in Egypt, in this case solar, as a way to lower CO2 emissions in energy
generation. Furthermore, the project will add much needed capacity to the power grid which currently
operates with a very low capacity reserve margin.

Global Environment Objective.         The global environment objective is to contribute to improving the
economic attractiveness of solar thermal technology globally. The project will create global learning
effects that will contribute to a reduction in costs for the technology over the long-term.

The objectives will be achieved by demonstrating the technical and commercial viability and environmental
benefits of a solar thermal hybrid plant selling power through a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to the
national power utility, the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company (EEHC).

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Because of its current direct involvement in investment and advisory services across many sectors in Egypt,
its experience in the power sector in the past combined with knowledge of renewables investment, including
solar thermal power, the Bank, with the assistance of GEF, has a comparative advantage. The proposed
project involves the development of a proven but unusual technology through an EPC arrangement which
will be followed by a 5-year O&M contract to ensure proper operation and maintenance and maximum
output by the solar field. The project will be among the first of its kind in the world.

Bank involvement will help attract strong bidders through the use of transparent and competitive
procurement processes. Bank and GEF staff have acquired valuable experience in the past years in
developing projects for the commercial exploitation of large-scale grid-connected renewable energy
technologies, such as the wind farm projects in India and China. Furthermore, the Bank's experience in
developing similar solar thermal power projects in India, Mexico and Morocco will facilitate preparation
and implementation of this project. GEF financial commitment to the project is essential. Solar thermal
power plants are not yet competitive because of high capital costs and incomplete learning resulting from
the low level of deployment globally. Hence GEF support through the proposed grant will avoid Egypt
having to bear the incremental costs of the project and help bring down the long-term costs of the

                                                         3
                                                                                                         PID


technology.

4. Description
The proposed project will finance the construction of an Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) power
plant to be located in Kureimat, about 95 km south of Cairo, on the eastern side of the river Nile.
According to the baseline technical design parameters, the gross capacity of the Integrated Solar Combined
Cycle (ISCC) plant is about 151 MWe and will comprise of two gas turbines, one steam turbine, and one
parabolic trough solar field with a capacity of about 200 GWh/a (thermal) of solar heat plus all associated
balance of plant equipment. The share of generation attributed to solar measured by energy delivered
(solar share) is expected to be about 6.6 percent. The solar proportion ­ the generating capacity of the
solar field as a proportion of the total plant size ­ is expected to be about 20 percent.

Technical assistance and capacity building will be provided to NREA and EEHC; the activities will
include:

l Training of NREA/EEHC and regulatory staff in solar thermal power plant operations, with particular
    respect to dispatching and integration into the power system;
l Survey/assistance to local equipment suppliers/contractors to establish what components may be
    provided locally and to inform such suppliers of the opportunity future projects present;
l Monitoring/evaluation and dissemination of performance results from the project both domestically and
    internationally. The purpose of this activity is to support future replication.
l Consulting services for Project Management and support to NREA's PIU.

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($25.00)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($50.00)
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) ($72.00)
Total Project Cost: $147.00

6. Implementation
The project is to be implemented under an EPC (engineering, procurement, construction) arrangement with
a 5-year O&M (operation and maintenance) contract.               The contractor/supplier will be chosen by
international competitive bidding. Bidders will be given the maximum freedom of choice to meet the plant
specifications from the technological and financial points of view. The solar field will be of the proven
parabolic trough type, where 2 types of design are available (Euro-trough and LS-3). Plant configuration
will be optimized during the bidding and will only become definite when the winning bidder is selected. The
bid documents will be flexible and allow a range of power output in order to have sufficient competition.

7. Sustainability
The higher capital cost of the hybrid plant will be offset by the proposed GEF incremental cost grant and
no increase in tariffs will be required for cost recovery. The integration of the solar field with a CCGT
ensures that the hybrid will provide the required electricity contribution to the system regardless of solar
radiation conditions. For these reasons, the hybrid power plant is expected to operate sustainably as an
integral part of the Egyptian power system. The incentive structure for the EPC cum O&M will ensure
optimal design for integration of the solar thermal with the gas-fired plant and maximize solar output from
the plant when in operation. Dissemination of information about this demonstration project will contribute
to future replication in other countries and to refining the GEF strategy regarding this technology.

                                                        4
                                                                                                          PID


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
NREA has gained significant experience in designing and implementing wind energy projects with
international loan and grant financing.        Important lessons drawn from that experience include the
importance of a transparent and well-managed competitive bidding process. Another important lesson from
the development of the wind projects is that they have attracted the major international suppliers of wind
technology, demonstrating the interest and comfort of major suppliers with business transactions in Egypt.

Furthermore, through the development of these projects, NREA has operated under PPAs with the national
utility and has gained significant experience in structuring and negotiating such agreements.           This
experience will be very useful in the competitive bidding approach adopted for the solar thermal project, in
which a power purchase agreement will need to be put in place as well as a gas purchase agreements.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
       Issues  : The environmental impact of the plant, both at the local and regional/global levels, will be
minimal as the plant will utilize solar and natural gas. The use of solar power does not produce any
pollutants. The combustion of natural gas leads to the lowest level of CO2 emissions of any fossil fuel. In
addition, the combustion of natural gas does not entail SOx emissions and has significantly lower
emissions of NOx than other fuels. The heat transfer oil might leak and contaminate the soil. However,
appropriate treatment of contaminated soil has been included in the design of the project. No other adverse
environmental impacts, including on groundwater, are foreseen. Equally, no resettlement is foreseen and no
adverse social impacts are expected. The project may, on the contrary, impact poverty positively by adding
to the power capacity of Egypt. This is needed given the very low reserve margin that the system is
currently operating on. The GEF component will ensure that the poor are not adversely affected, as the
project will not impact on the current tariff levels in place.

10. List of factual technical documents:
1. Lahmeyer Feasibility Study (2000)
2. Fichtner Solar Technical Design Study (Draft - January 2004)

11. Contact Point:

       Task Manager
       Anna Bjerde
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
      Washington D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 473-3541
       Fax: (202) 477-1998

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

5
     PID

