Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/06/2006 
Report No.:  AC2542
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Project ID:  P050567 
Project Name:  SOLAR THERMAL HYBRID PROJECT 
Task Team Leader:  Anna Maria Bjerde 
GEF Focal Area: Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 30, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: February 15, 2007 
Managing Unit:  MNSIF 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Renewable energy (50%);Power (50%) 
Theme:  Other environment and natural resources management (P);Infrastructure services 
for private sector development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
50.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
59.12 
 
JAPAN: JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (JBIC)
92.33
151.45 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The primary project development objective is to increase the share of solar-based power 
in the Egyptian generation mix thereby contributing to the Government aim of 
diversifying power production.  
 
The global development objective of the project is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
from anthropogenic sources by increasing the market share of low greenhouse gas 
emitting technologies.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will finance the construction of an Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) 
power plant.  The plant will have a capacity of about 150MW, combining a conventional 
fossil fuel portion of about 120MW and an input from solar sources of about 30MW.  
The primary fuel for the conventional fossil fuel portion will be natural gas supplied at 
the site by Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company.  
Page  2
The project will be implemented through the following components:  
 
Component 1: The design, construction and operation of the proposed Integrated Solar 
Combined Cycle Plant, which includes:(a) the solar portion of the power plant, for which 
the contract will include engineering, procurement, construction, testing, commissioning 
and five years operation and maintenance (O&M); and (b) The Combined Cycle portion 
of the plant, which will include one contract for the EPC aspect of the power plant to be 
financed by JBIC, and another 5 year O&M contract to be financed by NREA.  
 
Component 2:  Comprises the Consulting Services to provide construction management 
services during project implementation.  
 
Component 3:  Comprises the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan 
(EMP) which mitigates the potential environmental and social impacts associated with 
the construction and operation of the power plant.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is located in Kureimat, about 95 km south of Cairo, on the eastern side of the 
river Nile.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Knut Opsal (MNSRE) 
Ms Dahlia Lotayef (MNSRE) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
There are no significant impacts anticipated. A comprehensive EIA following the EIA 
guidelines in OP 4.01 and under terms of reference cleared by the Bank has been carried 
Page  3
out. A draft EIA has been completed and disclosed in the InfoShop on September 14, 
2006 and in-country disclosure has also taken place.  
 
The EIA includes an assessment of air quality, aquatic environment, noise, flora and 
fauna, soils and hydrology, traffic and transport, socio-economic, archeological, natural 
disasters, solid waste management and occupational health and safety.  The EIA also 
establishes a detailed environmental management and monitoring program to be followed 
by NREA and its contractors during plant construction and operation.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Assessment using physical and mathematical models revealed that no unacceptable 
indirect or long term impacts exist assuming proper mitigation and monitoring schemes 
indicated in the Environmental Management Plan are implemented.  
 
There is no resettlement foreseen and no adverse social impacts are expected.  The GEF 
component will ensure that the poor are not adversely affected, as the project will not 
impact on the current tariff levels in place.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Project Configuration (ISCC):  Early discussion on how to implement GEF's Operational 
Policy 7 and the recent assessment of the World Bank/GEF Strategy for the Market 
Development of Concentrating Solar Thermal Power have raised the question of whether 
solar electricity generating systems with little fossil co-firing would have been a better 
configuration for the project rather than the ISCC configuration.  The assessment 
recognizes that there may be an issue in terms of perception with an ISCC plant with a 
solar contribution of only 6%.  However, the assessment also points out that a 30MW 
solar field in either configuration will still generate approximately the same amount of 
GWh/year of solar electricity and provide the same level of O&M experience, through 
having to maintain some 200,000 m2 of solar array.  As such, given Egypt?s interest in 
developing alternative energy solutions to fossil fuel based ones, and recognizing that 
there is a significant non-technical lead time associated with any new project (permits, 
authorities, contract administration, etc.) regardless of project capacity, the ISCC choice 
helps to meet the Egypt?s energy goals, while simultaneously deploying a solar field, a 
field that could have been deemed too hard for the sake of a 25-30MW plant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
NREA has not had experience with Bank requirements.  However, the construction and 
operation of recent wind farms are reported to have followed strict environmental 
discipline. NREA often collaborates and draws on assistance of the Environmental 
Management and Studies Department at the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company, 
which will assist NREA in the supervision of the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan, in addition to the international consultant being hired to provide 
construction management services to NREA. Overall, NREA with the assistance of 
Page  4
EEHC and the construction manager is believed to have the necessary capacity to carry 
out the task of EMP supervision.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Consultations with the affected people and the key stakeholders have taken place during 
the preparation of the EIA. These consultations took place after a first draft 
Environmental Assessment was available in late 2003/early 2004, and essentially took the 
form of focused group meetings.  A wide range of stakeholders were consulted in the 
finalization process of the EIA, which included representatives from the Kureimat 
villages and district, members of Local and People's Councils in Kureimat, as well as the 
Egyptian Electricity Holding Company, the Egyptian General Authority for Shore 
Protection the Supreme Council of Antiquities among many others.  
 
In addition, NREA is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with local authorities, 
industrial and commercial interests, as well as the local population during the plant's 
construction and operation.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/10/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/20/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
07/10/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The Environmental Assessment has been disclosed in-country, at the following places: 
NREA premises and EEAA.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Page  5
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Anna Maria Bjerde 
11/06/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Dahlia Lotayef 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Knut Opsal 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Jonathan D. Walters 
 
Comments:  This project has been transferred to the TTL and therefore does not require clearance 
from the Regional Environmental and Safeguards Coordinator. 
