                                               Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                                  Report No: ICR2173



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (TF-91289)



                                                  ON A

                                                GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 49.80 MILLION


                                                TO THE

                                  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                               FOR THE

                    KUREIMAT SOLAR THERMAL HYBRID PROJECT



                                             April 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Energy Unit
Middle East and North Africa

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization
                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 26, 2012)

                                                 Currency Unit
                                    LE – Egyptian Pounds 1.00 = US$ [0.165]
                                    US$ 1.00 = LE – Egyptian Pounds [6.04]

                                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                                   July 1- June 30
                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOO    Build Own Operate                           I&C         Instrumentation and Control
BOOT   Build Own Operate and Transfer              IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
BOT    Build Own Transfer                          IDA         International Development Association
CAA    Competent Administrative Authority          IPP         Independent Power Producer
CAO    Central Auditing Organization               IRR         Internal Rate of Return
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                 ISA         International Standards on Auditing
CC     Combined Cycle                              ISCC        Integrated Solar Combined Cycle
CCGT   Combined Cycle Gas Turbine                  ISDS        Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
COD    Commercial Operation Date                   JBIC        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
CSP    Concentrating Solar Power                   kWh         Kilowatt hour
CTF    Clean Technology Fund                       LEC         Levelized Electricity Costs
DCS    Distributed Control System                  MEE         Ministry of Electricity and Energy
DNI    Direct Normal Irradiation                   MJ/s        Mega joule Per Second
DOH    Days on Hand                                MOEE        Ministry of Energy & Electricity
DSCR   Debt-Service Coverage Ratio                 MTU         Mobile Test Unit
EEAA   Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency       NGO         Non-governmental Organizations
EEHC   Egyptian Electricity Holding Company        NPV         Net Present Value
EETC   Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company   NREA        New and Renewable Energy Agency
EHS    Environment, Health and Safety              O&M         Operation and Maintenance
EIB    European Investment Bank                    OCI         Orascom Constructions Industries
EMP    Environmental Monitoring Plan               PDO         Project Development Objective
ENP    European Neighborhood Policy                PIE         Project Implementation Entity
EPC    Engineer, Procure and Construct             PMU         Project Management Unit
ESIA   Environment and Social Impact Assessment    PPA         Power Purchase Agreement
ESMP   Environmental and Social Management Plan    PPF         Project Preparation Facility
FJP    Freedom Justice Party                       PPP         Public Private Partnership
FM     Financial Management                        Pt          Piasters (LE 0.01)
FMS    Financial Management System                 SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
FSC    Field Supervisory Control                   SFR         Self-Financing Ratio
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                      STAP        Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
GEF    Global Environmental Facility               Tcf         Trillion cubic feet
GoE    Government of Egypt                         TOR         Terms of Reference
GWh    Gigawatt Hour                               UAS         Unified Accounting System
HRSG   Heat Recovery steam Generator               WA          Withdrawal Application
HTF    Heat Transfer Fluid


                                       Vice President:      Inger Anderson
                                     Country Director:     A. David Craig
                                      Sector Director:     Junaid Ahmad Kamal
                                      Sector Manager:      Patricia Veevers-Carter
                                 Project Team Leader:      Chandrasekar Govindarajalu
                                    ICR Team Leader:       Fowzia Hassan
                       Egypt, Arab Republic Of
             KUREIMAT SOLAR THERMAL HYBRID PROJECT



                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design               1

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       9

3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 18

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              25

6. Lessons Learned                                                        29

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   30

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      32

Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             34

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    40

Annex 5. Technical Annex                                                  42

Annex 7. Beneficiary Survey Results                                       58

Annex 8. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          59

Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           60

Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders        63

Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents                                    64

MAP                                                                       65
                                     DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                          KUREIMAT SOLAR
                        Egypt, Arab Republic
Country:                                        Project Name:             THERMAL HYBRID
                        of
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P050567                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-91289
ICR Date:               04/26/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 GOVT. OF EGYPT
Original Total
                        USD 49.80M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 49.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 49.80M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 New and Renewable Energy Agency (NREA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/01/1997     Effectiveness:             12/16/2007        12/16/2007
Appraisal:            10/30/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/11/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   10/31/2011        10/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Renewable energy                                                     100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:           Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:         A. David Craig                       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:           Patricia Veevers-Carter              Jonathan D. Walters
Project Team Leader:      Chandrasekar Govindarajalu           Anna M. Bjerde
ICR Team Leader:          Fowzia Hassan
ICR Primary Author:       Fowzia Hassan
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objective of the project is to contribute to an increase in the share of renewable
energy in the Egyptian generation mix thereby contributing to the Governments aim of
diversifying electric power production.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from           Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval             Target     Completion or
                                              documents)            Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase the share of solar-based power in the Egyptian energy mix.
Value                                                                       35.1 GWh
(quantitative or 0                        33.4 GWh                          (based on limited
Qualitative)                                                                data)
Date achieved 12/11/2007                  06/06/2011                        10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Contribute to lower Co2 emissions in energy generation
Value
                                          20,000 tons of                    15,410-8710 tons of
(quantitative or 0
                                          Co2/year                          Co2/year
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2007                  06/06/2011                        10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Support the development and demonstration of the operational viability of the
Indicator 3 :
                 ISCC configuration, and contribute to its replication
                                                                            Monitored
                                          Monitored during                  construction and
                                          construction and                  operation of the
                                          operation of the                  plant, which was
                                          plant and will be                 reported on a
Value                                     reported on a                     quarterly basis. The
(quantitative or 0                        quarterly basis.                  dissemination is
Qualitative)                              The dissemination                 still to be
                                          to be determined                  determined based
                                          based in lessons                  on lessons learned
                                          learned during                    during
                                          implementation.                   implementation via
                                                                            the ICR.
Date achieved 12/11/2007                  05/18/2011                        10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Solar output as percentage of total energy produced in the hybrid plant.
Value
(quantitative or   0                           4%                                4.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/11/2007                  05/18/2011                        10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Total electricity generated from the ISCC plant (GWh/year)
Value
                                                                                 860 GWh-842
(quantitative or   0                                              852 GWh
                                                                                 GWh
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/11/2007                                     05/18/2011     10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                 Solar output completed and operational with a generation capacity of about
Indicator 1 :
                 20MW.
Value                                                                        Plant has reached
                                          Plant is
(quantitative or 0                                                           commercial
                                          operational
Qualitative)                                                                 operation.
Date achieved 12/11/2007                  06/06/2011                         10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                GEO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     12/23/2007              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/13/2008              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     11/23/2008              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   35.52
  4     06/02/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
  5     12/23/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
  6     06/30/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
  7     01/28/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
  8     06/25/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Issues

1.      Reliable electricity supply is critical for normal functioning of any modern
economy. The power sector in Egypt plays a vital underpinning role in economic and
social development, creating conditions for growth, job creation, and provision of social
services. Egypt is a fully electrified country, as more than 99 percent of households are
connected to the electricity grid. However, reliability of supply needs improvement and
electricity infrastructure needs to be expanded as economic and population growth
require continuing increase in electricity generation in particular, but also in the
associated electricity transmission and distribution networks.

2.       At the time of appraisal in 2006, Egypt was already well on its way to adopting a
comprehensive economic reform program, a major objective for the new government that
took office in 2004. An important driver for these economic reforms was the need to
ensure adequate investments in infrastructure, while addressing rising fiscal deficits that
rose from 3.9% in FY00 to 9.6% in FY05. The key measures included: (i) increasing
retail utility prices, including increases in electricity and gas prices; (ii) reducing custom
tariffs; (iii) reducing price controls and subsidies on basic products, including diesel-fuel;
(iv) increasing interest in the potential for public-private partnerships (PPPs); and (v)
strengthening and reorganizing the privatization program under the Ministry of
Investment established in June 2004. GoE remained committed to providing public safety
nets comprising of various subsidies, employment programs and cash transfers.

Sector Issues

3.      As part of the GoE sector reforms, the electricity sector was unbundled in 2001
and was pursuing further reforms in market development, such as liberalization and
greater regional integration. The Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MOEE) had
ambitious plans to develop competition in the sector consistent with the implementation
of further tariff increases and on-going improvement in the efficiency of the subsidiary
companies. The aim was to gradually open the sector, starting with the generation
segment. To facilitate this reform, a regulatory agency was established and an electricity
law was under formulation. A higher energy council, called the supreme energy council,
was established under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister and with members
represented by the Ministers of electricity, petroleum, finance, planning and economic
development. This council was to review energy alternatives, their economics as well as
guide overall energy policy and planning.

4.      The average increase in electricity demand in the country had been growing
rapidly. Between 1997/98–2003/04 the increase averaged out to 7% and was expected to
remain in the 6%–7% range over the next 10 years. Installed capacity of electric power
was 20,452 MW in 2005/2006, of which 85% comprised thermal power (10% of which is
                                            1
provided by the private sector through three Independent Power Producers, IPPs). The
GoE’s strategy was to continue to implement gas fired power plants, with a long-term
view to increase the share of combined cycle gas turbine technology in the generation
mix. In addition, the GoE was targeting meeting 3% of its electricity needs from
renewable energy sources by 2010; and 20% by 2020.

5.       At the time of appraisal, Egypt’s natural gas played a key role in electricity
production. Domestic gas consumption was dominated by the power sector at 65%,
followed by the fertilizer industry, petrochemicals and other industrial sectors. The price
of natural gas to industries as well as the power sector had been set at 21 Pt/m3
(US$1/MMbtu), but an increase over a 3 year period was announced in May 2006 for the
industrial sector which saw the gas price increase to US$2.65/MMbtu by the third year,
the most current prices being US$3.0/MMbtu1. Proven reserves were estimated at 67.2
trillion cubic feet (Tcf), with an additional 120 Tcf identified as probable and possible
reserves. 2 However, to meet projected domestic demand (industrial, commercial and
residential) and export demand (via pipelines and liquefied natural gas terminals) over the
next 20 years, it was estimated that about 15 Tcf would be required, which left Egypt
with a proven Reserves/Production (R/P) ratio of over 80 years.

6.      New & Renewable Energy Authority (NREA) was established in 1986 to act as
the national focal point for expanding efforts to develop and introduce renewable energy
technologies to Egypt on a commercial scale by implementing projects.

7.      At the time of appraisal, NREA had installed 430 MW of wind-energy capacity
and more than 1000 MW of projects were in the pipeline. The wind power plants were
performing well with some of the highest capacity factors in the world in the range of
over 40%. In February 2008, the Supreme
Council of Energy of Egypt, headed by the
Prime Minister, approved an ambitious plan
targeting to have 20% of the total energy
generation capacity from renewables by year
2020. At the time of this ICR, renewable
energy accounts for about 13% of installed
capacity in which wind accounts for less than
2% (522 MW) and the remaining is from large
hydro projects. It is expected that total wind
capacity will reach 7200 MW by 2020.
                                                          Figure .1: New & Renewable Energy Authority
                                                                            (NREA)




1
    Source: Personal communication Ministry of Petroleum, March 2012.

2
    Source: Ministry of Petroleum, July 2005.


                                                  2
8.       In addition, the Kureimat Integrated Solar Combined Cycle plant (ISCC) with a
capacity of a 140 MW (including 20 MW solar), recently reached commercial operation.
The proposed Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) project with capacity of 100 MW in Kom
Ombo city of Aswan Governorate, supported by the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) as
part of the MENA regional CSP Investment Plan3, is expected to become operational in
2015. NREA has significant experience in managing donor funded public projects.
However, looking to the future of renewable energy development in Egypt, a dedicated
project development company with a commercial orientation would be needed to be able
to attract private investment and donor support. Morocco’s experience in establishing the
Moroccan Agency of Solar Energy (MASEN) is notable in this regard and offers a useful
institutional model that could be considered in Egypt.

9.      As an incentive for the development of renewable energy, the Government of
Egypt (GoE) had established a financial mechanism called the Petroleum Fund, where
producers of non-fossil fuel electricity receive 2 Pt/kWh (equivalent to 0.33 US
cents/kWh). This mechanism accelerates development of renewable energy by sharing
with developers the additional export revenues generated from fuel savings derived.
Though the level of incentive under this fund is very small, this demonstrates GoE’s
positive intent in developing innovating financing mechanisms for supporting renewable
energy development.

Rationale for Bank involvement

10.     At the time this project was being prepared, the Bank had successfully re-engaged
in a high-level partnership with the country’s energy sector after a gap of some years. The
project was also contributing to the goals, articulated in the CAS for Egypt, which
included enhancing the provision of public goods through, inter alia, modernized
infrastructure services to achieve higher growth. The GoE and the Bank were engaged in
an intensive policy dialogue in this key sector, and a comprehensive program of financial
and technical support had developed. Reliability and long-term involvement were the
foundation of this relationship. In the new partnership and dialog, support for renewable
energy was emerging as a key area for support by the Bank.

11.     The project was designed to integrate conventional combined cycle gas turbines
with solar thermal technology, with the strategic view of contributing towards
introducing renewable energy in developing countries. As noted in the Bank’s report to
the Development Committee on the Clean Energy Investment Framework, incentives are
needed to induce technological change suitable for a low carbon economy. The proposed
project was to demonstrate how de-carbonizing of the power sector could be facilitated
by the large-scale development of new energy production technologies.




3
 The MENA Regional CSP Investment plan targets about 1 GW of installed capacity in five participating
countries – Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt, and Jordan.


                                                3
12.      The Kureimat Solar Thermal Hybrid project was strategic for the achievement of
the objectives of GEF’s Operational Program 7 (OP7), which aimed to reduce, over the
long-term, the costs of energy technologies with low greenhouse gas emissions, and
which are currently not cost-competitive. The project was one of a series of similar
projects supported by the GEF in Morocco as well as Mexico4 which together contribute
to the key higher level GEF objective of learning and dissemination of that learning. In
this way, Egypt, GEF, and the Bank were jointly participating in what could be a very
promising global experiment to encourage and accelerate global deployment of CSP
through demonstration, learning and dissemination. Numerous papers and conceptual
design studies supported this approach, and the sound operation of the parabolic trough
Solar Electric Generation Systems(SEGS) plants in the Mojave Desert of California since
the mid-1980’s provided a firm foundation for this step (e.g., see Price, H., Lüpfert, E.,
Kearney, D., Zarza, E., Cohen, G., Gee, R., Mahoney, R., 2002. “Advances in Parabolic
Trough Solar Power Technology? Journal of Solar Energy Engineering, Vol. 124, no. 2,
pp. 109-125). The resulting fully dispatchable plants with GEF support were to be the
first-of-a-kind demonstrating the ISCC design configuration.

1.2 Original Development Objectives (DO) and Global Environment Objectives
(GEO) and Key Indicators

13.     The objective of the project was to increase the share of solar-based electricity in
the Egyptian energy generation mix thereby contributing to the Government’s objective
of diversifying electric power production.

14.    The key performance indicators 5 for the development objectives of the project
include:

        a. Total electricity generated from solar sources (GWh/year).
        b. Solar output as a percentage of total energy produced by the hybrid plant (%).
        c. Total electricity generated from the ISCC power plant (GWh/year).

15.    The global development objective of the project was to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions from anthropogenic sources by increasing the market share of low greenhouse
gas emitting technologies.

16.    As indicated above, the key higher level objective of this project was to
demonstrate the operational viability of hybrid solar thermal power generation
technology and contribute to the replication of ISCC power generation technology in

4
 GEF Solar thermal portfolio initially comprised of projects in four countries, Egypt, Morocco, India and
Mexico. The Morocco and Egypt projects have been commissioned while the India project was dropped
subsequently and Mexico project is under implementation.

5
 At the time of project negotiation indicators were revised. Two financial indicators, Debt Service
Coverage Ratio (DSCR) and Self Financing Ratio (SFR) were included and all five indicators are being
monitored. See Annex 2.


                                                  4
Egypt and elsewhere through the learning effect provided by its construction and
operation, and through economies of scale as use of the technology spreads. It was one of
several similar projects in the world supported by GEF, and by other financing sources,
as part of a global programmatic effort to accelerate cost reduction and commercial
adoption of large-scale low greenhouse emitting generation technologies through
demonstration, learning and dissemination. Secondarily, the project was to make a
modest direct contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.

17.    To evaluate the performance of the project in achieving this global objective, the
following indicators 6were chosen:
     Indicator 1.Total electricity generated from solar sources (GWh/year).
       Target value: 33.4 GWh
     Indicator 2. Contribute to lower CO2 emissions in energy generation.
       Target value: 20,000 tons of CO2/year
     Indicator 3. Support the development and demonstration of the operational
       viability of the ISCC configuration and contribute to it replication.
       Target value: monitoring during construction and operations
     Indicator 4. Increase the share of solar-based power in the Egyptian energy mix.
       Target value: 4 %
     Indicator 5. Total electricity generated from the ISCC plant (GWh/year).
       Target value: 852 GWh

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

18.     The development and global environment objectives as well and key performance
indicators remained unchanged during project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

19.    The main beneficiaries of this project were the GoE and NREA, as well as the
people of Egypt.

Job Creation

20.     During construction most labor was hired locally and both the Combined Cycle
Island as well as the Solar Island contributed to job creation. All road works and
modifications of the main access roads, earth work of leveling the site to erect the steel
structures, civil engineering, erection of the solar collectors and excavation works of the
electrical building in the Solar Island, were all performed with local manpower. In
operation, the plant employs 220 local people full time staff including highly skilled
engineers as well as unskilled labor.



6
  During project negotiations, the only additional indicator for measuring global objectives was emission
reduction of CO2.


                                                   5
Social and Economic Inclusion

21.    The plant generates enough electricity to serve about 500,000 households, which
contributes to better living standards and economic growth.

22.     The Project helped Egyptian companies move into the innovative CSP technology,
as the lead contractor for the Solar Island was Orascom, an Egyptian company. Orascom
was supported by German sub-contractor Flagsol. Under Orascom, a number of local
firms provided materials and services for the construction of this plant, generating about
60% of the Solar Island’s value. Most steel supply and erection of the steel structures that
supported the parabolic trough were from national steel companies. It is estimated that for
the Solar Island alone, approximately 3,200 tons of steel was supplied to the site.
Mounting structures and tubes were fabricated by National Steel Fabrication Company
(NSF), another Egyptian steel company. In addition, cables were supplied locally and
local contractors took part in executing civil works. Solar collectors were assembled
close to the project site by Orascom from pre-fabricated welded steel parts supplied by
local companies (sub-suppliers). With this experience, Orascom and other Egyptian
companies such as NSF have gained valuable experience in this new technology and are
already participating in bids in other countries in the region.

23.     In addition to the above, the environmental and social impact analyses and
mitigation plans under the project also supported social and economic inclusion.

Accelerating Sustainable Growth

24.    This solar thermal hybrid power plant operates as an integral part of the Egyptian
power system contributing to electricity generation, a key input for sustainable economic
growth. Dissemination of information on the learning from this demonstration project
will contribute to future replication in other countries and also inform GEF’s strategy for
supporting advanced technologies. The approach adopted by the project is replicable
within Egypt, regionally and globally.

Capacity Strengthening Framework

25.    The project is particularly helpful in building institutional capacity in the area of
CSP. As part of the Solar Island O&M contract, structured on the job training for NREA
staff was included and is already underway in order to build experience and capacity at
NREA.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

26.     The project was to finance the construction of an ISCC power plant, located at
Kureimat, about 95 km south of Cairo, on the eastern side of the river Nile. This project,
and other ISCC projects financed by GEF, were conceptualized in 1997 as Independent
Power Producer (IPP) projects but were restructured as a public projects as there was
limited private sector interest and GoE’s policy change with respect to IPPs based on
their experience. This policy change was the result of increased cost to the Government

                                           6
from IPPs through the take or pay contracts mostly denominated in US$ in conjunction
with the devaluation of the Egyptian pound. This caused a significant delay in moving
from concept review to appraisal. Another cause of delay was the separation of bidding
and construction of the Solar Island and the Combined Cycle Island portions at the strong
preference of co-financier JBIC (now JICA). The Government, although recognizing the
increased risks of this approach, decided to go in that direction eventually. In 2004, the
Kureimat project received interest for co-financing from JBIC which eventually provided
co-financing for the project.

27.     The plant was to have a combined capacity of about 140 megawatt (MW) gross
output, including 20 MW of solar capacity. Self consumption was expected to be 6.3 MW,
leaving the net overall plant capacity of 133.7 MW. The total net energy produced by the
plant was expected to be 852 GWh per year, which included the solar contribution of 29
GWh per year. This corresponded to a solar share of 4 % of the total annual energy
produced by the plant operating at a full load.

28.       The project was to be implemented through three components.

Component 1: The design, construction and initial operation of the proposed
Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Plant include two sub-components:

      (a) The solar portion of the power plant (US$111 million; of which GEF financed
          US$49.8 million and NREA US$61.2 million) included one contract for
          engineering, procurement, construction, testing, commissioning and two years
          operation and maintenance (O&M). The Solar Island was to consist of a parabolic
          trough solar field capable of generating 20 MW of solar heat at a temperature of
          393°C, the related Solar Island Control System and the heat transfer fluid (HTF)
          system up to the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the Solar Heat Exchanger(s).

      (b) The capital cost of the combined cycle portion of the plant (US$201 million; of
          which JICA 7 was to finance US$151.3 million and NREA US$49.7 million)
          included the Engineer, Procure and Construct (EPC) contract for the Combined
          Cycle Island. The Combined Cycle Island was to consist of one gas turbine with
          ISO rating of about 74.4 MW, one heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), one
          steam turbine of about 76.5 MW (nominal), and solar heat exchanger(s) capable
          to absorb about 60 MW (thermal) solar heat plus all associated balance of plant
          equipment.

Component 2: Capacity building to NREA through consulting services for
construction management during the construction, testing and operation of the
plant (US$6.36 million, including price contingency). The capacity building to focus
on: (a) detailed engineering designs with special attention to the interface between the
solar and CCGT parts; (b) supervising the construction and environmental aspects of the


7
    JBIC’s ODA departments were merged with JICA in 2008.


                                                7
power plant; (c) monitoring the commissioning and guarantee tests; (d) preparing the
O&M contract for the CCGT part in terms satisfactory to the Bank. (e) providing
assistance during the 2 year guarantee period as well as assisting NREA in monitoring
and evaluation of the performance of the whole plant at least during the two years of the
O&M period; and (f) providing training and transfer of know-how in ISCC plant
operation, with particular emphasis to dispatching and integration into the power system
so that NREA staff can successfully take over the power plant after the respective O&M
contracts expire.

Component 3: Environmental and Social Impact management component financed
by NREA (US$0.45 million, including price contingency). This component included the
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which mitigated the
potential environmental and social impacts associated with the construction and operation
of the power plant.

Total project cost was estimated at US$327.57 million. The breakdown of the project
components at appraisal is provided in table1.

                               Table 1: Project cost break down at appraisal

                          Equipment/ Work       Others, Taxes &        2-year O&M
        Items                                                                           Total
                               Cost              Contingencies             Costs
Component 1
 a) Solar Island                 98.74                6.10                 6.15         110.99
 b) CC Island                   184.69                16.28                8.80         209.77
Component 2
 Capacity Building                6.00                0.36             Not applicable    6.36
Component 3
 EMP                             0.425                0.025            Not applicable    0.45


Total                           289.86                22.76                14.95        327.57
Note: Amounts are expressed in US$ million

1.6 Revised Components

29.     The above mentioned project components were not revised during
implementation. However, the O&M for the Combined Cycle Island was not contracted
out as originally planned. NREA was to seek the Bank’s comments on the draft contract
before requesting proposals. The RFP was submitted to the Bank and commented on,
however during the course of bidding NREA indicated that the approach of hiring O&M
consultants was being reconsidered due to high costs. Instead, an internal cadre drawn
from experienced CCGT operators from Egyptian generation companies was created.
The Bank emphasized the need to incorporate CSP operations expertise within the new
approach.


                                                  8
1.7 Other significant changes

30.     In the initial conceptual design, the Solar Island was projected to be the equivalent
of 30MW capacity. However, after bidding (bidding was completed before Board
approval) this was revised to a 20 MW at the request of the Government. Majority of
financing for the Solar Island was provided by the Government as the GEF grant amount
was not adequate. The capacity of the Combined Cycle Island, however, was not changed
from its original projected size of about 140 MW gross.

31.     During the course of implementation, both EPC contractors were delayed in
meeting targets of commercial operation dates by almost one year (see Annex 5 for
details). The main reason was the delay in disbursement of the second tranche of co-
financing from the JICA8, which led to suspension of the construction of the Combined
Cycle Island for several months. As a consequence, this delay also impacted completion
of work by the Solar Island EPC contractor due to the inability to carry out equipment
acceptance tests without full function of the Combined Cycle Island. The political unrest
leading to the revolution in Egypt in early 2011 also led to the contractors having to leave
the country for several weeks, causing additional schedule delays. The cumulative effect
of these delays led to completion and acceptance of the full ISCC plant about 9 months
behind the original projected schedule (Original schedule was Oct 2010 and actual
commercial operation was started in June 2011).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

32.     In the mid-1990’s, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), through the World
Bank, decided to allocate grants up to $50 million each to four so-called ISCC projects of
this design in Egypt, Morocco, Mexico and India. In doing so, the GEF and World Bank
saw an opportunity to encourage and accelerate global deployment of CSP. The proposed
design of the plants was logically based on parabolic trough experience in California,
combined cycle experience in Egypt and elsewhere, and careful evaluations and
conceptual design studies on integration of the two technologies. Numerous papers and
conceptual design studies supported this approach, and the excellent operation of the
parabolic trough SEGS plants in the Mojave Desert of California since the mid-1980’s
provided a firm foundation for this step. The four plants were to be the first-of-a-kind
demonstrating the ISCC design configuration and expected to contribute to global
learning. This plan was thoroughly evaluated in an assessment9 carried out by a team of


8
  For the Combined Cycle Island contract, the first letter of credit was issued on 11 Dec. 2007 in the
amount of JPY 9,885,000,000. The second and final letter of credit in the amount of JPY 7,545,000,000 on
26 May 2009 making total amount of JPY 17,430,000,000. (Contract price for foreign portion).

9
 “Assessment of the World Bank/GEF Strategy for the Market Development of Concentrating Solar Power?
World Bank/GEF, 2006


                                                 9
independent CSP experts, and reviewed by a large experienced segment of the CSP
community.

33.     The first two countries to move projects forward for ISCC were Morocco and
Egypt- the project in India was dropped and the Mexico project is under implementation.
Based on the previous work in this area, the Egypt Kureimat project was planned to
demonstrate the integration of a parabolic trough solar field with an otherwise
conventional fossil-fired combined-cycle power plant, and support the objective to
increase the share of solar-based electricity in the Egyptian energy generation mix,
thereby contributing to the Government’s objective of diversifying electric power
production. Given the relatively modest solar contribution, however, the key higher level
objective was learning through demonstration.

34.     During the preparation of this project, the key technical challenge was rightly
identified as the integration and performance of the Solar and Combined Cycle Islands.
Further, in order to meet the requirements of the financing sources, the Government had
to separate the procurement of the two portions, resulting into two contracts (one for
Solar Island and one for the Combined Cycle Island). Accordingly, the integration and
performance problems mainly due to these separate contractors was identified as a “high?
risk and mitigation measures were incorporated as explained in para 35 and 36 below.

35.     To mitigate construction risks the following was deemed necessary: (i) inclusion
in the completed procurement process of data exchange between the two winning
bidders; (ii) hiring of a construction management consulting firm for the supervision and
integration of the Solar and Combined Cycle Islands; and (iii) hiring an experienced
operator for O&M of the Combined Cycle Island with responsibility to coordinate
operation with the O&M operator of the Solar Island.

36.     To mitigate performance risks, incentive mechanisms were built in as below: (i)
the heat production of the Solar Island was linked to the solar irradiation available and if
not met, the Solar Island contractor would be penalized; (ii) The Combined Cycle Island
was checked for electricity production as a function of solar heat supplied by the solar
island.

37.     The site was selected to comprise an uninhabited flat desert area, high intensity
direct solar radiation which reaches 2400 kWh/m2/year, proximity to the extended
unified power grid as well as natural gas pipelines, and proximity to water sources
(primarily the Nile River). Four sites had been initially considered (Red Sea Coast, Sinai
Peninsula, West Desert and Kureimat) and the Kureimat site was selected due to the
minimal additional infrastructure required because of the proximity to the El Kuriemat
Power Plant 750 MW Combined Cycle power plant. Although the impact of the
emissions from proposed Kureimat ISCC plant on the air and water quality was studied
adequately, the quality of the ambient air environment was deemed of appropriate quality
for the operation of the plant itself. As per the ESIA “No industry, other than the existing
power plant, is present near the site. Thus, the air in the background atmosphere is of
appropriate quality?.

                                          10
2.2 Implementation

38.      The implementation of the project by NREA was a logical choice given its
institutional role in introducing and promoting renewable energy projects in Egypt.
NREA received full support from the Ministry of Energy and Electricity during
implementation of this project and also received support from the Egyptian Electricity
Holding Company (EEHC) in building its capacity to develop and implement large
projects.

39.     NREA established a Project Implementation Entity (PIE) at the project site
headed by a project manager, and staffed with specialists in technical, financial,
procurement and environmental matters, some of whom were based at the NREA head
quarters. The PIE was responsible for day to day management as well as compliance
with the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The PIE benefitted from the assistance
of the construction management consultant, Fichtner, during implementation.

40.    The organizational structure to implement the project is shown below. There were
four contracts planned to undertake construction and supervision: (i) EPC contractor for
the Solar Island (ORASCOM with Flagsol) with 2 year O&M; (ii) EPC contractor for the
Power Combined Cycle Island (IBERDROLA); (iii) Construction and implementation
supervision consultant (Fichtner) with a 2 year overlap during operations; and (iv) A 7
year O&M contract for the Combined Cycle Power Island, which eventually did not take
place due to the high bids received.




                Figure 2: Organization of the Solar and Combined Cycle Islands

41.      The split of EPC contractors for the Solar Island and Combined Cycle Island is
illustrated in the figure 2 above. More detailed organizational structures were developed

                                           11
for the construction and O&M phases. Imported components included mirrors, heat
collector element (HCE), control system, heat transfer fluid (HTF), main/aux. pumps,
heater, swivel joints, instrumentation, valves, commissioning equipment and quality
control for collector assembly.

42.     With hindsight, however, it is likely that the site selection missed an important
factor – the corrosive nature of the ambient air environment at the Kureimat site. Given
that there were no known cases of poor air quality impacting solar fields in the sizable
capacity of projects under operation in the U.S since mid-eighties, this issue had no
precedence among practitioners conducting feasibility studies or ESIAs. During
construction, PIE identified problems together with the construction consultant and took
corrective remedial action in association with the contractors. For example, it was found
that that spring plate of the solar collectors were starting to corrode and upon examination,
the quality of the material was found to be unsuitable. Consequently, the contractor
replaced the spring plates. Similarly, analyses in 2009 revealed high concentrations of
Sulfur in the environment that resulted in corrosion of chromatic bearings of torque tubes
and Hydraulic pistons of the drive pylons. This issue was overcome by installing
corrosion resistant pistons, use of special cleaners on the surface of the bearings followed
by spraying a protective Zinc-Aluminum layer. Additionally, rubber bellows were
mounted over the torque tube to protect the surface from severe environmental conditions.
The contractor ORASCOM played a responsive and active role in resolving issues that
arose during the construction (See Annex 5).

43.    Quarterly progress reports were submitted regularly to the Bank by NREA.
However, these reports focused mainly on construction progress but did not reflect the
corrosion issue. Only the final completion report addressed this issue in detail.

44.     The Combined Cycle Island O&M Contract was eventually dropped after bidding.
According to NREA, this was due to high costs (at appraisal it was expected to be
US$8.8 million and financed by NREA for a 7 year contract). Instead, an internal cadre
of experienced CCGT operators was drawn from Egyptian generation companies and
utilized, which was deemed acceptable by the Bank given the extensive operating
experience for such plants in Egypt. According to NREA, the bid prices were three times
more than expected at appraisal value and for this reason, NREA hired 45 qualified
engineers from Egyptian generation companies to assist in plant operation and
maintenance. While supportive of utilizing local skills to operate the plant, the Bank,
however, emphasized the need to have CSP expertise on the Combined Cycle Island side
as well.

45.     As a result of the above change in contracting structure, NREA took on more
risks than envisaged at the time of project design. In the initial design, the O&M
contractor for the Combined Cycle Island was responsible for optimal utilization of the
solar steam in the Combined Cycle Island as well as the O&M of the plant.




                                          12
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

46.    Commercial Operation: As explained in section 1.7, the project was delayed by
about 9 months from the projected commercial operation date (COD). The project
duration was expected to cover an estimated three years of construction time and part of
the two year O&M time with a view to capturing lessons learned in line with the project’s
development objectives and rationale for GEF support. However, given the construction
delays and the ICR being written within a few months after start of commercial
operations during which time maintenance issues were faced, it is able to capture only
early O&M experience.

47.      Following COD, the Solar Island shows excellent performance at or exceeding
warranted output during the times when solar operation is possible. In this regard, the
ability to fully operate the collectors and deliver warranted output appears to be high due
to several reasons:

   a) Overdesign of the heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) and solar heat
      exchangers (HEXs) for a total 150 MW capacity compared to the final
      implementation of 140 MW gross plant electricity capacity, which allows for high
      utilization of thermal output from the solar field. This is not a normal design
      feature, and apparently is the result of the split EPC contract and other factors
      such as reduction of Solar Island capacity from 30 MW to 20 MW. In discussions
      with the supplier, it proved to be cost-effective to retain the bottoming cycle
      equipment at the original capacities. The reduction of the solar capacity was
      necessary due to insufficient financing for the Solar Island at 30 MW.

   b) Good design and construction practices of the Solar Island. Peak output at high
      solar conditions exceeds the nominal design capacity, and in monthly periods of
      continuous Solar Island operation the performance appears to exceed warranted
      levels by up to 5-10%. Since the Combined Cycle Island has been designed and
      constructed to utilize increased levels of Solar Island output, the plant output
      benefits by achieving a higher solar field capacity factor.

48.      The full-power acceptance test of the Combined Cycle Island and the 30 day
reliability test were completed during June 2011 and commercial operation started on
June 28, 2011. Since that time, the Combined Cycle Island has been facing maintenance
issues, causing significant periods in which the plant was either entirely off-line or in a
gas turbine-only mode. However, the issues faced are largely attributable to limited
experience in managing power plants and contractors at NREA as well as delayed
response by the contractor and their vendors. The current combined cycle output appears,
based on limited data, to be 5-10% under design capacity.

49.     Solar Field Integration: The primary project goal of integrating a high
temperature solar field with a conventional combined-cycle plant has been successfully
achieved. However, maintenance issues related to operation of the Combined Cycle
Island have limited normal operation of the complete system as designed.


                                          13
50.     Further, a current operating problem exists with feedwater entry into the heat
transfer fluid (HTF) of the Solar Island, with leakage occurring at the tube sheets of the
solar heat exchanger train, which is part of the Combined Cycle Island. Maintenance
steps are being taken to correct this deficiency, specifically taking the leaking HEX train
out of operation to examine the tube sheets and repair as necessary to stop leakage. Water
in the HTF causes cavitation in the HTF pumps and, as the volume percentage of water
increases above an acceptable limit, requires removal of the water for proper operation.

51.    Technical Annex: More details on the design, construction and early O&M
experience are provided in Annex 5.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment Safeguards

52.     The proposed project falls under the World Bank environmental category B
classification due to the fact that the impacts are expected to be site-specific. The
environmental impacts of this project during the construction and operation phases were
properly identified in the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) report, and
the mitigation measures and monitoring plan were detailed in the environmental
management plan (EMP) contained therein. An environmental team member was
assigned to the PIE to oversee safeguards implementation. All Bank supervision missions
for this project after 2008 included an environmental team member to oversee safeguards
implementation, and a specific section (and an annex) on safeguards was included in
every mission Aide Memoire.

53.    The evaluation and forecasting of the local environmental conditions was not
adequately undertaken in the ESIA. As per the ESIA “No industry, other than the existing
power plant, is present near the site. Thus, the air in the background atmosphere is of
appropriate quality?. With hindsight, however, it is clear that the site selection missed an
important factor – the corrosive nature of the ambient air environment at the Kureimat
site.

Progress during Project Implementation

54.     During the early phases of implementation (2008), the environmental mitigation
and monitoring measures were not adequately conducted nor thoroughly reported. For
instance during the first missions, most of the staff on site were not aware of the
existence of an EMP. As a result, a number of the environmental monitoring activities
had not taken place as indicated in the EMP, such as noise and air quality monitoring;
waste had not been properly managed; and no occupational, health, and safety plan had
been prepared by the contractor. Had this performance continued, this would have
constituted environmental, health and safety risks to workers, as well as reputational risk
to the Bank.

55.    After the Bank team raised this issue with the Chairman of NREA, the
environmental performance was improved, and maintained a “Satisfactory? rating from
                                          14
2009 all the way to project closure. During implementation the following steps were
taken by NREA to comply to environmental safeguards:

      Senior Management support for the implementation of the EMP. The
       implementation of the safeguards considerably improved, once the Chairman of
       NREA, and Project PIE manager (who is also the vice chairman of NREA)
       became involved, and sent a strong message to the PIE to turn things around on
       environmental safeguards aspects.
      Clarity of roles and responsibilities. The PIE director has assigned the role of
       EMP implementation to a designated staff in the PIE. This ensured that proper
       accountability for the EMP implementation lies with a specific member of the PIE,
       and facilitated the communication on these issues with the PIE.
      Training and capacity building. The safeguards implementation improved once
       the PIE attention was drawn to the importance of ensuring that the EMP is
       properly disseminated to all relevant staff, including health and safety managers
       of the two main contractors on site, and to the site engineer. The training held by
       the Bank’s safeguard team member in Cairo, which was attended by NREA and
       the PIE environmental staff, was very well received and set the stage for proper
       communication on safeguards issues.
      Inclusion of EMP requirements in the construction contracts. An important
       issue which should be ensured in future projects is to include the necessary
       mitigation measures and monitoring requirement, as stipulated in the EMP, in the
       construction contracts. This was not done in this project. Luckily, however, the
       two contractors on site were amenable to making the necessary modification to
       their operating procedures to ensure that the EMP requirements were met.
      Proper reporting. Quarterly reporting to the Bank on the EMP implementation
       has helped maintain a log on EMP implementation progress. Furthermore, bi-
       annual supervision missions on safeguards aspects helped in ensuring that any
       limitations in implementing the ESMP were corrected in a timely fashion.

Social Safeguards

56.     The project was developed on a site already owned by NREA, close to the
existing Kureimat gas-fired combined-cycle power plant owned and operated by EEHC.
All construction-related activities were undertaken on this land and no land acquisition
was needed. The proposed site had no existing residents or any economic activity. The
site was several kilometers from the town of Kureimat, and a separate residential area
was set aside for the employees of the existing power plant located about 2 kilometers
from the project site. The residential complex developed for the project also included a
kindergarten and a sports club. No labor camp was envisaged as the workers were
recruited locally and commuted by bus on a daily basis. The project’s only safeguard
triggered was OP 4.01 (EA). Because of the rather remote location of the project,
negative social development impacts were considered minimal. On the other hand the
project has created considerable local employment, particularly during construction,
approximately 2000 men/month. After construction the ISCC plant employs
approximately 220 local personnel.

                                         15
Procurement

57.     Procurement for the proposed project was advanced during project preparation
and had been carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s "Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and the provisions stipulated in
the Legal Agreement. The Grant financed a single contract, for which the procurement
process was completed in accordance to World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Procurement of non-bank financed contracts for other components of the power plant (the
combined cycle component and consultant services) had been conducted using JICA’s
procurement procedures and Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), which were deemed
satisfactory to the Bank.

58.     The construction and operation of the ISCC power plant was to be implemented
in four separate contracts: (a) the construction and 2 years O&M of the Solar Island
(Main contractor is ORASCOM and the solar subcontractor is Flagsol (Germany); (b) the
construction of the Combined Cycle Island (Main contractor is IBERDROLA); (c) the 7
years O&M of the Combined Cycle island portion (not contracted); and (d) a
construction management consulting contract for the supervision and integration of the
solar and Combined Cycle Islands (the firm is Fichtner (Germany).

Financial Management

59.    The establishment and maintenance of the Financial Management (FM)
arrangements were assigned to NREA’s finance department which included sufficient
FM staff. The recording and reporting of the project’s transactions was done manually
and on Excel sheets by NREA Foreign Exchange department. All of the IFRs were
received on time, reviewed and found acceptable.

60.    The project's FM arrangements were consistently found to be “Satisfactory"
primarily due to the fact that NREA adopted the direct disbursement method throughout
the entire life of the project. The audit reports were delivered on time, reviewed and
found acceptable by the Bank. All of the audit reports were unqualified.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
[See Annex 5 for additional details]

61.   Learning and Knowledge Dissemination: The project has already created greater
awareness for CSP technology within Egypt as well as globally.

      The experience has been disseminated through (a) conferences and publications
       by NREA, its contractors as well as the World Bank and (b) Site visits of foreign
       delegations from a wide range of countries, donors, universities and other
       agencies. The Bank facilitated an Indian delegation visit to the plant in 2010 and a
       Chinese delegation has also expressed its interest to visit the plant in 2012.




                                          16
       In view of the issues faced by the project and as this technology would be of
        major future interest, it is recommended that the performance of the plant is
        closely monitored utilizing same PDO indicators.

       It would be beneficial for the Bank to visit the project after another year of
        operations to best capture the lessons in O&M for future CSP development in
        Egypt and in the region.

       At the same time additional air quality assessment would need to be carried to
        understand the extent of the issues and sources of high sulfur content in the
        environment.

       The Bank will write a knowledge brief approximately one year after careful
        observation and disseminate the lessons learned to a much wider audience,
        including other stakeholder and academia in the region and globally.

62.     Operation and Maintenance: Limited coordination and teamwork in the O&M
operation is of concern. Operations would benefit from having set schedule for O&M
meetings to discuss current problems and needs, such as the issue of water entry in the
HTF oil. Further, proper O&M planning and implementation of the Solar Island would
benefit from improved knowledge and forewarning of the operating condition of the
Combined Cycle Island.

63.     Early signs of material degradation in selected solar field components suggest
that the considerable dust, morning dew, and air pollutants in the area together could
contribute to the potential for long-term problems at the plant. The early need for
replacement of solar field collector bearings and solar drive pistons due to abnormal
surface corrosion after less than a year are examples of the air quality. Initial signs of
small areas of abnormal corrosion on the protective mirror paint layers are also indicators
of this concern that need to be examined further, and might lead to higher than
anticipated mirror replacement rates. The quality of air was not adequately evaluated and
forecasted within the site selection process. As per the ESIA “No industry, other than the
existing power plant, is present near the site. Thus, the air in the background atmosphere
is of appropriate quality?. The project feasibility study, undertaken by experienced CSP
consultants, also did not anticipate this issue of corrosive environment impacting the
plant operations.

64.    The Combined Cycle Island has been faced with maintenance issues since COD,
causing significant periods in which the plant is either entirely off-line or in a gas turbine-
only mode. The current understanding of the issues identifies the probable cause for
under-capacity operation of the gas turbine during initial months as the plugged
compressor inlet air filters, exacerbated by delayed shipment of replacements, leading to
uneven flow and, non-uniform combustion of the inlet air. JICA, co-financier for the
Combined Cycle Island is monitoring the issue and considers the O&M issues to be
resolvable with help from other generating companies in Egypt. Although it is not
envisaged in this project, JICA also provides post-completion support in its projects, in

                                            17
case such a need arises. This is normally done through provision of JICA experts and
engineers, residing in the host country/project site to resolve issues.

65.     Water entry into the heat transfer fluid (HTF) of the Solar Island was identified in
HEX No 2 and is currently being addressed, limiting the utilization of solar heat in the
steam turbine even while the solar field remains fully operable (see also section 2. 3).
However, given the oversized design of the HEX, HEX No. 1 alone is able to carry about
15 MW equivalent steam from the solar field.

66.    The Government has taken the decision to transfer this asset to the Upper Egypt
Generating Company as it is not in NREA’s mandate to operate and maintain
conventional power plants, such as CCGT, even if it is a hybrid with a renewable energy
component. This is a welcome step given the extensive experience within the Upper
Egypt generating company in operating combined cycle power plants. However, the
process of asset transfer is likely to take several months.

Further implementation of CSP Technology:

67.     Plans to implement the 100 MW Kom Ombo plant in Egypt, and considerable
development activity in North Africa, e.g., Morocco, and South Africa will benefit from
the experience at Kureimat. The capital cost of Kureimat was high at approximately
about US$5000/kW, not including the Combined Cycle Island, making the technology
five times more expensive than a CCGT plant and roughly three times more than the
wind technology. However, little can be learned about economics of CSP from this
experience given the small size of the solar field. But the ISCC plant brings useful
lessons in the introduction of CSP technology through hybridization in developing
countries by bringing overall costs in the range of 6-7 US cents/kWh by the virtue of a
small solar complement and shared power block. While these facilities are expected to be
stand-alone solar Rankine cycle plants, the contractual structure and solar field selection
and O&M planning will benefit from the lessons learned in this facility.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

68.     The project objectives and design are considered to be highly relevant to the
current national priorities and the Bank assistance strategy.

Brief Technical Description-
69.    The Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) project consists of Combined Cycle
Island (120 MW) and Solar Island (20 MW), the total gross power capacity of
approximately 140 MW, as illustrated below.




                                          18
70.    The Solar Island consists of a parabolic trough solar field and the heat transfer
fluid (HTF) system. The Contractor for the Solar Island (ORASCOM) guarantees the
                                                         supply of solar heat to the
                                                         solar heat exchangers as a
                                                         function of solar conditions.
                                                         The Combined Cycle Island
                                                         consists of one gas turbine,
                                                         one heat recovery steam
                                                         generator (HRSG), one steam
                                                         turbine, and solar heat
                                                         exchangers plus all associated
                                                         control and balance of plant
                                                         equipment and installations.
                                                         The generated electricity is
                                                         output to the regional grid.
                                                         The key technical data are
                                                         given in the following table.
       Figure 3: Technology Concept


                                      Table 2: Key Technical Data




Operation and Maintenance
71.     The construction of the ISCC Kureimat power plant started in January 2008 and
reached full commercial operation at the end of June 2011. Some delays during this
period were experienced due to the revolution in Egypt and funding arrangements.
Operation since that time has been below projected plant output for several reasons,
largely connected with Combined Cycle Island issues. The basic concept of a solar field
providing additional steam for the bottoming Steam Turbine cycle of a Combined Cycle
plant (gas turbine cycle plus steam turbine cycle) via the HRSG has worked well. The
solar field has also performed well, at or over design projections. The gas turbine and
solar heat exchangers, however, have suffered continuing maintenance issues that are still
requiring corrective action. The solar field equipment is showing corrosion of several
key components due to an unexpected presence of Sulfuric acid particles in the local air
environment.


                                            19
72.     The Kureimat ISCC plant’s main contribution is to demonstrate a new technology
with prospects for scale up through learning and dissemination (please see section 3.2
below). Furthermore, the ISCC plant is expected to contribute toward the ability of the
Egypt’s power system to support economic growth, entrepreneurship, job creation, and
social development by providing reliable electricity supply. The program outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to support the government’s reform agenda of
“achieving growth with equity? is organized around three pillars: (i) facilitating private
sector development; (ii) enhancing the provision of public services; and (iii) promoting
equity. The project directly supports the pillar on enhancing the provision of public
services, and contributes to the first pillar on private sector development by helping
maintain reliable electricity supply to private sector activities. It also contributes to the
third pillar, as Egypt is 99% electrified, and this project will contribute toward improving
the reliability of the network. Thus, the project is fully consistent with the CAS

73.     The project is also consistent with the priorities emerging as result of the political
revolution, which require an enabling environment for economic growth, job creation,
youth employment, transparency in governance, and public safety. The project supports
these priorities by providing 220 jobs, mostly to young people and capacity building on
the job for them. In addition, several local industries were involved in the construction of
both plants, with 60% of the Solar Island’s value being created locally. Reliable supply of
electricity is a necessary condition for furthering these objectives.

74.    The project objectives retain high overall relevance to the goals in Egypt to
increase the solar share in electricity generation supplied to the national grid.

75.    In addition the GoE is committed to sector reforms and is facilitating renewable
energy development through specific policy interventions. The Supreme Energy Council
in March 2010 announced key policy steps related to wind and CSP scale-up in the
country, proposed under the new electricity law. These include:

           approval of the need to cover additional costs for renewable energy projects
            through tariffs,
           approval of zero customs duty on wind and CSP equipment,
           finalization of the land use policy for wind and CSP developers,
           acceptance of foreign currency denominated Power Purchase Agreements
            (PPA)s and confirmation of central bank guarantees for all Build Own
            Operate (BOO) projects,
           permitting support for developers with respect to environmental, social and
            defense permits.




                                           20
   3.2 Achievement of Development Objectives and Global Environmental Objectives
   76.    The key performance indicators10 for the development objectives of the project
   included:

            a. Total electricity generated from solar sources (GWh/year).
            b. Solar output as a percentage of total energy produced by the hybrid plant (%).
            c. Total electricity generated from the ISCC power plant (GWh/year).

   77.     The project achieved its development objective of increasing the share of solar
   based electricity generation (20MW) in Egypt and contributed to the Government’s
   objective of diversifying electric power production. Although the contribution of this
   project to the total solar generation capacity in Egypt is small, it demonstrated a new
   technology with prospects for scale-up. Below are the details of PDO/GEOs achieved.

                                          Table 3: PDO/GEO achieved


   Project Outcome Indicators         Baseline          Target Values                    Values Achieved
1. Total electricity generated from   0          33.4 GWh                           35.1 GWh
solar sources (GWh/year)                                                            (based on limited data)
2. Solar output as a percentage of    0          4%                                 4.1%
total energy produced in the
hybrid plant
3. Total electricity generated from   0          852 GWh                            860 GWh-842 GWh
the ISCC plant (GWh/year)
4. Emissions reduced from use of      0          20,000 tons of CO2/year            15,410-8,710
solar fuel (tons of CO2/year)                                                       tons of CO2/year
5. Debt service coverage ratio        0          1.1                                0.5
(DSCR).
6. Self finance ratio (SFR)           0          0.1                                0.09


   78.     It is expected that the project will also meet its global development objective of
   reducing greenhouse gas emissions from anthropogenic sources by increasing the market
   share of low green house gas emitting technologies through dissemination of lessons
   learned from this project. The implementation of the Kureimat ISCC project has helped
   bring greater awareness of this technology in Egypt and the region. Beyond the region,
   there has also been keen global interest in this plant with south-south exchanges already
   taking place.

   79.   In part due to the experience gained in the implementation of this project, the
   Government is preparing its next CSP project at Kom Ombo, Upper Egypt at a scale of
   100 MW. In particular, the localization prospects and the ability to develop a fully




   10
     At the time of project negotiation, two financial indicators, Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) and
   Self Financing Ratio (SFR) were included. See Annex 3.


                                                       21
dispatachable renewable energy plant utilizing CSP technology is attractive to Egypt.
This proposed project will also receive support under the MENA CSP Scale-up initiative.

80.     The MENA CSP Scale-up Initiative is a $5.6 billion program (including $750
million of concessional funding from the Clean Technology Fund) led by the World Bank
Group, working closely with the African Development Bank and other European, Arab,
Islamic, and Japanese donors, to implement nine commercial-scale power plants (in
Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia), and two EU-MENA interconnection
projects. The NIF, KfW, the German Government, EIB, and AFD have been key partners
in the development of the CSP Initiative. The overall objective is to help bring down the
global costs of CSP technology, through economies of scale and learning effects from
replication.

3.3 Efficiency

81.     Based on the costs and benefits assumed in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), the project was projected to generate a net present value of US$54 million and the
EIRR of the project was 13%. The basis included a total installed cost of the plant of
about $290 million based on bids awarded, wherein the cost of equipment excludes taxes
and import duties (an estimated US$22.4 million). The present value of fuel, O&M costs
and consumables amounted to $153 million over the 25-year lifetime. Also assumed were
an economic cost of natural gas of US$2.52/MMbtu instead of the actual price charged to
the power sector, and an average electricity tariff of US$0.07/kWh -- the price for
electricity exports to Jordan.

82.     As discussed in Annex 3, the cross-border electricity exchange price has changed
significantly since the PAD was developed in 2007, now amounting to 11.18 US cents
per kWh, or a 60% increase. Further, the EEHC now uses an economic cost of natural gas
of US$4/MMbtu. Compared to the values, the actual generation for the first year of
operation is 57% of that assumed in the PAD. Taking all these factors into account
(electricity cost, natural gas cost; 1st year generation), the currently projected EIRR is
11.95% compared to the PAD value of 13.0%.

83.     Financial Analysis: NREA has had a relatively intensive transition from being a
research and development-focused entity to becoming a green electricity generating
entity, given the realization of new projects and investments. Currently, the existing
generation capacity is 522MW of wind and 140 MW of solar, with a pipe line of an
additional 3190MWof future wind projects. A proposed CSP project with a capacity of
100 MW in Kom Ombo city as well as some Photovoltaic plants with total capacity of 20
MW are in the pipeline.

84.    NREA’s revenue from electricity sales has been increasing an average of 26% per
year since 2004/2005 while OPEX/Revenues have decreased about 20% over the last
three years. However, the entity has a loss-making profitability structure: the deficit in
2008/2009 was LE 118.8 million (USD22.0 million), which is funded by the government.
According to preliminary information on financial status, the main reason for deficit is


                                         22
intensive investment program and debt service. As of 2008/2009, the total long-term
debt stock reached LE 5.02 billion (USD 913 million).

85.     EEHC and NREA have been working to improve the financial structure of NREA,
with the improvements positively affecting financial performance of the entity but far
from ensuring self-cost coverage and profitability. In this regard, several options have
been on the entity’s agenda such as increasing current tariff of 13 Pt/kWh at the level
EEHC sells power to end-users; increasing annual tariff escalation from 7.5% to 10%;
and increasing the petroleum fund’s income sharing rate of 0.02 Pt/kWh to higher levels
or via another mechanism. From the performance monitoring point of view, two
indicators have been agreed and targeted as proxies for financial soundness: Debt Service
Coverage (a minimum of 1.1 required) and Self Finance (a minimum of 0.1 required).
These ratios as of 2008/2009 period were: DSCR 0.5 (EBITDA 11 basis) and 1.2
(operating cash flow basis); and Self Finance Ratio 0.09 respectively12.

86.     ISCC System Efficiency: The operating efficiency of the ISCC system depends
on the operation of the major components ¨the gas turbine cycle; steam turbine cycle; and
solar field. There is limited full capacity operation and detailed data on the Combined
Cycle Island systems to assess their performance, and it is highly recommended that these
metrics be monitored for the next year. The initial operation of the Solar Island shows
good performance, but this important subsystem should also be observed during the first
year of normal operation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

87.     The overarching objective of the World Bank/GEF grant to this project was to
demonstrate the technical viability of an ISCC configuration in Egypt, and beyond. The
cost and performance of the 20 MW-equivalent Solar Island are on target as proposed,
and the early performance indications of the Solar Island are very strong. With
appropriate O&M and proper operation of the Combined Cycle Island, the solar
contribution will be an excellent demonstration of the concept. The design of the
Combined Cycle Island is such that at design capacity operation, it is able to receive the
full output of the Solar Island even at the highest solar conditions.

88.     At this stage, the Kureimat Solar Island is functioning in an early operational
stage. Since the Combined Cycle Island utilizes the steam generated by the solar field to
increase its electrical output, design capacity operation of the Combined Cycle Island is
imperative to take full advantage of the Solar Island. As of April 2012, the plant is in


11
     Operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses.
12
 The latest income statements and cash flow statements provided by NREA were for
FY2008/2009.


                                                23
integrated working condition, the Combined Cycle Island operation has been hindered by
several significant O&M issues in the last several months (see Annex 5) that required
immediate attention and resolution. With respect to the Solar Island, O&M requirements
are expected to be greater than anticipated due to the corrosive nature of the local air
environment, particularly related to sulfur content.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

See section 1.4

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

89.     As noted earlier, the institutional development associated with this project was
significant as it was the first CSP project in Egypt. The project design specifically
includes formalized on-job training for staff during the contracted O&M period of two
years for the Solar Island which will help build technical capacity in this area within the
Government and support future CSP development in Egypt. Also, the project has led to
strengthening of capacity in the Egyptian private sector and there are now companies and
staff with skills in this area, not only in the design and implementation of CSP plants but
also in local manufacturing of components.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

90.    At the time when this project was conceptualized and prepared, the Government
and the Bank were not planning future CSP engagement and market momentum was slow
globally. In fact, GEF through its support to the Kureimat project (as well as the other
CSP Projects) helped keep global momentum in demonstrating CSP development at a
time when there was slow down due to limited Government support in US and Europe.
In wake of the revived global interest in CSP and availability of critical concessional
support through the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) for CSP development in developing
countries, the Bank is supporting a program on CSP scale-up in the region. Lessons from
the Kureimat ISCC implementation experience informed the design of the MENA
regional CSP Scale-up program.

91.     Lessons related to the local manufacturing possibilities are particularly relevant
for further CSP development in the region and have been captured in a regional study
“Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region Assessment of Local Manufacturing
Potential for Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) Projects? World Bank, March 2011.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

This was a core ICR and no stakeholder workshops were carried out for this project.




                                          24
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

92.     Normal full-capacity operation of the ISCC plant with a high availability factor
will provide the basis for satisfaction of the GEO and key indicators of the project. The
primary objective is to increase the share of solar-based electricity in the Egyptian grid
through electricity generation by this hybrid solar-gas plant at projected levels at a
reasonable cost.

93.     The ISCC plant is still in the initial stages of commercial operation. Prolonged
operation at full power has not yet been possible due to early maintenance issues, namely
those associated with gas turbine air inlet filters and gas turbine combustor operation as
well as solar heat exchanger tube sheet leakage. NREA has actively pursued solutions to
these problems, while issues have been solved, the responsiveness of the contractors and
their vendors has not been exemplary and the level of preventive as well as on-site
maintenance could be improved.

94.     The Solar Island is performing well. Integration of the Solar Island with the
Combined Cycle Island appears to be functioning as designed, meeting the primary
objective of the ISCC configuration. However, there might be longer-term problems
linked to the potential of equipment degradation due to continuing corrosion issues
associated with the sulfuric acid component in the local environment. True mitigation of
this problem by NREA requires that steps be taken to improve the air quality in the
region in conjunction with the provincial Government-but the evidence on air quality is
not conclusive and needs to be studied further. More controlled, and more costly,
mitigation steps will be to repair, refurbish or replace failures or severely degraded
components of solar field components as necessary. Increased frequency of cleaning solar
field mirror coating surfaces and components to strip away dirt and pollutants could also
help mitigate the problem. Anti corrosion measure were proactively adopted by NREA
with close cooperation of Solar Island contractors for components and are explained in
greater detail in Annex 5.

95.    Technically, the risk to achieving full power electricity generation and good
performance in the short term is low to moderate. Mitigation of the current technology
shortcomings can be corrected by equipment repair and maintenance.

96.    The risk of not being able to maintain normal operation, once achieved, causes
some concern. Mitigation requires improved O&M procedures in the short-term, and may
be considerably more costly than projected in the medium to long-term due to the higher
degradation of equipment caused by the corrosive air environment.

97.    Steps must be taken to lower the O&M risk by appropriate training, addition of
experienced O&M crews, and positive management steps to create a single
comprehensive O&M organization for the plant.



                                         25
98.    The proposed transfer of the Kureimat plant to the Upper Egypt Generating
Company is a positive step towards ensuring sustainable operation of the plant in the
future. However, the transfer is expected to take several months and it would be
important to ensure that adequate support is provided from Upper Egypt or other
generating companies to support operation and maintenance of the plant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

99.     At the time when the project was prepared, adequate due diligence was
undertaken by the Bank. The project was clearly defined and objectives precise and
responsive to the request and needs of the country and consistent with the Bank’s CAS
and government priorities. The performance indicators were realistic and useful for
assessing the progress towards achieving the project objectives. The support provided to
the implementing agencies was adequate and issues addressed adequately. However, the
possible impact of the evolving local environment on the project was not examined in
depth in the ESIA as well as the feasibility study perhaps given the largely uninhabited
area for the project and only a gas fired power in vicinity as the key source of pollution.
There had also been no significant prior experience from operational CSP plants related
to the corrosive impact of local environment on the operation of the solar field which
would have called for an in-depth assessment of the local environment on the project.
The bid documents also did not have any statement on air quality and left the corrosion
issue open for bidders to consider. The poor air quality could have a significant impact on
the performance of the plant in coming years. It is recommended that the Bank undertake
a comprehensive assessment of air quality at the project site a year from now to identify
the sources of pollution and understand whether the pollution impacts are regional or site
specific in nature. Given the possible high impacts of the local air quality that could cause
increased mirror replacements, the Bank performance at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

100.    Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank team visited the project
approximately twice a year. The visits helped the team to address issues proactively and
to support the achievements of project objectives. Although the Bank was not responsible
for the Combined Cycle Island, it would have been perhaps prudent to also be involved in
decisions related to the power plant being financed by JICA as the integration of the
Solar Island and Combined Cycle Island is essential for the success of the plant. At the
same time, the Bank team’s supervision was thorough and proactive on issues on the
Solar Island being financed by the Bank.

                                           26
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

101. The overall performance rating of the Bank is satisfactory. This is based on the
quality of preparation and supervision, as well as the experience and proactive approach
of the Bank team. Procurement was completed by the time of Board approval and even
with construction delays and impact of revolution during final stages of completion, the
project was completed and legally closed on time. Bank reassured the clients that the
funds were managed in a transparent and efficient manner and full disbursements of GEF
funds took place well before closing. The technical and financial knowledge of the team
was deemed useful for project implementation. The twice a year supervision missions by
the Bank were adequate to stay abreast of implementation progress to guarantee an
overall project supervision beyond desk reviews of progress reports and continuous
interaction with the client. Bank support was considered beneficial for the capacity
building and dissemination activities.


5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

102. The overall government performance is rated satisfactory. The project set a
precedent in introducing CSP technology in developing countries through the ISCC
configuration, including making a substantial financial contribution to this project. The
significant contribution made by the Government demonstrates its ownership of this
Project. This is particularly noteworthy as it was unanticipated (costs being much higher
than expected and the GEF grant not being able to cover that increase). During that
period, power equipment costs across all technologies were escalating rapidly and this
effect was magnified in the thin CSP equipment market. The difference in the solar field
EPC cost between the Kureimat project and the Ain Beni Mathar Project in Morocco was
approximately US$ 24 million for the same size solar field. Together with the Ain-Beni
Mathar plant in Morocco and Hassi R’mel plant in Algeria, Kureimat is one among three
worldwide ISCC plants and the GoE commitment to this project is commendable.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

103. As this was the first of its kind project, the Government and the implementing
agency placed high emphasis on its smooth implementation. Qualified teams at NREA
supervised the implementation, including a significant presence at the site on a full-time
basis. Procurement was completed before Board approval satisfactorily and smoothly.
The NREA team was largely responsive to Bank feedback, for example in tightening the

                                         27
environmental safeguards compliance during implementation. As the implementing
agency, NREA monitored the contractors closely and ensured that the project
implementation was satisfactory (for example in addressing the corrosion issues)
although having separate contractors for the Solar Island and Combined Cycle Island
made issues more complicated. However, issues during implementation and early
operations are also partly attributable to NREA’s limited experience and institutional
capacity in managing multiple large contractors. Also, it would have been prudent to
highlight the corrosion issues during construction in the quarterly progress reports in
detail which otherwise focused mainly on construction progress. The O&M issues also
could have been mitigated to some extent had an O&M contractor for the Combined
Cycle Island been appointed as planned. In the case of the companion GEF funded ISCC
project, the project was managed by the National electric utility and appears to have been
smoothly implemented. However, this would need to be confirmed as part of the ICR for
that project. Within this context, the implementing agency’s performance is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

104. The agency has to be commended on being open to share experience with the
global community through facilitation of a number of sites visits, including for World
Bank senior management. Looking to the future course of CSP implementation in Egypt,
there is a need for suitable institutional development to facilitate the implementation of
private sector based solar projects in the future. In this context, it might be worthwhile to
consider experience from Morocco where in order to scale-up CSP deployment through
Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), a dedicated agency, MASEN, was established with
primarily financial and Project management skills, not technical renewable energy skills.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

105. The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to this project by going
ahead with the project even when the cost of the Solar Island proved to be much higher
than originally envisaged. The GoE financed the Solar Island to the extent of about
US$ 61 million and facilitated and provided smooth flow of counterpart funding during
implementation. The project team at NREA was well staffed and actively worked with
consultants and contractors to resolve issues during construction, sourcing sector
expertise from other entities such as power generating companies. However, their lack of
experience in the CSP technology as well as conventional power generation technology
made the task challenging. The proactive measures being taken by NREA to transfer this
asset to the Upper Egypt Generating Company, which owns and operates a fleet of
combined cycle plants, is a positive step towards ensuring sustainable operation of this
plant.

106. The Government continues to be committed to contribute to the development of
this technology further through the preparation of the Kom Ombo Solar project. NREA is
integrating lessons learned from the Kureimat project into the design of the upcoming
Kom Ombo project.


                                           28
6. Lessons Learned

      The Kureimat ISCC project has the potential to demonstrate the value of a
       fully dispatchable hybrid CSP – Combined Cycle Power Plant. Successful
       operation of this demonstration project will raise awareness of this technology
       and provide lessons for wider application, notably since it is one of the first ISCC
       projects deployed at a commercial scale in the world. A primary purpose of this
       CSP configuration is to implement the integration of a solar field with a combined
       cycle plant to produce additional turbine inlet steam, thus increasing electrical
       output with net positive effect on plant efficiency and the reduction of carbon
       emissions.

      Demonstration projects can be highly effective as tools for “visual learning?
       with respect to new technologies such as CSP. The Kureimat Project has made
       significant impact as one of the first CSP projects in the region and contributed to
       learning and greater awareness for CSP technology within Egypt, in the region
       and globally.

      Implementation strategy should be aligned with institutional capacity. Early
       planning for the Egypt Kureimat ISCC project envisioned a single EPC
       contract for the solar and power plant implementation. Funding
       considerations resulted in a change to a split EPC contract. Elements of the
       implementation of this project suggest that the split contract approach has
       hindered rather than helped the implementation process in both the construction
       and O&M phases. An approach involving a single EPC contractor with O&M
       responsibility would have been a better model in this context. Therefore, a key
       lesson emerging from this project is the importance of aligning procurement and
       implementation strategy with the capacity of the implementation agency.

      Site selection for an ISCC project is of critical importance. While most of the
       important site selection criteria were applied to the Kureimat site selection, it is
       apparent that air quality (and in particular its potential for accelerating equipment
       surface corrosion and mirror soiling) must be added to the high priority list for
       future projects.

      The Kureimat project highlights the strong prospects for localization of the
       ISCC technology in Egypt, with an active role being played by the Egyptian
       engineering firm ORASCOM and associated suppliers (See also Middle East and
       North Africa (MENA) Region Assessment of the Local Manufacturing Potential
       for Concentrated Solar Power projects, World Bank, March 2011). Up to 60% of
       the value of the solar field was generated locally.

      The Solar Island at Kureimat is operating well and effectively in this early
       stage. The performance levels are high and compare well with design projections.
       On hot summer days, the enhanced output of the solar field counteracts the typical
       diminished gas turbine performance due to high compressor inlet dry bulb air

                                          29
       temperatures. The gas turbine power reduction is due to the reduced inlet air
       density under such conditions.

      Few lessons can be learnt from the project about economics of CSP due to
       small size. The Solar Island costs are pushed higher for the smaller solar fields
       typical of an ISCC project in comparison to a solar-only steam power plant
       project, due to fixed infrastructure costs in construction and O&M of the Solar
       Island.    Larger solar configurations approaching practical limits set by
       performance and economics are encouraged in future projects. CSP market has
       evolved considerably since the time this project was bid with revival of interest in
       this technology in the U.S and Europe.

      Sufficient data is not yet available to observe success of the total ISCC plant
       in operation. The initial operation of the plant has been faced with Combined
       Cycle Island equipment problems, though early operation of the integrated system
       is functionally promising. It is clear that there is an economic benefit on the
       power block side from the reduced investment to achieve a modest capacity
       increase of the steam turbine cycle in an ISCC configuration. Lessons,
       particularly on plant operations and maintenance should be revisited in a year as
       adequate operational data is not available as yet.

      The purpose and goals of the GEF grant to demonstrate solar integration
       also require appropriate design and operation of the Combined Cycle Island.
       Without proper design, construction, operation and maintenance of the Combined
       Cycle Island, the value of the Solar Island is negatively affected. Should such
       projects be repeated in the future, the World Bank could take a greater role in the
       monitoring, review and approval of Combined Cycle Island design and O&M
       decisions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

107. NREA clarified the reason of reducing the solar field capacity from 30MW to
20MW and thereby reducing the capacity of the plant as a whole from 150MW to
140MW gross. According to NREA, the cost for a 30MW solar field was high and
suitable additional funding could not be mobilized in time thus reducing the solar field to
20MW, which was deemed acceptable by the Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers

108. The Co financier originally was originally JBIC but its ODA departments were
merged with JICA in 2008. Thus JICA took over the role of co financier. In addition to
the Combined Cycle Island, JICA also financed the O&M consultant for the Solar Island
as well as a spare parts contract for the Combined Cycle Island raising the overall
financing for the project from JICA.


                                          30
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
109. The Bank has engaged a broad range of stakeholders including academia, NGOs
and private sector during dissemination events that included sharing experience from the
Kureimat project. There is also continued engagement with stakeholders to receive
ongoing feedback on the future development of CSP in Egypt and in the region as part of
the MENA CSP scale-up initiative.




                                        31
                                                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
   Project Cost (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                Appraisal
                                               Estimates inc                                                                                                  Percentage
                          Appraisal Estimate   Contingencies                                                                                                      of
     Components            (USD millions)      (US millions)                              Actual/Latest Estimate as April 2012                                Appraisal

                                                                  GEF                           JICA                          NREA             Total
                                                                                          US equivalent    US equivalent
                                                                              YEN         (Xchange rate    (Xchange rate
                                                                USD           (billion)   2007)            2012)           US equivalent   US equivalent

                                                                                           US1= YEN        USD1 = YEN
                                                                                              118             82.82
 a) Solar Island                      111.31           117.80         49.80                                                        60.00         109.80
   Solar Consultant
                                        0.00             0.00                      1.37            12.00           16.00            3.00           19.00
            Total Solar
                                      111.31           117.80         49.80        1.37            12.00           16.00           63.00         128.80         109%
 b) CC Island
                                      193.49           209.77                     17.40           148.00         210.00            60.00         270.00
    Spare Parts
                                        0.00             0.00                      9.80             8.00           12.00           12.00           24.00
       Total CC Island
                                      193.49           209.77          0.00       27.20           156.00         222.00            72.00         294.00         140%
  Total Baseline Cost                 304.80           327.57         49.80       28.57           168.00         238.00          135.00          422.80         129%
Physical &Price
Contingencies                          22.77             0.00         0.00        0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00                0.00
Interest, Commitment,
Depreciation                            0.00             0.00         0.00         4.30             4.00            5.00            0.00               5.00

   Total Project Costs                327.57           327.57         49.80       32.87           172.00         243.00          135.00          427.80         131%
Project Preparation
Facility (PPF)                          0.00             0.00          0.00        0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00               0.00

Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00             0.00          0.00        0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00               0.00
       Total Financing
             Required                 327.57           327.57         49.80       32.87           172.00         243.00          135.00          427.80         131%




                                                                                32
                                      Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                      Estimate         Estimate       Percentage of Appraisal
                        Type of
  Source of Funds     Cofinancing   (USD millions)   (USD millions)
 Borrower                              126.48           135.00                107%
 Global Environment
Facility (GEF)                           49.8             49.8                100%
 JAPAN: Japan Bank
for International
Cooperation (JBIC)                     151.29             243                 161%




                                                                 33
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

As noted earlier, the project has been implemented through three contract components:
1. The design, construction and operation of the proposed Integrated Solar Combined
   Cycle Plant.
2. Capacity building within NREA through consulting services for construction
   management during the construction, testing and operation of the plant.
3. An Environmental and Social Impact management component to be financed by
   NREA.

Component 1: Implementation packages for the ISCC plant were eventually split into two
contract lots:
      (a) One contract lot for the Solar Island as an EPC contract for engineering,
          procurement, construction, commissioning and two (2) years operation and
          maintenance (i.e., EPC cum O&M). The prime contractor was ORASCOM
          Construction Industries (Egypt) with Flagsol (Germany) as a sub-contractor
          supplying the Solar Island.
      (b) One contract lot for the Combined Cycle Island as contract for engineering,
          procurement, construction, commissioning and an extended two (2) year
          warranty period. The prime contractor was IBERDROLA Engineering and
          Construction (Spain) and MITSUI (Japan).
      (c) A 7-yr O&M contract was planned for the Combined Cycle Island, but this
          plant was later changed to implementation by NREA as part to the capacity
          building in Component 2.

The Solar Island consists of a parabolic trough solar field, the heat transfer fluid (HTF)
system up to the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the Solar Heat Exchangers, associated
control systems and control and service buildings. The Contractor for the Solar Island
(ORASCOM) guarantees the supply of solar heat to the solar heat exchangers as a
function of direct normal irradiation (DNI) and sun incident angle.

The Combined Cycle Island consists of one gas turbine, one heat recovery steam
generator (HRSG), one steam turbine, solar heat exchangers plus all associated control
and balance of plant equipment and installations. The Contractor for Combined Cycle
Island (IBERDROLA) guarantees the generation of electricity and the heat rate as a
function of ambient temperature and supply of solar heat from the Solar Island.

Both EPC contractors started in January 2008, with time to commercial operation
scheduled for 30 months (ORASCOM) and for 33 months (IBERDROLA). Both EPC
contractors were delayed in meeting the target commercial operation dates due to
different reasons. The work on the Combined Cycle Island was delayed via a suspension
by IBERDROLA due to missing letter of credit by NREA. This also resulted in a
significant delay to the Solar Island work. For example, a lack of power supply to the
Solar Island and availability of the solar heat exchanger impeded testing.

Component 2: Capacity building within NREA has proceeded as planned. NREA
participated in the consulting services for construction management during the
                                         34
construction, testing and operation of the plant. NREA is responsible for overall
operation and maintenance (O&M) coordination for the plant, and complete O&M
services for the Combined Cycle Island.

The capacity building has included: (a) detailed engineering designs with special
attention to the interface between the Solar and CCGT systems; (b) supervising the
construction and environmental aspects of the power plant; (c) monitoring the
commissioning and guarantee tests; (d) preparing the O&M contract for the CCGT part in
terms satisfactory to the Bank; (e) providing assistance during the 2-year guarantee
period as well as assisting NREA in monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the
whole plant at least during the two years of the O&M period; and (f) providing training
and transfer of know-how in ISCC plant operation, with particular emphasis to
dispatching and integration into the power system so that NREA staff can successfully
take over the power plant after the respective O&M contracts expire.

Initial indications, however, are that the O&M of the Kureimat plant has suffered from
coordination of all parties, and from insufficient maintenance of key equipment.

Component 3: This comprises the Environmental and Social Impact management
component to be financed by NREA. This component includes the implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which mitigates the potential environmental and
social impacts associated with the construction and operation of the power plant.




                                        35
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

The total installed cost of the plant was about $290 million based on bids awarded. The
cost of equipment excludes taxes and import duties (an estimated US$22.4 million). The
present value of fuel, O&M costs and consumables amounts to $153 million over the 25-
year lifetime. The economic analysis assumed an economic cost of natural gas of
US$2.52/MMbtu instead of the actual price charged to the power sector. The cost of gas
supply was based on an ESMAP study on the economic cost of natural gas in the
domestic market. The economic benefits were derived from the economic value of
electricity generated, where the average electricity tariff has been assumed to be
US$0.07/kWh -- the price for electricity exports to Jordan. The GEF grant of $49.8
million has been included as an economic benefit as it reflects global willingness to pay
for this project. Based on these costs and benefits, the project generates a net present
value of US$54 million and the EIRR of the project was 13%.
Economic Analysis based on PAD

Year                Economic Benefits                          Economic Costs (Million US$)           Net
         GEF     Electricity Sales                   Capital    Fuel     O&M       Consumab   Total   Benefits
         Grant             US$ (Mil                  Costs     Costs     Costs         les             Million
                  GWh       lion))      Total                                                           US$
-3        9.96                           9.96         58.0      0          0         0         58.0     -48.0
-2       29.88                          29.88        173.9      0          0         0        173.9    -144.0
-1        9.96                           9.96         58.0      0          0         0         58.0     -48.0
1                 852        59.6        59.6                  14.8      12.0       0.1        18.4      32.8
2                 852        59.6        59.6                  14.9      12.1       0.1        27.1      32.5
3                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.1       4.7       0.1        19.9      39.7
4                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.2       4.8       0.1        20.1      39.5
5                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.4       4.8       0.1        20.3      39.3
6                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.5       4.8       0.1        20.5      39.1
7                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.7       4.9       0.1        20.7      38.9
8                 852        59.6        59.6                  15.9       4.9       0.1        20.9      38.7
9                 852        59.6        59.6                  16.0       5.0       0.1        21.1      38.5
10                852        59.6        59.6                  16.2       5.0       0.1        21.3      38.3
11                852        59.6        59.6                  16.3       5.1       0.1        21.5      38.1
12                852        59.6        59.6                  16.5       5.1       0.1        21.7      37.9
13                852        59.6        59.6                  16.7       5.2       0.1        22.0      37.7
14                852        59.6        59.6                  16.8       5.2       0.1        22.2      37.4
15                852        59.6        59.6                  17.0       5.3       0.1        22.4      37.2
16                852        59.6        59.6                  17.2       5.3       0.1        22.6      37.0
17                852        59.6        59.6                  17.3       5.4       0.1        22.9      36.8
18                852        59.6        59.6                  17.5       5.5       0.1        23.1      36.5
19                852        59.6        59.6                  17.7       5.5       0.1        23.3      36.3
20                852        59.6        59.6                  17.9       5.6       0.1        23.5      36.1
21                852        59.6        59.6                  18.0       5.6       0.1        23.8      35.8
22                852        59.6        59.6                  18.2       5.7       0.1        24.0      35.6
23                 852        59.6      59.6                   18.4       5.7        0.1       24.3      35.4
24                 852        59.6      59.6                   18.6       5.8        0.1       24.5      35.1
25                 852        59.6      59.6                   18.8       5.8        0.1       24.7      34.9
EIRR                                                                                                  13%


                                                36
Sensitivity on Economic Analysis: ICR

The cross-border electricity exchange price has changed significantly since the PAD was
developed in 2007. According to 2010 Annual Report of Jordan’s National Electric
Power Corporation (NEPCO), NEPCO purchased 445,783 MWh of electricity from
Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company at the cost of 35.3 million Jordanian dollar,
implying the average purchasing price of 11.18 US Cent per kWh using the fixed
exchange rate of 0.708 JD per US$. This price is almost 60% higher than the 7 US Cent
per kWh tariff assumed in the PAD. If this new price is used keeping everything else the
same as in the above analysis, the EIRR exceeds 21.65%. The Egyptian Electricity
Holding Company uses economic cost of natural gas as US$4/MMbtu. Although the
World Bank could not verify this price, using this price, for the purpose of sensitivity
analysis, instead of US$2.52/MMbtu assumed in the PAD, and new electricity price of
11.18 US Cents, the EIRR turns out to be 19.4%. Please see figure below.
           Figure 4: Sensitivity on the Economic Analysis (EIRR under various Cases)




                                                        21.65%

                                                                                19.40%




          13.00%
                                 11.95%




        EIRR -PAD               EIRR-ICR              EIRR-ICR (S1)          EIRR-ICR (S2)


EIRR-PAD represents EIRR reported in the PAD. EIRR-ICR takes every assumption
from PAD except the actual generation for the first year of the operation which is 57%
smaller than that assumed in the PAD. EIRR-ICR (S1) takes all assumption from EIRR-
ICR case but replaces old electricity price (7 US Cent per kWh) with the new one (11.18
US Cent per kWh). EIRR-ICR (S2) takes all assumption from EIRR-ICR (S1) case but
replaces old fuel price (US$ 2.52/MMbtu) with the new one (US$ 4.0/MMbtu).




                                            37
Financial Analysis

NREA has transitioned from a research and development-focused entity to green
electricity and revenue generating entity, resulting in realization of new projects and
investments. In 2010 the total installed capacity was 522 MW, with an additional
140MW that was completed in 2011. There are current projects under preparation with
capacity of 1120 MW in Gulf of Zayt on Red Sea Coast. This trend emphasizes the
importance of financial performance for the authority and targets on creating a
commercially viable company in medium-long term.

NREA’s revenue from electricity sales in 2008/2009 was LE 124.1 million (USD23.0
million), an average increase of 26% per year since 2004/2005 while OPEX was LE 28.8
(USD5.3 million), mainly salaries and wages with a working ratio (OPEX/Revenues) of
23% (29% in average over last three years). However, the entity has a loss-making
profitability structure: the deficit in 2008/2009 was LE 118.8 million (USD22.0 million),
which is funded by the government. According to preliminary information on financial
status, main reason for deficit is intensive investment program and debt service.

As of 2008/2009, the total long-term debt stock was LE 5.02 billion (USD912.7 million)
for the period 2008/2009 as a result of an average increase of 40% per year since
2004/2005.

The EEHC, purchasing electricity from NREA has recently increased the tariff from 12
Pt/kWh to 13 Pt/kWh with a 7.5% annual tariff escalation, which used to be 5%. The
accounts receivable structure between NREA and EEHC is functioning better i.e.; LE
33.2 million and 287 days-on-hand in 2004/2005 to LE 18.5 and 54 DOH. These
improvements have positively affected the financial performance of the entity, however,
there is room for more development of the institution to ensure self-cost coverage and
profitability. Thus, additional measurements are considered by the NREA in order to
reduce government support on deficit and strengthen financial viability of the entity. In
this term, several options have been in the entity’s agenda such as increasing current
tariff of 13 Pt/kWh at the level EEHC sells power to end-users; increasing annual tariff
escalation from 7.5% to 10%; increasing petroleum fund’s income sharing rate of 0.02
Pt/kWh to higher levels or establishing a mechanism in which total marginal income
generated by exporting fuel saved in generation electricity from renewables is to be fully
allocated to benefit of the NREA or future renewable energy investments.

From performance monitoring point of view two indicators, which have been agreed and
targeted as proxies for financial soundness; Debt Service Coverage (a minimum of 1.1
required) and Self Finance (a minimum of 0.1 required) Ratios. These ratios as of
2008/2009 period were: DSCR 0.5 (EBITDA13 basis) and 1.2 (operating cash flow basis);
and Self Finance Ratio 0.09 respectively14.


13
     Operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses.

14
     The latest income statements and cash flow statements provided by NREA was for FY2008/2009.


                                                    38
 New and Renewable Energy Authority (NREA)

Summary Financial Statements - As of June 2009

                              -

Balance Sheet                       2006/07         2007/08         2008/09
                                    Audited         Audited         Audited
Assets
 Cash                                       11.7          21.2            52.0
 Current assets, net                        60.5          80.5           107.5
 Fixed assets, net                       2,648.1       3,964.7         5,857.1
 Total assets                            2,708.7       4,045.2         5,964.6

Liabilities & Equities
 Current liabilities, net                   50.3         666.7         1,203.4
 Long-term liabilities, net              2,402.7       3,468.7         4,900.5
 Total liabilities                       2,453.0       4,135.5         6,103.9

 Retained earnings                          -           (164.2)         (283.0)
 Total Equity                             255.7          (90.3)         (139.3)

Income Statement                    2006/07         2007/08         2008/09

Revenue
 Electricity                               68.5           96.7           124.1
 Others                                     1.5            0.5             0.7

Expenses
 Operating expenses                        20.2           33.3            28.8
 Financing expenses                        84.3          123.4           132.4
 Depreciation                              62.0           85.5           104.8

Net Income                                  (0.0)       (164.2)         (118.9)

Cash Flow *                         2006/07         2007/08         2008/09

                                          n/a
Net Changes in working capital, excluding cash                n/a        515.8
Operating cash flow, net                  n/a                 n/a         86.2
Investment cash flow, net                 n/a                 n/a       (415.2)
Financing cash flow. Net                  n/a                 n/a        359.7
 Net change in cash for the year       (61.01)           9.51           30.71
Opening Cash Balance                     72.7            11.7            21.2
Closing Cash Balance                     11.7            21.2            52.0
Financial Ratios                    2006/07         2007/08         2008/09

Gross operating margin                    71.1%          65.7%           76.9%
Net operating margin                       0.0%        -168.9%          -95.2%
DSCR**                                      n.a            n.a            0.53
Self Finance**                              n.a            n.a            0.09

Current ratio                               1.20           0.12            0.09
OPEX/Gross fixed assets                   0.09%          0.11%           0.12%
Receivables day                              215            184             126
Payables day                                   38           116              84
Debt to equity                               9.6         (39.5)          (36.0)
RoE                                           0%          182%             85%

* Cash Flow statement is not audited. Values in the summary table are based
on the World Bank financial projections document.

** The latest income statements and cash flow statements provided by NREA
was for FY2008/2009. No cash flow statement data is available for 2006, 2007
and 2008


i.e. actual cash flow data is only available for 2009. Therefore, DSCR and self
finance ratio are calculated for 2008/2009 only.




                                    39
     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
          Names                               Title                 Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Rome Chavapricha              Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         MNSSD   Financial Specialist
Lizmara Kirchner              Water and Sanitation Specialist       LCSUW   Operations Analyst
Armando Ribeiro Araujo        Consultant (Procurement)              LCSTR   Procurement Specialist
Anna Bjerde                   Task Team Leader                      AFTSN   Team Leader
Mohamed Yahia Ahmed Said
                              Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM Financial Management
Abd El Karim
Mohab Awad Mokhtar
                              Sr. Energy Specialist                 MNSEG Energy Specialist
Hallouda

Supervision/ICR
Chandrasekar Govindarajalu    Sr. Energy Specialist                 MNSEG Energy Specialist
Fowzia Hassan                 Energy Specialist                     MNSEG Energy Specialist
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein
                              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Financial Management
El-Shorbagi
Ferhat Esen                   Energy Specialist                     MNSEG Financial Analysis
Mohab Awad Mokhtar
                              Senior Energy Specialist              MNSEG Energy Specialist
Hallouda
Maged Mahmoud Hamed           Senior Environmental Specialist       MNSEN   Environment
Sydnella E. Kpundeh           Program Assistant                     MNSSD   Administration
Reinaldo Goncalves Mendonca   Consultant                            AFTEG   Procurement
Govinda Timilsina             Sr. Economist                          DEC    Economist
David Kearney                 Consultant                            SASDE   CSP Specialist
Laila Mohammad Kotb           Program Assistant                     MNSSD   Administration




                                             40
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                           USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                 0.00                           28,936.66
  FY99*                                0.00                           21,079.00
  FY00*                                6.36                           31,946.17
  FY01                                 9.75                           44,920.12
  FY02                                 6.00                           26,442.65
  FY03                                 3.99                           20,082.50
  FY04                                11.40                           60,307.84
  FY05                                 9.37                           30,468.17
  FY06                                15.61                           70,796.91
  FY07*                               22.74                          117,109.30
  FY08                                 8.98                           19,307.17
 Total:                                                              471,396.49

 Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                  0.00                              248.03
 FY08                                  3.37                           20,741.64
 FY09                                  9.27                           48,352.08
 FY10                                  9.44                           56,219.32
 FY11                                  8.03                           34,368.05
 FY12                                 10.35                           61,309.80
 Total:                                                              221,238.90




                                 41
                                  Annex 5. Technical Annex
Introduction

The project is located in Kureimat, about 87 km South of Cairo (Al Qahirah) – Capital of
Egypt. The site is located on the eastern side of the Nile river, at a northern latitude of 29° 16'
and an eastern longitude of 31° 15'. The Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) project
consists of Combined Cycle Island (120 MW) and Solar Island (20 MW), the total gross power
capacity of approximately 140 MW. The project associated with equipment and facilities
including interfaces and connections to the Grid.

The construction of the ISCC Kureimat power plant started in January 2008 and reached
commercial operation as a whole at the end of June 2011. The plant is owned by the New and
Renewable Energy Authority (NREA) of the Ministry of Electricity and Energy of Egypt. The
Global Environmental Facility (GEF), accessed through the World Bank, has contributed a
grant of USD 49.8 Million towards the incremental cost of solar electricity generation.

The ISCC Project was implemented in two contract lots:

(1) One Contract Lot for Solar Island that comprised engineering, procurement, construction,
commissioning and two (2) years operation and maintenance (EPC cum O&M). ORASCOM
Construction Industries, (OCI) was the contractor and subcontracted FLAGSOL (a subsidiary
of Solar Millennium AG) of Germany.

(2) One Contract Lot for Combined Cycle Island comprising engineering, procurement,
construction, commissioning and extended two (2) year warranty period. The contractor was
IBERDROLA Ingenieria y Construction, S.A.U. (Iberinco) of Spain.

Technology Concept

The Solar Island consists of a parabolic trough solar field, the heat transfer fluid (HTF) system
up to the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the Solar Heat Exchangers, associated control systems
and control and service buildings. The Contractor for the Solar Island (ORASCOM) guarantees
the supply of solar heat to the solar heat exchangers as a function of direct normal irradiation
(DNI) and incident angle of the sun.

The Combined Cycle Island consists of one gas turbine, one heat recovery steam generator
(HRSG), one steam turbine, solar heat exchangers plus all associated control and balance of
plant equipment and installations.

The Contractor for Combined Cycle Island (IBERDROLA) guarantees the generation of
electricity and the heat rate as a function of ambient temperature and supply of solar heat from
the Solar Island.

The scope split between the Solar Island and the Combined Cycle Island of the project is
shown in the figure below. The thermodynamic interface between Solar Island and Combined
Cycle Island is the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the solar heat exchanger.



                                              42
                      Technology Concept and scope of responsibility

Commissioning

Commissioning activities started on 29 March 2010. The activities initiated at that time were
based on loop-by-loop testing with a temporary HTF test rig, rather than a full solar field test,
which requires operation of the Combined Cycle Island. Loop-by-loop testing was authorized
prior to the issuance of the Solar Island Completion Certificate by NREA. The basis for this
decision was the contractual allowance in the EPC contract for the Solar Island to be
commissioned loop-by-loop in case the Combined Cycle Island completion was delayed. When
this decision was made it was clear that the Combined Cycle Island would not be able to
achieve its original schedule. And it was expected that the Combined Cycle Island would not
be available for the Solar Island Commissioning activities at the expected date of
ORASCOM’s Commissioning activities (after issuance of Solar Island Completion Certificate).
Since the loop-by-loop Commissioning needed around 5-7months, assuming 1-2 loop tests per
week, it was practical and expedient to commence loop-by-loop testing.

In addition, this decision was made under the condition that in case the Combined Cycle Island
would be available for the integrated Commissioning activities before ORASCOM finished its
loop-by-loop Commissioning activities, ORASCOM would switch to the integrated full Solar
Island commissioning. However, since the loops are technically self-contained and no loop
related work was outstanding, there was no reason to hinder the early start of the loop-by-loop
Commissioning. Apart from that, the loop-by-loop Commissioning requires every loop to pass
the performance test, whereas the performance test of the complete solar field would require
the solar field to pass the test as a whole. With respect to the thermal performance, the
complete solar field test is less challenging since lower performing loops are equalized by
higher performing loops.



                                             43
ISCC Plant Design

In reference day-mode (i.e., with solar operation) conditions (700 Watt/m²) direct normal
irradiation at solar noon of 21 March and 20°C ambient temperature, the Solar Island will
generate about 50 MJ/s of solar heat at a temperature of 393 °C; this enables the ISCC to
generate 134.3 MW of net electric power output.

The table below shows the technical key data for the ISCC Kureimat according to the EPC
Contract and the latest construction design. The design thermal power of the Solar Island will
be reached for DNI values between 700 and 800 Watt/m² depending on incident angle and
status of the solar field availability.

                                   Table 4: Key Technical Data




Solar Heat Exchanger

The Solar heat exchangers were in scope of the Combined Cycle Island Contractor. The solar
heat exchanger equipment is designed to receive energy from the solar field by means of the
HTF and to convert into high pressure/high temperature steam. The heat exchanger system
comprises two trains - operating in parallel mode - each consisting of one economizer and one
evaporator, both being a tube-and-shell design. The normal operating temperature of the HTF
is 393 °C at the inlet of the evaporator and 293 °C at the outlet of the economizer. Both heat
exchangers combined have a total capacity of 100 MW (Thermal). The solar heat exchanger
unit generates saturated steam of approximately 90 bar (depending on load conditions), which
is mixed with saturated steam from the high pressure steam drum. The solar heat exchanger
system is equipped with all necessary piping, instrumentation, measuring and control devices
in order to assure a safe and efficient operation of the recovered solar energy.

Equipment Capacities

The Kureimat project was originally envisioned to operate with a total 150 MW capacity, with
approximately 74 MW generated by the gas turbine and 76 MW generated by the steam turbine.
The steam turbine output was to be comprised of approximately 40 MW generated from gas
turbine exhaust energy and 36 MW generated from the solar field contribution. During the
evaluation of the initial bids, it was determined that the solar field capacity would need to be
reduced to 20 MW to meet cost targets. This resulted in a reduced total capacity of 134 MW at
rated, or nominal, conditions (see Table on previous page).


                                             44
Because of this change, the steam turbine cycle and its ancillary equipment, notably the solar
heat exchangers, could have been reduced in capacity to match the new solar field nominal
output. However, in discussions with the supplier, it proved to be cost-effective to retain the
bottoming cycle equipment at the original capacities. At certain times of the year (for example,
a good summer day), the solar field output would be higher than the nominal 20 MW because
of the better solar conditions, and consequently the solar field could, at those times, produce
more steam than the nominal limit. Since the steam turbine cycle and solar heat exchangers are
oversized, however, their capacity to accept a higher solar field steam flow exceeds the
nominal limit. Without this condition, a portion of the solar field would need to be defocused
at such times to reduce its output; with this condition, such defocusing will rarely be required
and solar field contribution will exceed 20 MW.

The graphic below illustrates these relationships:




                          Figure 5: Variance of Peak and Design Conditions




                                              45
                                   Figure 6: Solar Collector Field

Solar Field Layout

The solar field, see Figure 6, consists of 40 loops with each having 4 SKAL-ET 150 parabolic
trough collectors. The total aperture of one collector is 817.15 m² (total solar field aperture is
130,800 m²). The solar collector elements have been assembled in an assembly hall at the
construction site. The design of the collectors varies depending on their position in the solar
field (exposed to higher or lower loads) and consequently also the solar collector element
foundation design varies. At its 100% operation point the solar field is able to deliver 61
MW(thermal) which is being transferred by the HTF system to the solar heat exchanger in the
Combined Cycle Island.

The solar field is separated in an east and a west section each comprising of 20 loops, where at
the northern sides of these sections consist of 9 and the southern sides of 11 loops. Additional
space for a total four spare loops is available.

HTF System

The HTF system is designed for a HTF mass flow of 250 kg/s at 100% load. The HTF is
Therminol VP-1 from Solutia. Hot HTF returning from the solar field at 393 °C is pumped
through the solar heat exchanger. The HTF leaves the solar heat exchanger at 293 °C and is

                                              46
pumped back into the solar field. The main HTF stream at 293 °C leaves the power block area
at the southern end and is firstly split in the solar field by control valves into two streams: one
stream flows into the east and the other one into the west section. These streams are feeding 20
solar collector loops each on the east and west side.

The HTF is pumped into the solar field by 3 x 50% HTF main pumps. HTF flow through the
loops is controlled per individual adjusting valves. The HTF system of the ISCC Kureimat
includes an expansion, an ullage and a reclamation system. For freeze protection reasons the
HTF system is equipped with a natural gas fired freeze protection heater and freeze protection
pumps.

Project Execution

ORASCOM started execution in January 2008 with the civil works for the main access road
works according to the contract milestones. The priorities of the area works were staggered
starting from area 3 to 1, 2 then 4. The reason was to prepare at least one area as soon as
possible to start also with the erection of the solar collectors.

In July 2008 the assembly hall for the assembly of the solar collector elements was ready and
in September 2008 ORASCOM had completed the pedestals for the solar collector pylons,
which were essential to start with the erection of the solar collector elements. The excavation
works of the electrical building in the solar field were completed in November 2008 and in
April 2009 the concrete works of the electrical building were complete.

In January 2009 the solar collector element assembly and erection commenced, starting with
the erection of the solar collector elements in area 3. This delay, due to late availability of
assembly line components, was overcome by a high production rate for the solar collector
elements by extending shifts. Photogrammetric quality control assured that the increased
production rate did not cause any quality losses. In February 2009 all foundation works for the
solar field components and the concrete works for the wind breaks (design height 6.5 m) had
been completed.




               Figure 7: Photogrammetry Station to Assure the Quality of the Assembly

                                              47
However an unexpected problem was the corrosion in the spring plate of the collectors. It was
noticed by FICHTNER SOLAR that after a certain time of the collectors exposed to the
environment the spring plates started to corrode. ORASCOM carried out an analysis which
indicated that the quality of the material did not meet the specifications. Consequently
ORASCOM had to order new spring plates and change these on the erected collectors in the
solar field.

The unexpected harsh environmental conditions due to the unforeseen high pollution (high
concentration of Sulfides and Chlorine) caused also corrosion on the chromatic bearings and
the hydraulic pistons of the solar collectors. ORASCOM expects that the corrosion effects will
become limited when the solar field is in continuous operation, and the aggressive dust and dirt
is stripped away from the surfaces through regular cleaning. This remains to be proven.

Nevertheless, after intensive discussions of several experts from NREA, FICHTNER SOLAR
and ORASCOM, further appropriate countermeasures (spare parts, other materials and
protective covers) were taken to deal with corrosion problem. In October 2009 all SCE’s were
erected in zone no. 2; in March 2010 the erection of the SCE’s in all four zones was completed.

The erection works mainly ended in March/April 2010. However due to many pending minor
mechanical and general Pre-commissioning works, the completion and the official release for
the commissioning phase was still outstanding. In particular, this delay was caused by the
unavailability of interfaces that were to be provided by the Combined Cycle Island EPC. Due
to the unavailability of the Combined Cycle solar heat exchanger, the trial operation tests were
performed isolated from the Combined Cycle.

As defined in the EPC Contract all functional tests, pre-commissioning tests and Trial
Operation were carried out starting from about April 2010 and ending at the beginning of
January 2011. Finally, at the beginning of January 2011 the Solar Island EPC finalized all pre-
commissioning works and officially completed the construction phase.

In January 2010 the solar heat exchanger (scope of the Combined Cycle Island) was available
for the electrical consumption test which also was witnessed and approved by NREA and
FICHTNER SOLAR. Finally the reliability test was approved and the Operational Acceptance
Certificate was issued with the validity date 01 June 2011. Unfortunately due to the
unavailability of the solar heat exchanger due to a leakage, the Solar Island operation had to be
interrupted regularly for boiling out (extraction of water from the HTF system). However, there
was adequate time for operation of the Solar Island to detect further optimization potential and
take measures for immediate implementation by ORASCOM.

Corrosion

As noted earlier, after a short period corrosion and pitting started on specific surfaces of the
erected solar collector elements. This phenomenon was noticeable after two weeks of erection.
Three different authorities made analysis of the environment and took samples of the corroded
material at the site. These analyses were started in September 2009 and revealed that the
environment contains high concentration of sulfur. In addition to the spring plates, the


                                             48
conclusion was that the sulfuric acid attacked the chromatic surface of torque tube and pistons
of drive pylon and consequently the pitting started, as shown in Figure 8 and Figure 9.




                     Figure 8: Pitting Occurred in Torque Tubes of the Collector




            Figure 9: Pitting Occurred on the Chromatic Surface of the Drive Pylon Piston

According to the approved procedure from ORASCOM, all the pistons of the drive pylons had
to be replaced by pistons with a Powder Flame Spraying Layer (NiCrBSi- Material) according
to EN 1274:2004 – 2.9 including Cu/Mo to provide the highest level of corrosion resistance
against sulfuric acid. It is expected by the EPC contractor of the Solar Island that the new
hydraulic cylinders will withstand this corrosion throughout the lifetime of the plant.

According to the approved procedure on-site, the chromatic surfaces of the torque tube, which
is the part of SCE end plate, were cleaned by a special cleaner which removes the rust particles
from the pitting, and sprayed with Zinc-Alu spray to protect the chromatic surface.
Additionally, rubber bellows were mounted over the torque tube to protect the tube surface
from the severe environmental conditions, as shown in Fig 10 below.




                                               49
                       Fig 10: Mounting of rubber bellows over torque tubes



Time Schedule

Both EPC contractors started in January 2008, ORASCOM on the 3rd and IBERDROLA on
the 16th. The ORASCOM time schedule projected 30 months until commercial operation, i.e.
beginning of July 2010, and the IBERDROLA time schedule projected 33 months until
commercial operation, i.e. middle of October 2010. Both EPC contractors fell short of these
targets commercial operation dates due to different reasons. However, the decisive reasons
where the suspension of work by the Combined Cycle Island IPC due to a missing letter of
credit by NREA. As a consequence of this suspension, the required interfaces by IBERDROLA,
such as power supply to the Solar Island and availability of the solar heat exchanger, were
significantly delayed. Hence, ORASCOM was unable to carry out its work, causing a delay in
completion of the Solar Island.

The revolution in Egypt which started in January 2011 also had a decisive schedule related
negative impact on both EPC contractors. However it is noted that both EPC contractors
resumed their construction works in an exemplary manner. In view of the above mentioned
reasons, the Solar Island started commercial operation on June 28 2011 with a delay of about 9
months.

Pre-commissioning

The pre-commissioning of the Solar Island was comprised of functional tests of the particular
components of all disciplines, plant protection related pre-commissioning tests, and trial
operation of the complete ISCC plant. However, the Combined Cycle Island was not available
as a whole for the combined trial operation as scheduled, delaying several of those steps.

                                             50
The trial operation test of the Solar Island included the following contractual verifications and
checks:
    Start-up tests
    Verification of start-up times and loading rates
    Operating stability when operated in the full range of load conditions with load
        variations
    Start-up tests of the Plant equipment, facilities and systems including checking of
        automatic change-over of standby facilities
    Verification of vibration and noise emission guarantees
    Environmental monitoring equipment, water quality monitoring equipment, functioning
        tests and verification of guarantees
    Verification of completeness of scope of supply.
    Following protocols have been used for the trial operation in their revision 02:
    Trial Operation - Operating Stability
    KU1_Pre-com Trial operation Verification of completeness of scope of supply
    Trial Operation - Start-tests, verification of start-up times and loading rates (including
        Mode 1 and 2)

Trial Operation - Test Mode 3 (Shutdown)
     Trial Operation - Test Mode 4 (Freeze protection mode without heating)
     Trial Operation - Test Mode 5 (Freeze protection mode with heating)
     Trial Operation - Test Mode 6 (Emergency flow)
     Emergency Power & UPS System
     Main Pumps
     Freeze Protection Pumps
     Start up Ullage system.

These protocols were adjusted to the circumstances that it was uncertain if the solar heat
exchanger would be available for the tests and hence - where applicable - a case distinction
was made for “with? or “without solar heat exchanger?. The trial operation was executed from
the temporary control room in HTF building basement where Distributed Control System
(DCS) and Field Supervisory Control (FSC) were temporarily located at that time. For all tests
it was necessary to continuously adapt the protocols, since a number of DCS programming
mistakes appeared, and consequently reprogramming was necessary. The functional
description of the Solar Island also had to be revised several times. Finally however, all tests
have been completed successfully by the middle of December 2010.




                                             51
Views of a portion of the completed solar field, and a single loop




        Figure 11: The Complete Loop with Insulation Works




       Figure12: The Washing Truck and Washing Operation


                             52
                           Annex 6. Early Commercial Operation

ISCC

Since June 2011 operation had been below design capacity levels due to the O&M problems in
the Combined Cycle Island. The following table summarizes the operating status from June
through mid-December 2011.

       Table 5: Operating Status




Specific information on the causes for each off-line or part-load operational period are not
known at this time (See Annex 9 for key issues faced). However, the information received to
date points to problems with full-load operation of the combustion (gas) turbine and
unscheduled downtime periods associated with water leakage into the HTF in the solar heat
exchangers (which are part of the Combined Cycle Island equipment). As of April 2012,
normal operation of the full plant has resumed.

The relative net power delivered each month by the Kureimat facility during this period is
shown below. For calibration, the June value is 73.1 GWh; November is 37.5 GWh. At full
load daily operation, without solar, the monthly output would be approximately 94 GWh. This
data shows that the plant was typically operating in a part-load condition during the 2011
period after startup. The plant capacity factors calculated from a NREA output table are June-
88%; July-21%; Aug-64%; Sep-45%; Oct-2%; Nov-45%. Parasitic power consumption
averages about 6%. At present, there is insufficient data to quantify the solar contribution for
each month. A better record of plant data will require careful examination of plant performance
once a more stable operating mode is attained. Operation during 2011 and earlier is
summarized in Table 6-2 (below) using data provided by NREA and Flagsol.

Operation and Maintenance status – early April 2012
ISCC Plant

The ISCC power plant was operating satisfactorily in early April 2012 having overcome
problems in the combined cycle, primarily with the gas turbine but also with the solar heat

                                            53
exchangers. NREA stated that the main reasons for the unscheduled down period of the ISCC
system are the diverter damper, hydraulic oil system, and the gas turbine (transition pieces).
The gas turbine inlet air filters had also been a continuing challenge. It appears that most, but
not all, of these problems have been solved.

Solar Heat Exchangers

The solar heat exchangers produce steam using the heat collected by the solar field. The units
are shell-and-tube heat exchangers with water on one side and HTF on the other. The solar
heat exchangers consist of two parallel sets, each carrying 50% of the peak load. Leakage of
water into the oil has been a continuing problem, and usually occurs at the tube sheets. As of
early April one set is out of service, limiting the steam turbine output to 50% of its potential
level.

Solar Field Thermal Performance Acceptance Tests

1-Performance Test without Combined Cycle: Loop-by-Loop Performance Test with Mobile
Test Unit (MTU)

Results – Loop-by-Loop Performance Test
• Amount of tested loops: 40
• Amount of approved loop tests: 40
• Duration of each loop test: 10 minutes
• Test period for 40 loops: 29th of March 2010 to 19th of November 2010
• Average loop efficiency: approx. 105 %

The loop-by-loop data is shown graphically in the following Figure:




                                   Figure 13: Loop-by-loop data


                                             54
2-Performance Test with Combined Cycle: Entire Solar Field Performance Test

• Test Duration: 1 hour for each test mode (Day-Mode and Night-Mode)
• Condition for passing of thermal performance test:
Net Electrical Output (NEO) ≥ Guaranteed Net Electrical Output Corrected to Test Conditions
(CGNEO) – Tolerance for Test Mode & Net Heat Rate (NHR) ≤ Guaranteed Net Heat Rate
Corrected to Test Conditions (CGNHR) + Tolerance for Test Mode
• Performance test carried out according to code ASME PTC 46:1996.
This test was completed on 23rd of May 2011 for Day-Mode and on 24th of May 2011 for
Night-Mode with duration of 1 hour for each test. The results are shown below.




                                Figure 14: Performance Test Results



ISCC Plant Status (early April 2012)

ISCC Plant

The solar field supplies thermal energy to the solar heat exchanger (HEX) train to produce
steam, which supplements the turbine steam from the HRSG to increase the output of the steam
turbine. The solar field tracks the sun on a single axis, absorbing direct normal radiation. Due
to excellent performance of the solar field, 71% of the direct radiation incident on the aperture
of the parabolic troughs is delivered to the HTF flowing through the solar field to generate
steam in the solar heat exchanger.

ISCC Plant

The ISCC power plant was out-of-operation several times due to problems in the Combined
Cycle Island, primarily with the gas turbine but also with the solar heat exchangers. In early
April, NREA stated that the main reasons for the unscheduled down time of the ISCC system
are the diverter damper, hydraulic oil system, and the gas turbine (transition pieces). It appears
that most, but not all, of these problems have been solved at this juncture.

Solar Heat Exchangers

The solar heat exchangers produce steam using the heat collected by the solar field. The units
are shell-and-tube heat exchangers with water on one side and HTF on the other. Leakage of

                                              55
water into the oil has been a continuing problem, and usually occurs at the tube sheets. The
solar heat exchangers consist of two parallel trains, each carrying 50% of the peak load. As of
early April one set is out of service, limiting the steam turbine output to 50% of its potential
level.

ISCC Plant Output

Table 6 below shows partial ISCC performance from June 2011 through March 2012. In all
months the solar field was available to operate at or near design capacity, but its operation was
curtailed by the inability of the solar HEXs or the steam turbine cycle to accept design solar
field steam output levels. This is by no means representative of a fully operational period. The
reduced CO2 emissions due to the solar field performance are also presented in the table where
the solar field thermal output is available.

                           Table 6: Plant Production Data July-Feb 2012




As an example, the next plot illustrates the solar field data for November. In general the solar
field has demonstrated performance over warranty levels. The red bars below show the actual
performance; the blue bars show the warranty performance; the orange line shows the ratio of
actual/warranty in % (see right axis for scale).




                                             56
Figure 15: Solar Field Data for November 2011




                   57
      Annex 7. Beneficiary Survey Results


N/A




                    58
      Annex 8. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                           59
           Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 From:          "NREA's Vice Chairman" <nre2.nrea@gmail.com>
 To:            worldbank <mhamed1@worldbank.org>, fhassan2@worldbank.org, mhalloda@worldbank.org
 Cc:            Chairman <nre@idsc.net.eg>, oaelgowainy@yahoo.com, Moustafa_nrea@yahoo.com,
                moyhn99 <moyhn99@gmail.com>
Date:           04/10/2012 10:02 AM
Subject:        Draft implementation completion report (ICR) For Kuraymat Project.




Dear Sir/Ms;



Reference is made to your e-mail dated March 11th, 2012 concerning the a/m subject and
further to NREA's reply to the questions mentioned in the ICR.



Please be informed that NREA thanks you for the report and we confirm our acceptance for the
basic information, key dates, ratings summary, sector and theme codes included in the data
sheet.



Please find NREA comments and reply to the items raised in the meeting held today April, 4th,
2012 with World Bank representatives.



First: Regarding the extension for the EPC warranty period is as follows:
    1. For the solar field:

According to EPC contract, the warranty period is two years started on June, 1st, 2011 on the
same day the operation and maintenance contract has been started. According to addendum No.
1 for the EPC contract between NREA & Orascom, the warranty period for:
    a. HTF pumps extended for three years from the date of issuance the final acceptance certificate.
    b. The collectors bearings and bellows extended for three years from the date of issuance the final
    acceptance certificate.
    c. All hydraulic piston rods will be replaced by new ones.
    2.     For the Combined Cycle Component:

HTF evaporator #2 extended for one year further according to the execution agreement for
issuing of operational acceptance certificate signed between NREA & Iberdrola on Dec., 14 th,
2011.
   - Default of operation heat exchangers:

The unsuccessful operation of heat exchanger due to repairing because of water leakage to oil
side, this effects the integration with the solar field. In this case the solar field will be out-of-
service either completely or partially meanwhile, the combined cycle (GT - ST) is running and
it was connected to grid to produce the base load.

                                               60
Second: The main problems of combined cycle:
      1. Heat Exchanger No.2: Leakage of tube and shell flanged happened many times.
      Heat Exchanger No.2 is still out-of-service therefore, the max. thermal generated power
      is limited.
      2. Gas turbine (Transition pieces): GE replaced 5 transition pieces and Gas turbine
      is running probably.
      3. Diverter damper: The vendor NEM adjusted the two hanges of the diverter
      damper and they were welded according the drawing of the manufacturer. The problem
      solved. This problem leads to stop the operation from March, 10th, 2012 to April, 4th,
      2012.
      4. Dissolved Oxygen: The Dissolved Oxygen reached to 30PPb at the dereator outlet.
      The vender stork check this reading by another device and he found that the actual
      reading 1ppb. The problem is the calibration of the measuring device.
      5. Some valves of HRSG have leakage inside their body: The problem hasn't
      solved yet and this causes increasing the consumption of demineralized water.
      6. The hydraulic oil pump#2: The coupling was broken and GE replaced it by new
      one and according to GE, the reason is due to the decreasing the pressure of hydraulic
      oil from 105bar to 95bar for pump#1 and to 91bar for pump#2.
      7. The circuit breaker SF6/66KV : The problem is leakage of the gas SF6 and this
      problem was solved by NREA staff with assistance from Upper Egypt Electricity
      Production Company for testing filling through the QA and QC dept.
      8. The vacuum pump#2: The shaft of the pump was broken and the steam turbine is
      running by the standby vacuum pump#1. The contractor didn't solve this problem till
      now.
      9. Intake filters of axial compressor of Gas turbine.
      NREA replaced 50% of the filters by new ones and Gas turbine is running probably.

  - The ISCC power plant is out-of-operation due to problems in the combined cycle.
  The main reason for that is the defect of diverter damper, hydraulic oil system, gas
  turbine (transition pieces). Therefore, NREA will extend the warranty period for the
  combined cycle for 2.5 months, this period equal to the period which the facilities or
  such part affect the operation and production of the plant.



Third: reference to you e-mail dated March, 29th, 2012 regarding your request for some
additional financial data:
       -     W.B.: The cost of the combined cycle component of ISCC plant which is 17.43
       billion of Japanese Yens meanwhile the value that was informed by JICA is 20.1 billion
       of Japanese Yens.
       -     NREA: The difference between the Combined Cycle Contract price and JICA's
       evaluation value results from the following additional amounts:
             Consultant contract value.
             Gas turbine spare parts and its accessories.
       -     And there are other additional costs equal to 185 Million L.E. as the following
       items:

                                           61
           Customs fees 17572029.72 L.E.
           Taxes 71407449.9 L.E.
           Interests 95561125.4 L.E.



Fourth: Please find attached the generated power from ISCC plant during July, 2010 to
March, 2012.

We hope these answers let you satisfied. If you have any further questionnaires,
don't hesitate to contact us.

Best regards,

Vice Chairman
For Projects & Operation




                                          62
       Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None Received.




                                     63
                     Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents


1. Assessment of World Bank/GEF Strategy for Market Development of Concentrating Solar
   Thermal Power, World Bank, 2006
2. Mariyappan J and D. Anderson, “Thematic Review of GEF Financed Solar Thermal Projects?
   Monitoring and Evaluation Working Paper 7, Global Environmental Facility, 2001
3. Enermodal, 1999. Cost Reduction Study for Solar Thermal Power Plants, Kitchener, Ontario:
   Enermodal Engineering Limited
4. “Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region Assessment of Local Manufacturing Potential
   for Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) Projects? World Bank, March 2011.




                                         64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 39155

                                                                        ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                         KUREIMAT INTEGRATED SOLAR
                                       COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
                                                                                          KUREIMAT INTEGRATED SOLAR COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT SITE


                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                               GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                        GOVERNORATES IN NILE DELTA:
                                                                                                                                                        1   KAFR EL SHEIKH                      7   DAGAHLIYA
                   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                        2   DAMIETTA                            8   MENOUFIYA
                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                     3   PORT SAID                           9   SHARGIYAH
                                                                                                                                                        4   ALEXANDRIA                         10   QALIUBIYA
                   RIVERS                                                                                                                               5   BEHEIRA                            11   ISMAILIA
                                                                                                                                                        6   GHARBIYA


                25°E                                                                      30°E                                                                               35°E


                                      M e d i t e r r a n e a n                                          S e a                           WEST BANK
                                                                                                                                         AND GAZA
                       Salum
                                                 Marsa Matruh                                                        2 Damietta
                                                                                                      Kafr el
                                                                                                    1 Sheikh                       Port Said El'Arish
                                                                            Alexandria
       Libyan Plateau                                                             Damanhur                   El Mansura 3                                         ISRAEL                      JORDAN
                                                                                        4             6 Tanta 7 9
                                                                                                              Zagizig
                                                                                        Shibin el Kom 8                 Ismailia
                                                                                                    Benha                                     NORTHERN
                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                             5             10                                   SINAI
30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30°N
                                                            Qattara                                  Giza         CAIRO SUEZ Suez
                                                           Depression                   6th of October             Helwan
                                                                                                                                                                      Taba
                                        Qara                                                                      HELWAN
                                                                                           El Fayoum                KUREIMAT
                 Siwa                                                                                                                             SOUTHERN
                                                                                          EL FAYOUM
                              MARSA MATRUH                                                                   Beni Suef                              SINAI




                                                                                                                                                                              Aqaba
                                                                                                                                      Gu
                                                                                           BENI SUEF                                            Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                        lf
                                                                                                                                         of




                                                                                                                                                                      Gulf of
                                                                                                                                           Su
                                                                                                                              Ras Gharib
                                                          6TH OF OCTOBER                AL MINYA
                                                                                                                                             ez
                                                                                                                                                        El Tur
                                                                                           Al Minya
                                                                                                                                                                                            ARAB REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                       E



                                                                                                                                                                                                OF EGYPT
                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                         a




 LIBYA
                                                                                                                                             s t
                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                               AL BAHR
                                                                                                          illle
                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                              e




                                                                                          ASSIUT                                                            Al Ghurdaqah
                                                                                                                                                 e r
                                                                                                                                                 e r



                                                                                                                  Assiut
                                                                                                                             AL AHMAR
                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                    Riv
                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                     i




                                                                                                                                                             Bir Seiyala
                                                                                                                     er




                                      W e s t e r n
                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                      r




                                                                                                                           Sohag
                                                                                                                               SOHAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAUDI
                                                                                                                                                        D e
                L i




                                                                                                                                         Qena
                                                                                                                                                          e s




                                                                                                                                                                      Quseir
                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARABIA
                  i b




                                                                                                                                                            s e




                                            Desert
                                                                                                                                             QENA                                             Red
                                                                                                                                                                r t




                                                                                                                                        Luxor
                      y a




                                            A L WA D I                Mut               El-Kharga                                       LUXOR (city)
                                                                                                                                                                  t




                                                                        .
                        a n




25°N                                        AL JADID                                                                                                                                  Marsa 'Alam                        25°N

                                                                                                                                                ASWAN
                        D e




                                                                                                                                              Kom Ombo
                          e s e




                                                                                                                          Aswan Dam           Aswan

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sea
                              e r t




                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                            Nasser


                                                                                                                                                                                                                Halaib




                                                                              SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                    0        50       100             150    200 Kilometers


                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                0             50                   100        150 Miles
20°N                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                     20°N
                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
         25°E                                                                            30°E                                                                                          35°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARCH 2012
