Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND NUMBER TF28309 
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(National Biodiversity Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated June 5, 1996
 
Page  2
GEF Trust Fund Number TF28309 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1996, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (the GEF), in respect of 
grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust 
Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 
1991 of its Executive Directors, established the GEF, to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
WHEREAS (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements 
are continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994 establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, 
and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the 
provisions of such Resolution 94-2;  
 
WHEREAS (D) the GEF participants have approved this Project 
understanding  that it is associated with the National Environmental Project which 
is being financed in part by the Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement No. 3173-
BR, dated August 16, 1990, between the Recipient and the Bank; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said grant funds (the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant) upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-2-
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 
with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i)  
Article I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii)  
Section 3.01; 
 
(iv)   
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
 
(v)  Article 
V; 
 
(vi)   
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
 
(vii)  
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08; 
 
(ix)   
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
 
(x)  Article 
XI; 
and 
 
(xi)   
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: "the term `Special Drawing Rights' and the 
symbol `SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement"; 
Page  4
-3-
 
(ii)  
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8), 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, 
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development acting as an Implementing Agency of the 
Global Environment Facility; 
 
(iii)  the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient; 
 
(iv)    the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi)   the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
is credited; 
 
(vii)  
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or service 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”; and 
 
(viii) 
a new subparagraph (l) shall be added after subparagraph (k) 
in Section 6.02 as follows:  
 
Page  5
-4-
 
“(l) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in 
which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust  
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF Trust Fund Grant.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) “CNPq” means Conselho
Nacional
de
Desenvolvimento
Científico
e
Tecnológico
,
the Recipient's Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development; 
 
(b) “CNPq Arrangement” means the arrangement referred to in Section 
3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) “First-Round Subprojects” means the following projects, under Part B.1 
of the Project, already approved by the Bank: (i) a project, to be carried out by 
Fundação
de
Apoio
a
Recursos
Genéticos
e
Biotecnologia
Dalmo
Catauli
Giacometti
,
for conservation of plant genetic resources, consisting of the 
development of a program for the sustainable management of selected wild plant 
species, chosen on the basis of their high conservation priority value and potential 
for sustainable economic use, and establishment of an initiative for the economic 
development of such genetic resources; (ii) a project, to be carried out by Fundação
de
Empreendimento
Científico
e
Tecnologia
,
for the restoration and boundary 
stabilization of natural and partially degraded gallery forests in the Federal District 
and adjacent regions of the States of Minas Gerais and Goias; (iii) a project, to be 
carried out by Sociedade
para
Proteção
da
Vida
Selvagem
to improve management 
of conservation units in the Atlantic Forest in the northeast  of the State of Parana; 
(iv) a project, to be carried out by Fundação
Universitária
José
Bonifácio
,
to 
develop a technical and scientific model for biodiversity conservation of the 
Atlantic Forest in the north of the State of Espírito Santo; and (v) a project, to be 
carried out by Fundação
de
Apoio
ao
Desenvolvimento
da
Universidade
Federal
de
Pernambuco
,
to restore and conserve the threatened ecosystem of the eastern 
escarpment area in the States of Pernambuco and Paraiba; 
 
(d) “Implementing Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  6
-5-
 
(e)  
“Implementing Entity” means any entity which is selected, 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, to carry out a 
component of Part A or Part B of the Project, provided that: (i) the Implementing 
Entity selected to coordinate the carrying 
Page  7
-6-
 
out of Part A.3 of the Project is 
Fundação
Tropical
de
Pesquisa
e
Tecnologia
André
Tosello
;
and (ii) the Implementing Entities selected to carry out the First-Round 
Subprojects are those indicated in paragraph (c) of this Section; 
 
(f) “MMA” means the Recipient's Ministry of the Environment, Water 
Resources and the Legal Amazon; 
 
(g) “Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, containing, 
inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, the criteria for 
selection of Implementing Entities and eligibility of Second-Round Subprojects and 
the activities under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project (such criteria to require, inter 
alia, that the Second-Round Subprojects follow appropriate environmental practices 
and address any sensitive social issue), indicators to monitor the progress of the 
Project, and the model form of Implementing Agreements; 
 
(h) “PRONABIO” means Programa
Nacional
da
Diversidade
Biológica
,
the 
Recipient's National Program for Biodiversity, established pursuant to the 
Recipient's Decree N
°
1.354 of December 29, 1994; 
 
(i)  “PRONABIO Coordinating Commission” means the commission which 
manages PRONABIO, pursuant to the Recipient's Decree referred to in the 
preceding paragraph of this Section;  
 
(j) “Second-Round Subprojects” means projects, under Part B.2 of the 
Project, in the areas of: (i) biodiversity conservation; (ii) sustainable use of 
biodiversity; (iii) policy analysis of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use; 
and (iv) applied research and technology development in biodiversity conservation 
and sustainable use, which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
 
(k) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(l) “Subgrant” means the grant to be provided under an Implementing 
Agreement; 
 
(m) “Subproject” means either a First-Round Subproject or a Second-Round 
Subproject; and 
 
Page  8
-7-
 
(n) 
“Technical Secretariat” means the Coordenação
Geral
de
Diversidade
Biológica
(General Coordination of Biodiversity), established within MMA 
pursuant to MMA's Portaria No. 328 of December 13, 1994. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. 
 
The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million and 
seven hundred and ten thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,710,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant. 
 
(b) The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
through MMA, carry out Part C of the Project; and (ii) cause the Implementing 
Entities to carry out Parts A and B of the Project under the coordination of MMA, 
all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  9
-8-
 
administrative, financial and environmental practices and the provisions of the 
Operational Manual and the CNPq Arrangement, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) For the purposes of the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall 
cause the PRONABIO Coordinating Commission to be responsible for setting 
policies and making decisions regarding the Project, with the assistance of the 
Technical Secretariat and CNPq, all as specified in detail in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
(c)  
The Recipient shall maintain until Project completion the Technical 
Secretariat with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for purposes 
of assisting MMA in the carrying out of Part C of the Project, under the guidance of 
the PRONABIO Coordinating Commission. 
 
(d) The Recipient shall cause MMA and CNPq to enter into arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the CNPq Arrangement), whereby CNPq shall undertake 
to be the Recipient's administrative agent under the Project, until the completion of 
the Project, with responsibility, inter alia, for entering into the Implementing 
Agreements and making disbursements of the Subgrants to the Implementing 
Entities, on behalf of the Recipient, all under the guidance of the Technical 
Secretariat. 
 
(e) The Recipient shall, through CNPq, enter into agreements (the 
Implementing Agreements) with each Implementing Entity, whereby: (i) the 
Recipient shall undertake to transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant required to finance the component of Part A or Part B of the 
Project under the responsibility of such Implementing Entity; and (ii) such 
Implementing Entity shall undertake to carry out such component as provided in 
this Agreement.  The Implementing Agreements shall have terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(f)  The Recipient, through CNPq, shall exercise its rights and comply with 
its obligations under each Implementing Agreement in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any such agreement. 
 
Page  10
-9-
 
Section 3.02. 
 
The Recipient shall obtain the Bank's approval to the 
text of any invitation for proposals for Second-Round Subprojects, before 
publishing such invitation. 
 
Section 
3.03.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.   
The Recipient shall, not later than December 15 of 
each year until the completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank an annual 
operating plan satisfactory to the Bank (the POA), containing a statement of 
specific objectives to be achieved by the Project during the next succeeding year, 
and a detailed description of the activities to be carried out under the Project during 
such year. 
 
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 and September 30 of each 
year until completion of the Project, a report, to be prepared as specified in the 
Operational Manual, on the progress of the Project during the respective calendar 
semester preceding the date of each such report; 
 
(b) furnish to the Bank, not later than one month before the review referred 
to in paragraph (c) below shall take place, a report, to be prepared by an 
independent entity with qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating the progress of the Project until the date of such 
report and making recommendations for the completion of the Project; 
 
(c) not later than the 36th month after the date of this Agreement, 
undertake, jointly with the Bank, an in-depth review of the progress in the 
execution of the Project and in the attainment of its objectives, such review to be 
based, inter alia, on the reports referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 
and on the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(d) take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon by the Recipient and the Bank, during the review referred to in paragraph (c) 
of this Section, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
Page  11
-10-
 
attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such review. 
 
Section 3.06.  The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank, not later than the 
Closing Date, a report, to be prepared by an independent entity with qualifications 
and experience, and under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating 
the execution and the results of the Project. 
 
Page  12
-11-
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
Page  13
-12-
 
the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was  
Page  14
-13-
 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,  
 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such  
 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions: 
 
(a) the Operational Manual has been issued; 
 
(b) the Technical Secretariat has become operational to the satisfaction of 
the Bank; 
 
(c) the CNPq Arrangement has been signed; 
 
(d) the POA for 1996 has been furnished to the Bank; and 
 
(e) the Implementing Agreements for the First Round Subprojects and for 
the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project have been entered into between the 
respective parties thereto. 
 
Section 5.02.  The date September 5, 1996 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  15
-14-
 
Section 5.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the parties to 
this Agreement shall have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01.  The Recipient's Minister of Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco "P" - 8 andar 
 
70048-900 - Brasília - D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex: 
 
MINIFAZ    
611506 
 
Brasília, Brazil 
Page  16
-15-
 
For the Bank: 
 
Director, Country Department I 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
 
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
  248423 
(MCI) 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
 64145  (MCI) 
Page  17
-16-
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL  
 
By /s/ Adrienne Giannetti Nelson de Senna 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Acting as Implementing Agency of the Global 
 
Environment Trust Fund 
 
By /s/ Dennis J. Mahar 
 
Authorized Representative  
Page  18
-17-
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the  
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF 
Trust  
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be  
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR)
to be Financed
(1) 
Parts A.1 and A.2 of 
 
 
 
 
 
 the 
Project: 
 
(a) Goods 
337,000 
100% 
 
(b) Consultants' services 
315,000 
 30% 
 
(c)  Recurrent costs 
22,000 
 25% 
 
(2) 
Part A.3 of the Project: 
 
(a) Works 
42,000 
100% 
 
(b) Goods 
384,000 
100% 
 
(c) Consultants' 
services 
127,000 
 
30% 
 
(d)  Recurrent costs 
19,000 
 25% 
Page  19
-18-
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR)
to be Financed
(3) 
Part B.1 of the Project: 
 
(a) Works 
102,000 
100% 
 
(b) Goods 
564,000 
100% 
 
(c) Consultants' 
services 
349,000 
 
30% 
 
(d)  Recurrent costs 
136,000 
 25% 
 
(4) 
Part B.2 of the Project: 
 
(a) Works 
127,000 
100% 
 
(b) Goods 
1,968,000 
100% 
 
(c) Consultants' 
services 
1,060,000 
 
30% 
 
(d)  Recurrent costs 
196,000 
 25% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
962,000 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 6,710,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "recurrent costs" means 
expenditures incurred, as a result of the execution of the Project, with  office 
materials and supplies and transportation. 
 
Page  20
-19-
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments: 
 
(a) 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
 
(b)  to be made by an Implementing Entity, unless the corresponding 
Implementing Agreement between the Recipient, through CNPq and such 
Implementing Entity has been signed; and 
 
(c) 
to be made by an Implementing Entity in respect of a component of 
Part A.1 or Part A.2 of the Project or of a Second-Round Subproject, as the case 
may be, unless the Bank is satisfied that the recommendation for the eligibility of 
such component or Second-Round Subproject and for the selection of the 
corresponding Implementing Entity has been made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
4. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  If the Bank shall not be satisfied with the additional evidence referred to 
in (A) above, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account the corresponding 
amount not justified. 
 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) works; (b) goods costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (c) consulting firms' 
services costing less than the equivalent of $50,000; (d) individual consultants' 
services costing less than the equivalent of $30,000; and (e) recurrent costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
Page  21
-20-
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in undertaking a 
nationwide program for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, by 
identifying priority actions, stimulating the development of activities which involve 
partnerships between public and private sectors, and disseminating biodiversity 
information. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination
1. 
Carrying out of biodiversity assessments through workshops and studies for 
the purposes of, inter alia, consolidating information on regional and national 
biodiversity, including endemic, threatened and vulnerable species, and identifying 
priority activities and opportunities for the conservation and sustainable use of 
biological resources. 
 
2. 
Dissemination of the findings of the assessments referred to in Part A.1 
above through, inter alia, the publication of maps and books and electronic media. 
 
3. 
Establishment of a national biodiversity information network for the 
purpose of storing, updating and linking information generated in the assessments 
referred to in paragraph 1 above, and providing an efficient means of 
communication about environment conservation both nationally and internationally. 
 
Part B
:
Subprojects
1. 
Carrying out of the First-Round Subprojects. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of the Second-Round Subprojects. 
 
Part C
:
Project Administration
1. 
Management and coordination of Project activities. 
 
Page  22
-21-
 
2. 
Evaluation and integration of the results of the assessments referred to in 
Part A.1 of the Project. 
Page  23
-22-
 
3. 
Provision of support for the preparation of a national biodiversity strategy. 
 
4. 
Monitoring and supervision of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the 
Project. 
 
5. 
Dissemination of Project's results. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001. 
Page  24
-23-
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto (preference for 
domestically manufactured goods) shall apply to goods manufactured in Brazil to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the first 
sentence of this Part B. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 may, and 
works shall, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and 
works in accordance with this Part B.1, bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, 
in standardized form for the Project shall be used. 
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or 
the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works 
to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1: 
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, 
Page  25
-24-
 
whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to 
in 
Page  26
-25-
 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in 
Brazil; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the 
Bank in each case; 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more 
than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the 
unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale. 
 
2. 
National and International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Implementing Entity, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Page  27
-26-
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
(a) Goods and services under recurrent costs, as defined in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, may be directly purchased from a supplier of such 
goods or services. 
 
(b) Goods and works referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 above may be 
directly procured from a supplier or contractor, as the case may be, whenever there 
are less than three suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, willing to present 
quotations.   
 
The aggregate amount of contracts to be awarded pursuant to this Part B.4 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for a component of Part A of the Project or a Subproject, as the 
case may be, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works in respect of such component or Subproject 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B of this Section. 
 
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to all contracts not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D. 
Page  28
-27-
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by 
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based 
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$30,000 equivalent or above. 
Page  29
-28-
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Page  30
-29-
 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On 
Page  31
-30-
 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a)  
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b)  
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c)  
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d)  
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Page  32
-31-
 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
Page  33
-32-
 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b)  
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c)  
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d)  
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  34
-33-
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementing Agreements 
 
The Implementing Agreements shall provide that the Recipient, through 
CNPq, shall have the right to: 
 
(a)  
require the Implementing Entity to carry out its component of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices and the provisions of the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(b)  
require that: 
 
(i) 
the goods, works and consultants' services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
such goods, works and consultants' services shall be 
used exclusively for the purposes of such component 
of the Project; 
 
(c)  
require the Implementing Entity to maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the corresponding component 
of the Project; 
 
(d)  
inspect, by itself or allow representatives of the Bank to inspect, the 
goods, works, sites and facilities included in such component of the Project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(e)  
obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations 
and financial condition of the Implementing Entity and to the benefits derived from 
such component of the Project;  
 
(f)   
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing Entity to the use 
of the proceeds of the Subgrant upon failure by the Implementing Entity to perform 
any of its obligations under the Implementing Agreement; and 
 
Page  35
-34-
 
(g)  
require that the Implementing Entity refund to the Recipient any 
amount of the Subgrant which may have been used to pay any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of the Implementing Agreement. 
 
