             Document of
           The World Bank




                                         Report No: 36542

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (TF-28309 TF-28659)

                ON A

GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

      TO FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF

               BRAZIL

                FOR A

NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT - PROBIO




             June 21, 2006

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                       R$ 1.00 = US$ $ 1.05
                                      US$ 1.00 = R$ 0.95
                          Rate at Completion US$ 1.00 = R$ 0.46
                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDT              Base de Dados Tropical (Tropical Data Base)
BIN21            Biodiversity Information Network
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CBD              Convention on Biological Diversity
CNPq             Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (National
                 Council for Scientific and Technological Development)
CONABIO         Comisão Nacional daa Biodiversidade (National Comission for Biodiversity)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (Brazilian Agricultural Research
                 Agency)

FNMA             Fundo Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Environment Fund)
FTPT             Fundaçao Tropical de Pesquisa e Tecnologia André Tosello (André Tosello
                 Foundation for Tropical Research and Technology)
FUNBIO           Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade (Brazilian Biodiversity Fund)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GEF Trust Fund   Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
IABIN            Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
IADB             Inter-American Development Bank
IBAMA            Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis
                 (Brazilian Institute for the Envirornent and Renewable Natural Resources)
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
MMA              Ministério do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Hídricos e da Amazónia Legal
                 (Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon)
NBF              Not Bank Financed
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NEP              National Environmental Project (PNMA) (Loan No. 3173-BR)
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
PROBIO           Projeto de Conservaçao e Utilizaçao Sustentável da Diversidade Biológica
                 Brasileira (National Biodiversity Project)
PRONABIO         Programa Nacional da Diversidade Biológica (National Program for Biological
                 Diversity)
QAG              Quality Assessment Group
RPPN             Reserva Particular do Patrimonio Natural (Private Nature Reserve Program)
UC              Unidade de Conservação (Conservation Unit)

UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme

                         Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                       Country Director    John Briscoe
                        Sector Manager     Abel Mejia
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Adriana Moreira

                                           BRAZIL
                       National Biodiversity Project - PROBIO (GEF)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P006210                                                  Project Name: National Biodiversity Project - PROBIO
                                                                     (GEF)
Team Leader: Adriana Moreira                                         TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: National Biodiversity Project - PROBIO (GEF)             L/C/TF Number: TF-28309; TF-28659
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (81%); Central government administration
                            (19%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/15/1991                                     Effective: 12/05/1996                12/05/1996
     Appraisal: 03/20/1995                                         MTR: 12/08/1999                  12/08/1999
      Approval: 04/16/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL/IBAMA; PRIVATE & PUBLIC ENTITIES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Gobind Nankani
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Adriana Moreira                                Claudia Sobrevila
ICR Primary Author:             Adriana Moreira; Christine Drew
                                Dragisic; Luis Augusto Ducassi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The primary objective of the proposed project was to assist the Government of Brazil to launch a program
for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. The project was expected to lead to: a) prioritizing
of actions; b) facilitation of partnerships between the public and the private sectors; and c) to better
disseminate biodiversity information and knowledge to agriculture, fishing and forestry sectors.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was comprised of the following three components:

Component 1: Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination (19% of total project costs). This
component aimed at promoting assessments at the biome level (the Cerrado Savannas and Pantanal
Wetlands, Atlantic Tropical Forest and Southern Grasslands, Coastal and Marine ecosystems, the Caatinga
Dryland, and the Amazon Tropical Forests), creating a biodiversity information network, and dissemination
of knowledge.

Biome-Level Assessments were achieved through workshops that brought together experts from various
scientific areas. They served to gather all available information on biodiversity and conservation status, to
critically analyze the information and to identify and prioritize options for conservation and sustainable use
of biodiversity. Based on previous lessons learned, maps with biodiversity data were prepared before the
actual workshop, conservation priorities were ranked, and the analysis went beyond species distribution to
review ecosystems and habitat protection, economic trends, and public policies. For each major biome,
priorities were identified and strategies for conservation and resource use developed. NGOs, academic
institutions, public entities, and consortia of the above submitted proposals to organize the biome-level
assessments and were selected according to established criteria. Each workshop established the parameters
for biodiversity monitoring and identified institutions to carry out such monitoring and disseminate the
results.

Terms of reference to select the organizers for each biome-level assessment were approved by the Bank and
incorporated into the Operational Manual. The activities were divided into three stages: (1) preparation of
information base for workshop; (2) workshop event, integration of results, definition of priorities; (3)
establishment of a permanent working group in charge of follow-up activities including the periodic review
of priorities, development of a priority action plan, and the definition of monitoring and consultation
programs. The assessments were held on a staggered basis so that all of them would be completed during
the first two years of the project. Workshop results were disseminated in the form of maps and books and
through electronic and other media. Participants in each biome-level assessment designated a small number
of participants to serve as a liaison and consultative group between the Government and the different
constituencies represented to ensure that the recommendations of the assessments were carried out. The
results and recommendations of each workshop contributed to the National Strategy for Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Use promoted by PRONABIO. They were also used in the preparation of the
calls for proposals for new sub-projects.




                                                     - 2 -

A Biodiversity Information Network - Brazil was established for the purpose of storing, updating, and
linking information generated in the assessments, and for providing an efficient means of communication
about biodiversity both nationally and internationally. It was designed to build on existing data in the
Tropical Data Base (BDT) and connect BDT and other data bases, including IBAMA-NET, the National
Environmental Electronic Network financed by the NEP loan from the Bank, and the National Research
Network (RNP). The Biodiversity Information Network - Brazil was intended to be accessible to
government, scientific, conservation, and private-sector actors. The Andre Tosello Foundation for Tropical
Research and Technology (FTPT) coordinated the implementation of this component. (See section 4 for more
information on this point.) FTPT was chosen because of its established leadership in developing Brazil's
biodiversity information systems and facilitating its access to such systems worldwide. This private
non-profit foundation had played an important role in several international forums sponsored by the United
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Brazilian Government on establishment of the
international Biodiversity Information Network (BIN21), which was designed to link information relevant
to biodiversity and make it widely available by electronic and other means, in support of the Convention on
Biological Diversity and Agenda 21. BIN21, was already functioning prior to the project, had its secretariat
at FTPT. The Tropical Data Base node (Brazil) was maintained by FTPT. At project start there were 14
international nodes in the BIN21 network.

Additional Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination Activities identified by PRONABIO and agreed
with the Bank were eligible to be financed to support and update the Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plans, and add new subscribers to the Information Network.

Component 2: Model Biodiversity Sub-Projects (72% of total project costs). This component financed
local pilot activities that would: (1) contribute significantly to conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity in a specific region or biome; (2) explore innovative forms of biodiversity protection and
management; (3) test a variety of arrangements involving public-sector and non-profit private-sector actors,
and a range of conservation goals.

First-Round Model Sub-Projects (18% of total project costs). In 1992, MMA requested proposals from a
variety of public, academic, and non-profit conservation organizations in order to identify a pipeline of
eligible sub-projects that would be ready to begin implementation upon grant effectiveness. Sub-projects
for the first round of funding were chosen on the basis of the degree to which they address high
conservation priorities, and the potential for success in achieving stated sub-project goals. Proposed
sub-projects were also expected to incorporate the following basic elements into their design: (1)
multi-institutional involvement with partners representing government, non-government, and academic
research institutions; (2) participation of institutions or collaborating groups with technical, financial, or
operational capabilities relevant to biodiversity conservation, whose involvement would represent a
broadening of the community of stakeholders in biodiversity conservation; and (3) involvement of
organizations with a clear institutional mandate and well-established performance record, which through
collaboration with other institutional actors could enhance the relevance of their work to biodiversity
conservation. Furthermore, the following criteria were used to prioritize proposals and to make a final
selection:

* Potential for replication of project methods and approaches;
* Demonstration value of new techniques and approaches and potential sustainability of results;
* Cost effectiveness and incrementality of project-financed activities and evidence of institutional
commitments reflected by counterpart funds, facilities, or in-kind services contributed by the implementers.

MMA evaluated sub-project proposals against these basic elements and criteria, and selected five


                                                      - 3 -

sub-projects for first-round funding in 1993. One sub-project was national in scope and four were of local
or regional interest:

a. National sub-project: Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources. This sub-project conserved plant genetic
resources by developing and implementing a program for the sustainable management of selected wild plant
species with high conservation priority value and potential for sustainable economic use.

b. Local sub-projects. (i) Conservation and Restoration of Biodiversity in Gallery Forests of the Cerrado.
This sub-project assisted in the conservation and restoration of riparian forests threatened by agricultural
expansion in the Federal District and adjacent regions of Minas Gerais and Goiás states; (ii) Management
of Conservation Units in the Guaragueçaba Region. This sub-project contributed to the conservation of the
largest of the Atlantic Forest remnants by expanding conservation units in a unique 310,000-hectare coastal
area in eastern Paraná state; (iii) Conservation and Restoration of Atlantic Forest in Tablelands of
Linhares. This sub-project developed a technical and scientific model for biodiversity conservation in
important remnants of Atlantic Forest in northern Espirito Santo state; (iv) Restoration and Management of
the Natural Ecosystems of Brejos de Altitude. This sub-project contributed to the conservation of the
threatened forest ecosystems of the Eastern Escarpment (Borborema) in Pernambuco and Paraiba states.

Second-Round Model Sub-Projects (54% of total project costs). The nature of second-round model
sub-projects initially included the following four broad areas: (i) Biodiversity conservation: activities that
support long-term biodiversity conservation initiatives; (ii) Sustainable use of Biodiversity: activities that
build synergies and strengthen inter-relationship between biodiversity conservation and sustainable use and
development practices in main productive sectors of the economy; (iii) Policy Analysis: analytical studies
on policies and incentives to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable use; and (iv) Applied
research and technology development: research to support increased knowledge and technology
development in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. Requests for second round proposals were
prepared for additional model sub-projects that would involve regions, problems, and organizations not
included in the first round. These requests were based on national priorities established by the Government
and on the priorities set by the biome-level assessments. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that the
request for proposals (editais) would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval before being
submitted to the Coordinating Commission and issued. In order to increase the cost-effectiveness of project
activities and to enhance coordination between Projects I and II, the calls were to be issued through
FUNBIO, the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund established to carry out Project II. FUNBIO would conduct a
technical evaluation of the proposals received against criteria agreed with MMA/PRONABIO. Guidelines
for selection were designed to ensure, among other things, that sub-projects would (i) follow good
environmental practices, (ii) properly address any sensitive social issues, and (iii) mobilize matching
funding from grant recipients. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the technical reviewers'
recommendation on the eligibility of sub-projects and the selection of the corresponding implementing entity
would be sent to the Bank for review and approval before it was approved by the Coordinating
Commission. Recommendations on sub-project selection were be reviewed by FUNBIO and subsequently
transmitted to the National Biodiversity Program's (PRONABIO) Coordinating Commission for review
and approval. (For information on FUNBIO and PRONABIO's eventual roles, see section 4.) Eligible
entities included public institutions, research institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and consortia of the
above. Sub-project proposals were expected to average US$500,000 for three years, with maximum
funding of US$700,000. The Operational Manual set down procedures for processing and approving
proposals, evaluation reviews, the Technical Secretariat, the Administrative Agent, and for implementing,
supervising, monitoring, and evaluating sub-projects. At negotiations, agreement was reached that project
implementation would be ruled by the Operational Manual. Prior to effectiveness, the final version of the
Operational Manual was approved by the Bank.


                                                     - 4 -

Component 3: Project Administration (9% of total project costs). The objective of this component was
to support the administration and coordination of the project including: support to PRONABIO's
Coordinating Commission; supervision of biome-level assessments and the Biodiversity information
Network; evaluation and integration of biome-level assessment and workshop results; provision of support
in the formulation of a draft Biodiversity Strategy; monitoring and supervision of sub-projects and
workshops; monitoring and supervision of financial execution by CNPq; and the dissemination of results
for the whole project.

3.4 Revised Components:

No substantive revisions were made to the project components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project's quality at entry is considered Satisfactory. Although no official evaluation of quality at entry
was done at the time of effectiveness, preparation documents and project design show a project that was
well conceived, consulted, and planned. The lack of substantial technical modifications during
implementation confirm this rating. The Quality Assessment Group (QAG) 2005 Quality of Supervision
Assessment also found quality at entry to be satisfactory. It noted "though the original concept was very
ambitious, the project was divided into two separate tasks before Board approval, which has made both
initiatives more manageable."

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall achievement of the project objective is Satisfactory. PROBIO closed on December 31, 2005,
and at that time had completely met (and in many cases surpassed) the development objective for the
project, as well as disbursed all grant funds. PROBIO is widely recognized as one of the most successful
environmental projects in Brazil. The project was fundamental in consolidating the government's
biodiversity strategy and reorganizing the related institutional structure. It was critical in promoting the
creation of the Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests and Directorate for Biodiversity, based initially on
the Project's Coordination Unit. These institutions are now responsible for the government's biodiversity
program and catalyzing the discussion of biodiversity issues within the government. PROBIO contributed
to the Biodiversity National Policy and National Biodiversity Strategy through political engagement,
institutional support, training and strengthening of the managerial and technical staff of the Ministry of the
Environment. For the first time, the National Forest Program is incorporating the concept of biodiversity
among its guidelines, and the PROBIO results are being used for the creation and establishment of national
forests areas. As a testament to the success of PROBIO in shaping the government's biodiversity program,
it will continue as a program within MMA after project close.

There were initial delays in project implementation which required two extensions. These were largely due
to a reorganization of MMA which complicated project administration, as well as cofinancing difficulties
due to IMF-imposed fiscal restraints, election-related spending freezes, and changing government
consultant regulations. The mid-term review addressed many of these issues through a restructuring of
expenditure categories and guidelines, and of the project technical team. Due to these modifications and
easing external constraints, PROBIO accelerated its rhythm after the mid-term review. By the project close
at the end of 2005, it had achieved all project objectives, and in many cases surpassed what was expected



                                                     - 5 -

at the project start. The fall 2004 QAG report found that supervision has been completely satisfactory.

Consistency with CAS Objectives. The implementation of PROBIO also successfully addressed many of
the issues noted in Brazil's successive Country Assistance Strategies (CASs). PROBIO responded directly
to priorities identified in the CAS at the time of the project's inception. The June 1995 CAS listed "the
management of the country's growth and development consistent with maintaining and improving protection
of the environment" as a challenge. It noted the need to support recent improvements in conservation while
balancing the environmental agenda with demands for improved standards of living, and of the "generally
weak federal, state and local environmental institutions and sparse scientific knowledge that can underpin a
strategy for sustainable development." PROBIO managed to strengthen the key government institutions
responsible for environmental issues, creating a viable enabling environment which is capable of addressing
the integration of environmental concerns and development.

The project also addressed many of the issues included in the 2003-2007 CAS, which stressed the necessity
for "a more sustainable Brazil." PROBIO addressed and made significant progress on the protection of
forests and biodiversity, the management of natural resources in order to avoid Amazonian deforestation,
and the creation of better policies and stronger institutions. The project contributed to the CAS strategic
goal 2.2 on sustainable management of land, forests and biodiversity, as well as Strategic Goal 4.2 on more
effective public sector management, by assisting the Government in producing the National Biodiversity
Law, and establish the Priority Areas adopted by IBAMA and the National Petroleum Agency (ANP), and
creating the Directorate of Biodiversity and Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests. The very fact that the
issues are framed so clearly within the CAS, and within the national strategy dialog, shows the impact
PROBIO had within Brazil.

Priority Setting for Biodiversity Conservation: The 900 Priority Areas for Biodiversity Conservation in
Brazilian biomes, defined under the project through a multidisciplinary, participative process, have been
widely adopted throughout the country and in a wide variety of sectors (federal agencies, NGOs, academic
institutions and the private sector). IBAMA has incorporated the Priority Areas for Biodiversity
Conservation defined by PROBIO as the basis for creation of new protected areas throughout the country.
The government has committed to updating the areas every 10 years. The National Petroleum Agency
officially adopted the same Priority Areas in its guidelines for licensing oil exploration for the entire
country, and two calls for proposals have already been issued under these guidelines. The National Forestry
Agency has also adopted these priority areas in their planning processes. PROBIO bolstered the scientific
research community in Brazil, playing a role that has been recognized as critical in stimulating research and
dissemination of information on Brazilian biodiversity and conservation strategies. Much of this research
focused on issues with important impacts on socioeconomic development, including wild relatives of
cultivated crops, sustainable harvesting of key products, and medicinal plants.

In setting priorities, PROBIO established a unique process which involved bringing together a diverse
group of actors with implications for biodiversity conservation and, backed by robust scientific data and
the experts' particular knowledge, building consensus on the priority areas for conservation. The results of
these exercises enjoyed immediate and wide acceptance. Similar consensus-building strategies were used by
many subprojects at a local level, for example to bring together communities, researchers, and conservation
experts to discuss the creation of new protected areas. Today the innovative PROBIO process is widely
recognized and is now being replicated throughout Brazil and the world.

Partnerships: PROBIO financed 144 subprojects that involved 284 institutions, creating an extensive
network of multisectoral partnerships between academic and private institutions, NGOs, and government.
Many of the partnerships established under the subproject program have endured and are generating


                                                     - 6 -

synergies. This network has been fundamental in raising the profile of biodiversity within Brazil,
contributing directly to the public policy debate, and stimulating the adoption of biodiversity considerations
in areas as disparate as oil, timber, private sector development, and protected areas.

In an independent evaluation of subprojects conducted after project close, a full 87% of those interviewed
found that the relationships built through subproject execution had been very satisfactory or satisfactory.
This was especially true where the subproject had been executed by an NGO, or where communities or
municipalities were involved. The same review found that one of the strong points of the program was that
it brought together a diverse range of actors, especially local actors, and increased linkages among the
primary partners involved in subproject execution. Also highlighted was the project's success in making
smaller universities part of strategic national discussions, and in creating linkages between these academic
institutions and NGOs. It noted that the project helped build and strengthen a network of institutions
organized around working groups, and that this network contributed directly to public policies in the field.
Perhaps the partnerships incubated under PROBIO are most obvious in the generation of new projects built
on PROBIO lessons and experiences, many of which involve people and institutions which worked on
PROBIO, and all of which have a high focus on partnerships between the different sectors.

Dissemination of Knowledge and Capacity Building. One of PROBIO's most important contribution was
the extensive dissemination of biodiversity information generated through its activities. The project
financed the publication of 37 books, 32 book chapters, and dozens of technical articles, as well as
workshops, videos, maps, school materials, brochures, and websites. 29 PhD theses were produced.
Information was disseminated to policy makers, technical specialists, academics, students, and a wide range
of interested stakeholders. Many books examined cross-cutting issues in formats relevant to policy makers.
For example, the book "Fragmentation of Ecosystems" moved beyond a purely scientific discussion of this
phenomenon to examine how the government's energy policy has contributed to the fragmentation of
ecosystems through dam construction. The materials financed by PROBIO were widely distributed, and are
widely cited by researchers and policymakers within and outside of Brazil. Copies of project-financed
books were sent to most Brazilian universities, and books published by the Ministry with PROBIO
information were distributed to public libraries as well.

PROBIO's role in building links building links between the scientific community and policymakers, and in
disseminating policy-relevant information to governmental decision-makers, was one of the project's most
important achievements, and led to several important successes in mainstreaming biodiversity into other
sectors. Many of PROBIO's products became important parts of policy dialogs, both in Congress and in
other governmental institutions. In just two examples, the book "Ecosystem Fragmentation: Causes, effects
on Biodiversity, and Public Policy Recommendations" was a key input for discussions on forestry policy
and reserve creation, and the biome-level ecosystem analyses were used as background for many
discussions for biome strategy, including legislation for the Atlantic Forest.

Throughout Brazil, the project is recognized as having contributed greatly to the development of technical
and operational capacity within the biodiversity sector. Today it is extremely common to find high-level
positions in NGOs and foundations filled by professionals who worked on PROBIO subprojects; many of
the technical staff of these institutions received their practical training through PROBIO-funded work. The
independent evaluation of subprojects found that 87% of institutions surveyed felt that PROBIO had a high
or substantial influence on the training and capacity of their technical and administrative staff. The same
study noted that PROBIO offered an opportunity for many of the subproject executing institutions to
increase their status on the national and international biodiversity scene, and in many cases to increase the
scope and area of their work. It cited the success of the project in expanding the portfolio of many of the
institutions involved in the project, increasing their technical capacity and their experience to interact with,


                                                      - 7 -

and execute large projects financed by international donors.

Legislative Impact. The project has also been instrumental in structuring the national legal framework for
biodiversity. The technical knowledge generated by PROBIO has served as the basis for the latest
environmental legislation related to biodiversity conservation and use in Brazil, contributing to some
landmark legislation such as the Protected Areas System Law (2000), the environmental crimes laws (1998
and 1999) and framework legislation on access to genetic resources and biotechnology. PROBIO was also
influential in establishing the National Biodiversity Commission (CONABIO); designed first as a
short-term coordinating committee for the national biodiversity policy, after PROBIO, CONABIO mandate
has been extended to become the implementing agency of Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and
the national policy.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination: Overall component results are rated Highly
Satisfactory.

Biome-Level Assessments: This subcomponent has been rated Highly Satisfactory.

All five workshops (Cerrado/Pantanal, Atlantic Forest/Southern Grasslands, Coastal/Marine, Caatinga
Dryland and Amazon Forest) were completed and the results consolidated. The final products of each
assessment were published in Portuguese, and additionally an English version of the book "Biodiversity of
the Amazon" was completed under this component.

While the completion of these workshops and dissemination of the results would have complied with the
project objective, the project went much farther, and had a much greater impact on public policy than was
foreseen at the beginning of the project. Based on these assessments, PROBIO established the 900 Priority
Areas for Biodiversity Conservation of the key Brazilian biomes. The government of Brazil has assumed
the responsibility of updating this information every 10 years in order to continue to inform conservation
activities and priorities within the country. Based on PROBIO`s approach, some governmental agencies
have adopted the biome as their planning unit (see above for additional details), and several agencies are
using the maps for their development planning. Several subsequent projects, including Amazon Region
Protected Areas and the proposed Caatinga and Cerrado biodiversity concepts, are based on the results of
these biome-level priority-setting exercises as well. Since the completion of the PROBIO workshops, 127
new protected areas totaling nearly 29 million hectares (to date) have been established. All drew from the
900 Priority Areas for Biodiversity Conservation established under this project. Please see Annex 8 for a
complete list.

A Biodiversity Information Network ­ Brazil: This subcomponent has been rated Moderately Satisfactory
.

The Biodiversity Information Network established under PROBIO was one of the first information
networks in the world. Originally, the project envisaged one institution (the Andre Tosello Foundation) as
entirely responsible for the management of the Network. This proved to be a suboptimal arrangement, as
information was not shared willingly with all relevant actors, as had been planned. The design of the
Network was then modified to give much greater control to the Ministry of the Environment, where it
became much more successful in collecting and sharing biodiversity information. The database of Andre
Tosello    Foundation     is   now    under    MMA      control   and    is   being  made      available (
http://www.mma.gov.br/index.php?ido=conteudo.monta&idEstrutura=72 ). Despite the setbacks,


                                                    - 8 -

the independent evaluation of subprojects noted that one of the strong points of the project was the creation
of conditions for the systematization of biodiversity information, allowing it to be organized in a manner
which would contribute to environmental planning. The experience under PROBIO, and the important
lesson that responsibility for networks should not lie entirely with one institution, have formed the basis for
newer biodiversity information initiatives such as the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
(IABIN) and the proposed Brazilian Virtual Biodiversity Institute.

PROBIO also produced a number of cutting edge publications and other materials which now serve as
basic reference and informational material for biodiversity within and outside Brazil. PROBIO has
supported 149 data bases (132 in network), 13 homepages and 7 CD-ROMs. MMA assumed responsibility
for assuring the public availability of information that was compatible with their system through their own
network. The continuity of this service is assured by an action included in the Pluri-annual Plan
2004-2007. Despite these achievements in producing databases and electronic information dissemination
devices, as well as the partnerships formed under other parts of the project, a cohesive biodiversity
information network did not emerge from project activities. Newer projects are attempting to build upon the
base established by PROBIO to create a functioning network.

Additional Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination Activities: This subcomponent has been rated
Highly Satisfactory.

PROBIO launched an unprecedented connection among scientists, academics, and policymakers. The
workshops and training sessions sponsored by PROBIO were cross-disciplinary, and served as a fora
where social and natural scientists worked together with representatives of NGOs, governmental
institutions, and the private sector. This fomented a new and innovative approach to a sector that had
normally been narrowly-focused and inward looking, and it produced notable and immediate successes.

Among PROBIO's most important contributions has been the extensive dissemination of biodiversity
information generated through its activities, in the form of workshops, books, articles, theses, videos, maps,
school materials, and brochures. In accordance with the World Bank's recommendations and with
PROBIO's objectives, the outcomes of sub projects and activities supported by PROBIO were disseminated
as widely as possible, so that biodiversity was incorporated and discussed not only by the scientific
community but also by broader Brazilian population. PROBIO's target audience ranged from the scientific
community to primary school students. The project financed 37 books, 32 book chapters, 242 technical
articles, and, innumerable copies of other materials. Materials have been widely distributed, with copies of
project-financed books sent to most Brazilian universities, and books published by the MMA with
PROBIO information distributed to public libraries. Web based books and reports are available at
www.mma.gov.br under PROBIO. Materials can now be found in most relevant NGOs, government
institutions, foundations, and academic institutes, and in the communities involved with subprojects, and
are widely cited by other researchers and policymakers. The independent evaluation of selected subprojects
found some of the most important results of the project were the elaboration of high quality publications
available to the public, opportunities to participate in scientific fora, and environmental awareness
initiatives directed at communities, small producers, and other local actors. However, some subproject
executors wonder if this dissemination will continue now that the project has closed.

The strategic decision to produce material and information that was relevant to policymakers, by couching
the debate in a language understood by politicians, leveraged biodiversity conservation to the level of
national policy because the information was properly appropriated by politicians and the media. Books
produced by the project were presented and debated in Congress, and project representatives addressed



                                                      - 9 -

national and South American legislators. This information dissemination strategy proved extremely
effective, and was in large part responsible for the key role PROBIO played in drafting national
biodiversity legislation, and in the adoption of the 900 Priority Areas for Biodiversity Conservation
throughout all tiers of Brazilian government.

Component 2. Model Biodiversity Sub-Projects: This component has been rated Satisfactory.

Several changes to the subproject component were made early in the project in order to better adjust the
subprojects to the perceived level of demand and capacity of potential implementing institutions, and to
have a broader impact on the country. While the original component description proposed a relatively small
number of subprojects averaging $500,000 each, the number of subprojects was greatly increased and the
average size decreased, to slightly over $300,000 for the first five subprojects and approximately $110,000
each for the rest. The expected role of FUNBIO and PRONABIO was changed, too, to reflect the final
design and capacity of these institutions. FUNBIO did not develop the structure to issue calls for proposals;
rather these were issued by the PROBIO team in MMA, at times jointly with the National Environment
Fund (FMNA), also within MMA. PRONABIO approved the criteria for subproject selection, including
eligible themes, and the calls for proposals emitted, but not the individual subprojects themselves.

These changes ultimately resulted in a successful subproject program. PROBIO financed 144 subprojects
in the following categories: biome evaluations, traditional knowledge, effects of global climate change on
biodiversity, ecological corridors, wild relatives of cultivated crops, environmental education, identification
of conservation institutions in the Center-West, biodiversity information network strategy, fragmentation of
ecosystems, support for the creation of protected areas, information on and updating lists of endangered
species, monitoring of coral reefs, pollinators, plans for sustainable development of buffer zones
surrounding strict protection areas, management of endangered species, information on and management of
invasive species, biological inventories in priority areas, economic potential of plants, and mapping
fragments of Brazilian biomes. (Two additional proposed subprojects were cancelled, one for delays in
implementation and one for problems in obtaining the necessary licenses.)

These subprojects involved 284 institutions, creating an extensive network of partnerships between
academic and private institutions, NGOs, and government bodies. Approximately half of the subprojects
were executed by foundations. Another quarter were executed by NGOs, while 15% were administered by
government agencies and 10% by academic institutions. An independent review conducted after the close of
the project found that the subprojects were key in helping PROBIO build partnerships, and that this was
especially successful in subprojects executed by NGOs or that directly involved municipalities or
communities. However for a few subprojects, relationships with partners, and especially IBAMA, are
reported to have posed challenges for technical work. In a full 87% of subprojects studied, the partnerships
established were considered very satisfactory or satisfactory.

The large number of subprojects supported and the diversity of their profiles makes a complete list of
subproject results nearly impossible. However, certain results of the subproject program do stand out as
being of particular importance. Among the areas where PROBIO subprojects have had a major impact are:
·        Endangered species: PROBIO supported a thorough review of the endangered species list; the
periodic review of this list has now been assumed at the ministerial (MMA) level; a thematic chamber has
been created under CONABIO; a partnership between PROBIO and The National Environmental Fund
(FNMA) supported management plans for 62 threatened species.
·        Invasive species: PROBIO supported a national inventory of exotic invasive species; a thematic
chamber is being created under CONABIO; a partnership between PROBIO and FNMA supported plans



                                                     - 10 -

for the management of 9 sub-projects.
·        Habitat fragmentation: PROBIO's support is used as a basis for the establishment of ecological
corridors.
·        Pollinators: PROBIO's support is used as a basis to treat pollination as an ecosystem service.
·        Buffer zones of protected areas: PROBIO's support changed the manner in which Brazil deals with
buffer zones, so that they now give priority to socio-economic benefits for local populations that live in the
areas surrounding protected areas.
·        Species surveys and inventories: PROBIO's support was influential on the adoption of rapid
assessments of biodiversity by MMA (this methodology was used by NGOs only before the project).
·        Local policies: In several cases, including subprojects in Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande do Sul
states, subproject results were incorporated successfully into municipal public policy supporting
conservation objectives.

Many of the subprojects funded by PROBIO were recognized as contributing critical information to the
understanding and management of biodiversity; at least 7 were awarded prizes. In a November 2004
congress, the subproject directors publicly recognized the importance PROBIO has had for their work and
for biodiversity in Brazil, noting that without the support of the project many of the advances made in the
last 10 years would have been impossible. The independent review conducted after project close found that
more than 90% of subprojects sampled were considered to have achieved very satisfactory or satisfactory
results in achieving their initial objectives, and 100% were judged to have very satisfactory or satisfactory
execution. Of course, not all subprojects had the same objectives, nor did all achieve the same results. The
same study found that 53% of the sample subprojects had high or substantial impacts on public policy,
while an additional 43% had a moderate impact. Two-thirds of the subprojects sampled contributed to the
formation of masters and doctoral students, generating new capacity for the biodiversity sector in Brazil. In
terms of the direct impact on biodiversity, the evaluation of project impact was markedly split, with 40%
assessing a positive direct impact on the reduction of biodiversity loss through the subproject and 33%
seeing little direct impact. Two-thirds of those interviewed believed the subprojects had had a high or
substantial impact on the region where they were implemented; the remaining third felt the impact to be
moderate. However, 53% also felt that the direct impact on communities related to the subprojects was
moderate or low, a sign perhaps of the non-applied nature of many of the subprojects. Knowledge,
technologies, and results generated by the subprojects were collected into books, videos, and other forms of
dissemination and widely shared. All subprojects sampled agreed that PROBIO created the appropriate
conditions to disseminate new technologies and knowledge produced, and 80% the project facilitated the
dissemination of subproject results. Perhaps in the most telling results, 83% of responses to questions about
the achievement of subproject objectives found that the subprojects had been very satisfactory or
satisfactory in meeting their objectives, and 93% of those surveyed felt the perspective of continuing the
work begun under PROBIO was high or substantial.

In recognition of the importance of completing the work done under these subprojects, 24 will continue with
government funding after project close.



Component 3. Project Administration: The implementation of this component has been rated
Satisfactory.

Initially the project administration component was less than satisfactory, showing problems in
disbursements, inefficiency in administrative procedures, and a lack of effective technical monitoring and
evaluation. However, procedural and financing modifications were agreed upon at the Mid-Term Review



                                                     - 11 -

and a new project administration team was installed soon after. Project administration quickly improved, as
the technical achievements and full disbursement of grant funds show.

A large part of the administrative responsibility of the project involved training subproject executors and
other entities responsible for the implementation of project activities. All subproject executors, including
both the technical coordinator and financial administrator, received training in subproject administration
before beginning work. This training was repeated numerous times during the life of the project upon
request of executors who had experienced changes in staffing, both before and after the convention with
CNPq was signed. These trainings were key in increasing the operational capacity of subproject executors
and the effectiveness of the subprojects themselves, as well as in allowing project modifications to be
quickly assumed and employed.

Because of the marked improvement in project administration in the second half of the project, as well as
the effective capacity-building program maintained, overall project administration has been rated
Satisfactory.



Cross-cutting results

Many of PROBIO's greatest achievements are not limited to each component. PROBIO's innovations were
in many cases cross-cutting, and its impacts have been broad. PROBIO was instrumental in developing a
number of operational and administrative mechanisms which have been adopted not only by Bank or
biodiversity projects, but across all sectors in Brazil. For example, PROBIO was the one of the first
projects to use a call for proposals for subprojects and consultancies. This mechanism, which is now
widely used, had never been tested before. The project also pioneered innovative strategies for leveraging
funds which have influenced how development projects have operated over the last decade. These
strategies, developed largely in response to the fiscal constraints which limited project operations for most
of the implementation period, allow the project to sidestep financing constraints and continue to achieve
project objectives by accessing alternate sources of cofinancing. The idea of a joint call for proposals, for
example, arose after opportunities for synergies with the IADB's FNMA projects were identified. This
allowed PROBIO to leverage additional funds for its model subprojects, multiplying their scope and impact
and allowing their continuation despite the difficult fiscal situation. This strategy has now been replicated
numerous times.

As noted earlier, the project also generated information, knowledge, and techniques, which are being used
in a number of sectors from oil exploration to forestry. In just one example, several PROBIO subprojects
were among the first to incorporate macroeconomic data in their evaluation of pressures and risks for
ecosystems; this added substantial value to the dialog on cause and effect and advanced the opportunities
for cross-sectoral dialog on issues critical to biodiversity conservation. This same knowledge and
information has also become a worldwide model, being presented at numerous international events
sponsored by the Convention on Biodiversity and other international organizations, and replicated by
various countries around the world.

Many of the NGOs and academic centers which are now considered leaders in the biodiversity field in the
country were boosted through PROBIO-funded studies and subprojects, and most leading biodiversity
experts in the country have worked on at least one PROBIO initiative. The project opened a space for
funding scientific conservation projects outside academia, something which had scarcely existed previously.
It is difficult to overstate the importance this large and long-lived project has had for biodiversity in Brazil.




                                                       - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact is considered to be High.

PROBIO is widely recognized as one of the most successful environmental projects in Brazil. To a large
degree, it was responsible for structuring the biodiversity sector in Brazil. The project's project
coordination unit (PCU) was transformed into the Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests and the
Directorate for Biodiversity within the Ministry of the Environment. Today, these two bodies are
responsible for nearly all biodiversity-related issues within the government. Having a core team responsible
specifically for biodiversity has proven extremely important in promoting biodiversity activities, and
increasing the sector's visibility in the country. PROBIO contributed to the legal framework for the
creation of the National Biodiversity Policy and National Biodiversity Strategy, the two main instruments
for promoting biodiversity conservation in Brazil. The project has also been instrumental in structuring the
biodiversity legal framework, including the Protected Areas System Law (2000), the environmental crimes
law (1998 and 1999) and framework legislation on access to genetic resources and biotechnology.

Furthermore, PROBIO was successful in beginning the process of mainstreaming biodiversity into other
governmental sectors, including forestry and petroleum. As a testament to the success of PROBIO in
shaping the government's biodiversity program, PROBIO will continue as a governmental program within
the Ministry of the Environment after the close of the project, guaranteeing sustainability of the original
grant objectives and actions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

PROBIO was approved in 1996 but during the 10-year implementation period, Brazil experienced shifts in
monetary policy, devaluations, fiscal crises, evolving environmental and social priorities, and several
changes in administrations, with their resulting staff changes at all levels of government. In all cases the
project implementation strategy had to be adapted to fit the evolving circumstances in which it was being
implemented.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Several factors constrained the early implementation of the project. Initially the project faced budget
constraints due to strict fiscal restrictions imposed under IMF agreement. Although this operation was
financed by a GEF grant, the grant proceeds were incorporated into the federal budget and thus subject to
the aggregate triggering conditions under which spending was controlled. Related to this, the project
encountered funding disruptions related to spending freezes associated with federal elections during election
years. A change in government regulations concerning the conditions governing consultant contracts
affected the project unit, with the possibility of losing key staff who had been employed under a technical
assistance contract executed by UNDP. An amendment to the grant agreement made the use of funds more



                                                     - 13 -

flexible, and arrangements were made to incorporate UNDP-employed staff into the Ministry team. These
challenges were partially responsible for some of the early delays in project implementation. Finally, the
continued reliance on technical and administrative staff with short-term contracts, rather than on long-term
civil servants, caused a continual overturn in project staff, resulting in constant training of new staff and
potentially less effective implementation than might have been possible with a consistent team. In the last
years of the project this situation improved slightly with several nation-wide civil service exams, but the
low salaries offered made it difficult for experiences staff to accept equivalent civil service positions, so
turnover remained substantial.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

During the early phase of implementation, MMA experienced changes in internal organization. While these
changes (including the establishment of the Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests and the Directorate of
Forests) eventually aided project and the biodiversity sector, the climate of instability slowed project
implementation. Administrative and bureaucratic procedures used by the MMA PROBIO team were also
found to be unnecessarily cumbersome and inefficient. These procedures were modified after the Mid-Term
Review, and implementation improved.

Two extensions were sought for the project; the first, after the 1999 Mid-Term Review, extended the
closing date by two years to December 31, 2003. A second extension established a new closing date of
December 31, 2005. In total, these extensions increased the life of the project by four years; while unusual,
these years were the period in which the project achieved its greatest results, in large part due to the
changes made after the mid-term review, as well as to the consolidation of project teams and maturity of
procedures and operations.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The sustainability of project outcomes and activities has been rated as Highly Likely. The cost and
financing estimates forecast during project preparation were fairly accurate, though administrative costs
were eventually nearly twice what had been forecast (largely due to the extension of the implementation
period). However, national level economic difficulties, financing constraints, and stringent cofinancing
requirements which impeded disbursements severely challenged early project implementation. After a
restructuring of procedures, and especially disbursement requirements, at mid-term, these challenges were
largely resolved. The most important change was removing the direct one to 1 cofinancing requirement for
each project activity, which made implementation delays due to national budget complications less likely.
At project closing, 100% of funds were disbursed. The delays did cause the project to modify certain
foreseen activities, for example one subproject has to be canceled because of the shorter period available
for execution.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

At the close of project operations in December 2005, the Brazilian government agreed to incorporate
PROBIO as a program within MMA. This reflects Brazilian government commitment to further advance
biodiversity conservation in the country. The government has also agreed to update the list of 900 priority
areas first established under PROBIO every 10 years in order to assure its continuing relevance to policy
and planning. Furthermore, the government funded, with national financing, the last several months of
implementation of the few subprojects that had not been finalized by project close.

It should be noted that, while the sustainability of project achievements and outcomes at the national level


                                                     - 14 -

is unquestionable, on the local level the results are more mixed. The independent evaluation of subprojects
conducted after project close found that 93% of those surveyed felt the perspective of continuing the work
begun under PROBIO was high or substantial. However, 53% also felt that the direct impact on
communities related to the subprojects was moderate or low, a sign perhaps of the non-applied nature of
many of the subprojects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As was noted above, MMA has absorbed PROBIO as a fully-integrated program with complete
government funding, thus guaranteeing the continuity and sustainability of project activities and
achievements.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance during preparation was found to be entirely Satisfactory. The decision to split the
PROBIO and FUNBIO projects in the advanced stages of preparation, which was made in coordination
with the national government, was highly unusual. However, it resulted in two more tightly-focused, and
ultimately successful, projects. The Bank team had a close working relationship with their national
counterparts, participated fully in the technical and operational design of the project, and successfully
completed all preparation steps necessary in the standard time frame and budget.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision during implementation was found to be Satisfactory, both by the reviewing team and by
a 2005 Quality Assessment Group (QAG) Quality of Supervision Review. Among the key activities of the
Bank team beyond regular supervision, the team was proactive in organizing a grant amendment which
extended the life project in such a way that the closing date was less vulnerable to disruptions associated
with federal elections and potential changes in government and rearranged disbursement categories in order
to provide greater spending flexibility for the project and partially mitigate the impact of the continuing
government budget execution difficulties. The Bank also worked with the Borrower to resolve a potential
crisis for project staff whose contracts would no longer be eligible for renewal under the UNDP technical
assistance agreement, to prepare these staff for a competitive civil service examination, which succeeded in
converting most the affected personnel to permanent staff of the environmental secretariat (based upon
performance). The Bank team was found to have been diligent in supervising environmental management
requirements, paying many visits to the field, and holding frequent discussions with government
counterparts. The QAG review found that sound advice and solutions with well-detailed action plans, were
consistently provided by the Bank team. Because of the sound technical, fiduciary and administrative
supervision, and assistance in developing effective, timely solutions to emerging problems, Bank
supervision during implementation has been rated as Satisfactory.

Despite this positive evaluation, some weaknesses in Bank performance during implementation have been
noted. Most are structural. In an independent review of subprojects completed after project close, some
implementing institutions surveyed complained about the rigidity of Bank procurement and other rules,
which they felt caused delays in subproject execution and, at times, presented unnecessary barriers. (Two
examples given were the acquisition of necessary chemicals and the requirement of marking vehicles with
the project name, even in conflictive zones.) There was also notable frustration with the slow bureaucracy
of the Bank, which at times was felt to have hindered subproject execution. These issues are largely beyond



                                                     - 15 -

the control of the Bank's project team, but should be noted for their impact on project execution.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is considered Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The borrower's performance during supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The government participated fully
in the design and preparation of the project, contributing staff time and resources during the preparation
phase. Government teams also participated actively in a series of preparation and appraisal missions. An
independent review of subproject implementing agencies found that the preparation of the project was rated
highly by 76% of those surveyed. The decision to separate the PROBIO and FUNBIO projects was made
in the final stages of preparation, in order to leverage additional private sector funding for biodiversity,
which would have been impossible at the time under a joint public-private project. This decision was
ultimately validated by two successfully-executed projects. While there were initial challenges with the
pre-definition of the first subprojects, the government team immediately incorporated the lessons learned to
ensure that subproject selection methods were transparent and followed national priorities, and to arrange
workshops to explain these procedures. The quality of the project design is largely a result of the work of
the national preparation team, as well as of Bank supervision during this time.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory. As was noted earlier, several
governmental constraints hampered the early implementation of the project. Fiscal restraints due to IMF
fiscal austerity measures, budget freezes during election years, disbursement delays due to problems with
counterpart financing, and a change in guideline regarding consultants were all significant challenges to
project implementation. However, during the second half of the project overall government implementation
performance improved significantly. The government became a primary supporter of the project, with many
different governmental organizations from IBAMA to the National Forest Agency and the National
Petroleum Agency incorporating PROBIO's results into their policies and programs. The government has
also been exceptional in guaranteeing the sustainability of the project's achievements, by funding the
subprojects that had not finalized work by project close, agreeing to update the list of 900 Priority Areas
every 10 years, and absorbing PROBIO as a regular MMA program. These achievements helped
compensate for an early weak performance, and lead to an overall rating of satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing activity during project implementation was judged to be Satisfactory
. As was noted above, the early years of the project were marked by relatively poor performance. Some of
this was due to factors beyond the control of the implementing agency (see above), However, other issues,
such as a constant turnover in personnel, unfamiliarity of the coordination team with processes and
procedures by the implementing agency, and cumbersome bureaucracy were within the control of the
implementing agency and team. After the Mid-Term Review, when administrative procedures were revised
and a new team put in place, the performance of the coordination team, and project implementation in
general, improved greatly. This improved performance was reflected in the surveys collected in the
independent review, where most subprojects which began execution after the first few years of the project
felt supported and attended to by the coordination team. The coordination team was found to be



                                                    - 16 -

well-qualified, experienced, sensitive to the evolving needs of the subprojects, and agile in responding to
requests.    This was aided by the interpersonal relationships established between members of the
coordination and subproject teams, which often contributed to facilitating the work of all. The rules for
subprojects were found to be clear, having evolved to form a democratic and participative execution
process.

Despite the overall positive evaluation of the implementing agency, some problems remained. The
independent review of sample subprojects noted an occasional disconnect between available resources and
objectives, which at times resulted in a delay in execution. The survey found that executors would have
appreciated better defined administrative procedures and standards for document submission, and that at
times disorganization within the team also contributed to delays (for example when key positions went
unfilled, leaving no one able to sign documents). Training, which was a strong point at the beginning of the
project, decreased as time wore on. This training was largely focused on financial management; some felt
that other subjects such as monitoring and evaluation required additional training. The many layers of
bureaucracy within MMA were noted with frustration. Some subproject executors noted difficulties in the
relationship between MMA and partner institutions like IBAMA which affected subproject execution. The
same study reported that some surveyed felt there had been insufficient political articulation on the part of
MMA to ensure that subproject results could be implemented after the end of the project. These challenges,
while important, are relatively minor. The overall performance of the implementing agency and team over
the life of the project improved steadily and was ultimately successful; thus implementing agency
performance overall was judged to be satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


PROBIO is already serving as a model for numerous other biodiversity projects in Brazil. Among the key
lessons which have been learned through the successful implementation of the PROBIO project are:

Strategic
·        Building consensus around problems, priorities, and strategies for action (for example to establish
the 900 Priority Areas for Biodiversity                    Conservation) results in more immediate and
broad acceptance.
·        The incorporation of biodiversity into other productive sectors needs to be promoted to achieve the
greatest impact.
·        Partnerships for biodiversity conservation established between diverse actors can multiply potential
impact and increase sustainability.
·        The academic community can make key contributions if mobilized to think outside the
conventional, discipline-specific boxes, address challenges, and    help resolve them in practical,
multi-sectoral ways.

Information
·        Information dissemination can have a high impact, especially if carefully targeted towards key
stakeholders
·        Information should be packaged for all target audiences ­ scientists, policy makers, local
communities, etc. ­ in a way that is relevant, accessible,          and appealing to each. Each is an



                                                    - 17 -

important audience.
·        Targeted, applied research can stimulate policy debate and generation if it is disseminated in a
manner that is easily translated into public policy.
·        Bringing people involved in an initiative together for information exchange, as happened with
subproject coordinators and in the biome workshops,                   generates a high degree of knowledge
sharing, network creation, and activity stimulations.

Operational
·        Project and activity design should be participatory, involving all relevant stakeholders from an
early stage
·        Project executors can and should be creative in developing ways to leverage funds (through joint
calls for proposals, etc.) in order to sidestep fiscal                constraints
·        Removal of 1 to 1 cofinancing requirements for each transaction (in order to allow 100% GEF
financing of specific activities) can increase flexibility  under difficult fiscal constraints and allow a
project to be implemented with greater efficiency.
·        The planning phase must include a high level of attention to methodologies and procedures.
·        It helps to match the calendar year of the project to the fiscal year of the country.
·        Never assume promises which depend on third parties.

Subprojects
·        Subproject coordinators benefit greatly from systematic management training.
·        Implementation teams should be provided with a kit including manuals, procedures they will be
expected to follow, key project documents, etc.
·        Bringing together subproject coordinators and teams to share experiences and exchange knowledge
is key.
·        Reducing bureaucracy, making resource use more flexible, and speeding up transactions greatly
improves the efficiency of subproject execution.
·        The monitoring of subprojects should include not only financial and operational matters but also
technical issues, and should result in more focused                   support and guidance for the subproject
implementers.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                                                                                   Braulio Dias
                                                                          Director of Biodiversity Conservation
                                                                          Ministry of the Environment (MMA)

Below is an analysis of the principal impacts of PROBIO on the implementation of the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD) in Brazil, focused on the CBD's operational articles, and on the institutional
consolidation of the biodiversity area within the federal government.

CBD Article 6 (national policies and programs)
PROBIO supported the implementation in Brazil of public biodiversity policies as the primary
implementation instrument of PRONABIO and the PPA Biodiversity Program; through the consolidation of
the PROBABIO Coordinating Commission, which resulted in the creation of CONABIO; and by obtaining
recognition of Biodoversity Priority Areas as a public policy instrument.



                                                      - 18 -

The Coordinating Commissions of PRONABIO and CONABIO were the first Brazilian deliberative
organisms in the environmental area to have an equal government and civil society composition.

CBD Article 7 (evaluation and monitoring of biodiversity)
PROBIO developed the most encompassing and extensive effort in the world to identify Priority Areas for
Biodiversity, supported the greatest number of Rapid Biodiversity Assessments in areas where biodiversity
information was deficient, supported the widest revision of the National Lists of Species Threatened with
Extinction, created the forst National Diagnostic of Exotic Invasive Species, created the first national
1:250,000 scale map of vegetation cover in all the biomes, and supported an important set of evaluations on
genetic variability in selected groups of plants with economic value.

CBD Article 8 (in situ biodiversity conservation)

With the identification of the Priority Areas for Biodiversity, PROBIO contributed directly to the
accelerated creation of protected areas, both by the federal government and by state governments. In the
period from 1998 to 2002, 5.7 million hectares of national parks were created by the federal government,
and in the period from 2003 to June 2006 another 18.4 million hectares of conservation units (CUs) were
created by the federal government, totalling 24.1 million hectares created between 1999 and 2006.
Additionally, PROBIO supported pioneering initiatives in planning and sustainable use around CUs in
order to reduce the anthropic pressures on CUs and promote greater socioeconomic and environmental
sustainability around UCs.

PROBIO supported the elaboration of the most extensive set of plans in the country for the recuperation of
species threatened with extinction and overexploited species, and managed to leverage significant additional
resources from the FNMA for the same objective. As a result of the activities supported by PROBIO the
Permanent Technical Chamber on Endangered or Overexploited Species within CONABIO, and the
Brazilian Alliance for Zero Extinction and Brazilian Forum for Zero Extinction were launched on World
Biodiversity Day in 2006.

PROBIO was primarily responsible for the change in the treatment of the question of exotic invasive
species in the country, and gained notable environmental status based on the elaboration of the first
National Diagnostic of Exotic Invasive Species, the first National Symposium on Exotic Invasive Species,
the creation of the Permanent Technical Chamber on Endangered or Overexploited Species within
CONABIO, support for projects to elaborate control plans for various exotic invasive species, and promote
the inscription of Brazil to the Initiative of the 10 Countries for the Global Invasive Species Program.

CDB Article 9 (ex situ biodiversity conservation)
PROBIO did not work directly with ex situ biodiversity conservation, but supported the information
generation on the files of the ex situ collections of many national institutions, in particular regarding the
local/creole varieties and wild relatives of cultivated plants (manioc, peanut, cashew, pumpkin, corn,
cotton, rice and pupunha).

CDB Article 10 (sustainable use of biodiversity)
PROBIO supported innovative initiatives for the sustainable use of the biodiversity in areas around
protected areas, in the management of native pollinators of cultivated species or species with economic
value which are harvested, in the identification of native cultivated plants which are underutilized but of
great potential ("Plants of the Future"), and in the control of exotic invasive species.




                                                      - 19 -

CDB Article 11 (biodiversity incentive measures)
PROBIO did not work directly with biodiversity incentive measures that promote the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity in the private sector, but supported the development and publication of the
"Manual for Economic Valuation of the Environmental Resources" under the coordination of IPEA and its
use in the training of IBAMA and of EMBRAPA technicians, supported the elaboration and disclosure of
"Case Studies in the Economic Valuation of Brazilian Biodiversity" and "Case Studies in the Distribution
of Benefits in Brazil and in Foreign Countries," "Fragmentation of Ecosystems: Causes, Effects on
Biodiversity and Recommendations for Public Polities" identified public policy instruments for reducing
and reversing the process of fragmentation of Brazilian ecosystems.

CDB Article 12 (biodiversity research and training)
PROBIO represented the greatest effort carried out by MMA to mobilize the capacities of the Brazilian
scientific community to focus on and develop solutions for the topic of biodiversity management. In total
144 subprojects on identification, impact evaluation, and monitoring and management of biodiversity were
supported, involving 284 research institutions. In the scope of these subprojects, and with the aid of CNPq,
642 research scholarships were granted, which allowed the post graduate study of 6 post-doctorates, 67
doctorates and 104 masters for researchers throughout the national territory.


CDB Article 13 (education and public awareness about biodiversity)
The majority of the subprojects supported by PROBIO developed initiatives and products (primers, videos,
courses, etc.) for education and public awareness about Brazilian biodiversity, totaling around 500
products and community courses.         Additionally PROBIO, in partnership with the Directorate of
Environmental Education of MMA and the Ministry of Education and Culture supported the elaboration
and publication of an extensive Educational Kit for the basic education professors to teach subjects
regarding biodiversity, including information about the Brazilian biomes, species of the Brazilian fauna
threatened of extinction (according to the official list), the problems of ecosystem fragmentation of
ecosystems and invasive species, and the importance of conservation units.

CDB Article 14 (evaluation and mitigation of impacts on biodiversity)
PROBIO supported important initiatives to identify factors that cause impacts on Brazilian biodiversity,
out of which stand out the identification of the Priority Areas for the Biodiversity of each Brazilian biome,
the revision of the National List of Species Threatened with Extinction, the first National Diagnostic of
Exotic Invasive Species, elaboration of the first national 1:250.000 scale map of remaining vegetation
cover in each Brazilian biome; support for the recuperation plans for 61 species threatened with extinction;
and the elaboration of control plans for 10 animal and plant exotic invasive species, as well as
micro-organisms.

CDB Article 15 (access to genetic resources and distribution of benefits)
PROBIO did not work directly with the subject of the access to genetic resources and distribution of
benefits, but supported the completion of several studies and publications related to the subject (of which
the book "Traditional Knowledge and Biodiversity in Brazil" and the study "Case Studies on the
Distribution of Benefits in Brazil and in Foreign Countries" stand out) and supported the initial operation
of the Council on the Management of Genetic Heritage (CGEN), created to be the national authority
responsible for this issue.


CDB Article 16 (technology access and transfer)
PROBIO did not work directly with the subject of the access to and transfer of technologies, but supported


                                                    - 20 -

initiatives that promoted a better internalization of technologies developed outside the country, particularly
in the area of information technology, through the Brazilian Biodiversity Information Network Project
implemented by the Tropical Database of the André Tosello Foundation; of climate change modeling
through the Characterization of the Current Climate and Definition of Climate Alterations in the Brazilian
territory through the XXI Century implemented by CPTEC/INPE; Rapid Biodiversity Assessments
implemented by several institutions through Announcement 02/2001; and of monitoring methods for coral
reefs implemented by the subproject Monitoring Coral Reefs.

CDB Article 17 (exchange of biodiversity information)
PROBIO implemented three activities that contributed much to the implementation of an information
exchange on Brazilian biodiversity:       1) it supported the consolidation of syntheses of biodiversity
information for each biome or set of Brazilian biomes, which were published in printed publications,
CD-ROMS and electronic versions on the website of the PROBIO and of the CHM-BRAZIL; 2) supported
the Brazilian Biodiversity Information Network Project implemented by the Tropical Database of the André
Tosello Foundation, which developed 132 online biodiversity databases which are now incorporated in the
website of the National Focal Point of the Clean Development Mechanism of the CDB ­ the
CHM-BRAZIL ­ Brazilian Biodiveristy Portal; and 3) supported the output and publication of 36 books
synthesizing a variety of biodiversity-related subjects, including the creation of the "Biodiversity Series,"
which are available in electronic versions on the websites of PROBIO and the CHM-BRAZIL and on
CD-ROM. In addition, the information generated by PROBIO was disseminated in three Brazil National
Reports for the CDB, published in hard copy and available electronically on the websites of PROBIO and
the portal of the Secretariat of the CDB in the CHM in 1998, 2002 and 2006.

CDB Article 18 (scientific and technical cooperation on biodiversity)
PROBIO did not directly work with the subject of scientific and technical cooperation on biodiversity
among the member countries of the CDB, but information generated by PROBIO was disseminated in
global and regional meetings about cooperation in the area of biodiversity, particularly in the Meeting to
Identify Biodiversity Themes for Cooperation and Exchange among the South-American Countries, which
was held in Rio de Janeiro in December 2003; in the meeting of on the Clearing-House Mechanism for
Latin America and Caribbean, which was held in Brasilia in March of 2005; in meetings of the Subsidiary
Organism for Technological, Technical, and Scientific Counsel (SBSTTA) and meetings of the Conference
of the Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity, especially the COP8 held in Curitiba in March 2006.

CDB Article 19 (biotechnology biosecurity)
The PROBIO did not work with biosecurity for GMOs.

CDB Article 20 (financial resources for biodiversity)
PROBIO constituted one of the most important mechanisms for financial contributions for Brazilian
biodiversity by the GEF and by the federal government of Brazil, beyond having contributed to the
leveraging of significant additional financial resources from FNMA, of CNPq and 284 public and private
organizations that were executors of PROBIO subprojects, adding up to national counterpart resources of
approximately USD 31 millions. Additionally, the signature of the contract of PROBIO with the World
Bank made feasible, with the financial counterpart of the National Treasury and the authorization of the
Ministry of the Environment, the creation of the Brazilian Fund for Biodiversity (FUNBIO) with financial
support of the GEF through the World Bank.


                                                                                  Daniela Suárez de Oliveira
                                                                              PROBIO Project Coordinator


                                                     - 21 -

                                                                        Ministry of the Environment (MMA)

The experience of implementing a project like PROBIO contributed to the implementation of
other Ministry of the Environment projects. It can be highlighted that the implementation
arrangement was complex, requiring the installation of a team in MMA and another in CNPq.
Because of this, the possibility of payment of grants for the execution of technical or
administrative activities in the ambit of subprojects has been pointed out by various executors as
being better than in other projects, justifying those similar arrangements be replicated. In
operational terms, the change to make the provision of counterpart funds separate from the
provision of GEF funds more flexible was strategic in making project implementation more agile.
Also the possibility that the Technical Secretariat of PROBIO could approve Torso for less than
$10,000 helped make the process of contracting consultants for subprojects more agile since, by
the end of the project, there had been 1508 Torso. Having the Task Manager of the project reside
in Brazil, in the same city in which the project was executed, was also shown to be more adequate
in permitting that negotiations and no objections were done and received with more agility.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

                                                                                    Denise Marçal Rambaldi
                                                                                            General Secretary
                                     Associação Mico-leão-dourado (Golden Lion Tamarin Association )

The support of PROBIO was very important for the support of the strengthening of the Associação
Mico-Leão-Dourado, which became a regional reference in areas such as geographic information systems,
protection and structural restoration of fragmented landscapes, and support to the formulation and
implementation of public policies for biodiversity conservation.

All the institutional partnerships established during the execution of the project ­ universities, state
government organisms and local prefectures ­ were maintained and strengthened, resulting in the
implementation of diverse actions recommended during project implementation such as, for example, the
implantation of forest corredors for the restoration of connectivity and increase in landscape resiliancy.

PROBIO provided a unique opportunity for the development of studies and analyses on landscape
fragmentation in the hydrographic basin of the São João river, making possible the identification of priority
areas for biodiversity conservation. Through a better understanding of the long-term effects of forest
fragmentation on the dynamic of this landscape, the actions supported by PROBIO made the integrated and
participatory planning of land use in the basin possible, resulting in the integral protection of private areas
with the creation of RPPNs (private reserves) and the ordenation of land use in more than 150,000 hectares
with IBAMA's creation of the Bacia do Rio São João/Mico-Leão-Dourado Environmental Protection Area.
It was only after the support of PROBIO that Associação Mico-Leão-Dourado began to focus more of its
efforts on the management and restoration of the habitat of the endangered golden lion tamarins.



                                                                            Gláucia Moreira Drummond
                                                                                  Technical Superintendant


                                                     - 22 -

                                                  Fundação Biodiversitas (Biodiversitas Foundation)

PROBIO ­ the Biodiversity and Sustainable Use of Brazilian Biodiversity Project ­ implemented in the
ambit of the Ministry of the Environment to operate the National Biological Diversity Program
(PRONABIO) under the guidelines of the National Biodiversity Policy, represents a framework within the
country in respect to the efforts to direct and make effective concrete actions for the conservation,
sustainable use, and repartition of the benefits of our megadiversity, following the proposed strategy
defined by the Convention on Biodiversity.

Brazil, the example for other tropical countries, faces a double challenge: protect the significant part of the
global biodiversity heritage of which it is the steward, and at the same time generate the technical-scientific
information necessary to carry out this activity. Attentive to this necessity, PROBIO, in its 10 years of
existence, has been providing a significant increase in knowledge which, through the stimulation of new
research, dissemination and results integration, has allowed a great advance in the identification of risks
and priorities and in the proposition of conservation methods and strategies which involve intersectoral
participation in environmental planning.

Considering the size of Brazilian territority, and the visible socioeconomic disparities between different
regions of the country, which are reflected in the production capacity of scientific knowledge concentrated
in areas located in Central-South axis, there are still many knowledge gaps that should be overcome. As
the biological cause-and-effect relationships are often not visible in the short term, the need for investments
in studies which permit the long-term monitoring of the effetiveness of conservation actions still stands out,
which justifies the existance of programs like PROBIO.

In name of the Furnace Biodiversities, as a beneficiary of PROBIO resources, I would like to especially
point out the support to two projects, the "Red Book of Fauna Endangered with Extinction," and the
project "Marquis Conservation and Management in Minas Gerais." Considering the history of the Furnace
Biodiversities in respect to the conservation of endangered species, we believe that the publication of the
Red Book, which brings together for the first time all the scientific knowledge generated up to that point on
endangered species, will have a real impact on the conservation of species as it will allow us to: 1) alert
society about the loss of biodiversity, co-opting it to act responsibly in the co-management of natural
resources; 2) direct the investments of Brazilian development organizations in specific programs for the
recuperation of endangered species; and 3) direct public conservation policies, technically subsidizing the
managers in what, where, and how to conserve.

The project "Marquis Conservation and Management in Minas Gerais" contributed, in turn, to the increase
in knowledge about one of the 25 most endangered primate species in the world, allowing the location of
new occurrence areas for the species and verifying the increase in the number of individuals identified. This
information, certainly, will change the path of the conservation actions designed to protect the species.

Institutionally, the participation of the Furnace Biodiversities in PROBIO brought relevant benefits in that
it provided a condition for standing out in subject of endangered species on the national scene, besides
permitting our technical improvement, capacitating a great number of specialists to work with endangered
species.



                                                                                José Maria Cardozo ad Silva
                                                                                    Vice President for Science



                                                     - 23 -

                                                                         Conservation International-Brazil

PROBIO contributed to the significant increase in knowledge about Brazilian biodiversity. New
information was generated, existing information was organized, and new synthesis were done. Making
information flow between all the sectors of society, PROBIO allowed the environmental policies of the
country to be perfected, always on the basis of quality scientific information. We still need to advance
much, but the steps taken with PROBIO help were fundamental.


10. Additional Information


The following is a summary of key findings from the Project Impact Evaluation carried out by Dr.
Paul Little, Doctor of Anthropology, Univerity of Brasilia.

                                            Project Outcomes

General
·       There was a high degree of achievement of the original project objectives.
·       The quality of technical implementation improved each year of the project.
·       The project extensions were similar to those of other contemporary international donor
projects. The reasons included: complex objectives, difficult bureaucracies, unfilled technical
positions, and lack of experience of the initial team.
·       The World Bank insisted on the hiring of new technical specialists, with consolidation of
team after 2001 the quality of execution improved greatly. The original delays did not affect the
overall quality of project activities.
·       A primary problem early in the project was the ability to spend all available financial
resources. Once the project team was consolidated, an agile manner to select subprojects
established, and the requirement for equal GEF and government disbursements removed, financial
execution imporved significantly.


                           Number of people on the PROBIO staff, per year


                     25
                                                                               22
                                                             20          21         21

                     20                                             18


                     15                          13     12
                                            10
                     10

                                5     6

                      5    3


                      0
                          1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006




                                                    - 24 -

Subprojects
·        During the course of project implementation there were adjustments to project priorities
according to the evolving understanding of the environmental and socioeconomic context. First
stage priorities included biomes and priority areas, then ecosystem fragmentation, inventories and
management plans, and finally information for future decision making and linkages bewteen
biodiversity use and economics.

·        The decision to work only through induced demand for subprojects was key in planning
and channeling knowledge generation.
·        After 2001 there was a great increase in the number of subprojects as a result of greater
capacity in the project team and consistent pressure from the World Bank.

                              Number of subprojects approved, per year


                          40                                          36
                          35                            31
                          30                                 25
                          25            20                       20
                          20
                          15
                          10   7
                                                                            3
                            5        0        1    1
                            0
                              1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005


·        144 of 146 approved subprojects were implemented, which was considered a high point of
the project
·        Many subprojects had a high impact in generating new knowledge and techniques that
were of high importance in Brazil. (See full report for a discussion of impacts by subproject
thematic area.)
·        Among the most important contributions of the project was the establishment of the
priority areas for biodiversity conservation within the 5 biomes. The biome-level workshops, plus
the subsequent subprojects to map vegetation coverage in each biome, were especially important
in generating and organizing information on all Brazilian biomes.

Institutional and Policy Results
·        PROBIO played an important role in many of the changes in public policies and
institutional structure related to biodiversity over the last decade. The information generated by
the project was especially important to the drafting of new biodiversity policies.
·        PROBIO played an especially large part in the restructuring of MMA, as it was one of the
most important biodiversity programs.
·        The project was responsible for building interinstitutional partnerships with 284
institutions, as well as intergovernmental partnerships with FNMA (through joint calls for



                                                  - 25 -

proposals) and CNPq (responsible for subproject contracting and financing).
·       Starting in 2000, the project began to publish the results of its work. The quality and
quantity of the material producted is considered one of the strongest points of the project. In
1996, there were hardly any publications in Portuguese on Brazilian biodiversity. Now, thanks in
large part to PROBIO, many of these gaps have been filled.

                                          PROBIO Impacts
·       The principal area where PROBIO had a direct result on legal instruments was through the
identification of Priority Areas for Biodiversity Conservation in each biome. These evaluations
were part of the agreement which created PROBIO, showing excellent strategic vision. The
Priority Areas are now being used in 1) Environmental Impact Assessments; 2) calculation of
environmental compensation paid for works within priority areas; 3) determination of areas
available for oil exploration; 4)determination of water usage rights by the National Water Agency;
5) in National Forest planning; 6)MMA programs for the Atlantic Forest and other conservation
units; and 7) guiding government activities against deforestation in tropical forests.
·       The organization of the project around the biome concept served to create macro level
analysis which allowed Brazilian biodiversity to be treated within a common framework, allowed
visualizations of ecological relationships on a large scale, and offered an adequate framework for
the elaboration of public policies.
·       The concept of environmental services was relatively new; PROBIO's work in this field
advanced the economic valorization of servcies.
·       The project placed great focus on management plan as a technical tool. PROBIO
contributed new technical knowledge on plans for 1) exotioc invasive species, 2) endangered
native species, 3) sustainable use of biodiversity resources, and 4) ecological corridors.
·       The project contributed directly to the modification of the federal government's
administrative structure for biodiversity, especially the SBF and CONABIO, and stimulated new
governmental programs in areas like agrobiodiversity.
·       The project established new intergovernmental and interinstitutional partnerships, which
have proven important beyond the project implementation period.

                                       Areas of Weak Impact
Though most of the project's impacts were highly positive, the independent evaluation identified a
few areas where PROBIO's impact was less than might have been expected.

·       The project had relatively little focus on sustainable use of biodiversity; more emphasis
was placed on biodiversity conservation.
·       There was little dialog bewteen PROBIO and the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO),
which was established at the same time as FUNBIO to work with biodiversity conservation on the
private sector.
·       The project had few linkages to global biodiversity programs and control and monitoring
mechanisms.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Clear biodiversity conservation strategies   Agreement among stakeholders on major         PROBIO had significant impact on the
agreed among major stakeholders, adopted     issues in evidence; strategies disseminated; national biodiversity policy and official
by the Government and disseminated.          successful mainstreaming of strategies by     strategy. The government adopted the
                                             government.                                   results, for example National Petroleum
                                                                                           Agency standards and Priority Areas Decree.
Government funding decisions and policy      Evidence of more strategic policy and funding Ministry restructuring created Secretariat of
recommendations are more strategic.          decisions influenced by PROBIO                Biodiversity and Forestry & Directorate for
                                             recommendations and findings.                 Biodiversity Conservation, which are key in
                                                                                           mainstreaming biodiversity. PROBIO will
                                                                                           continue as govt program.
New models of biodiversity conservation and Subprojects have been concluded and their      120 subprojects finished, 24 continuing with
sustainable use are tested.                  lessons synthesized and analyzed.             government funds. New models of
                                                                                           biodiversity conservation analyzed,
                                                                                           implemented and disseminated with
                                                                                           participation of universities, research
                                                                                           institutes, NGOs, private sector, government.




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of workshops.                         5 biome level workshops and additional        5 workshops for evaluations at the biome
                                             workshops focusing on conservation and        level held and their results widely
                                             sustainable use held.                         disseminated. Several thematic workshops
                                                                                           also organized by the subprojects.
Map synthesizing 900 priority areas for      Map results influence protected areas policy  Map widely disseminated, incorporated into
conservation and sustainable use of Brazilianthroughout Brazil.                            biodiversity conservation and use planning at
biodiversity produced.                                                                     national, state, and municipal levels, and
                                                                                           guiding policy of National Petroleum Agency
                                                                                           and other institutions.
15 studies on the impact of fragmentation on Study results analyzed and disseminated.      15 studies analyzing impact of ecosystem
biodiversity completed.                                                                    fragmentation on biodiversity completed and
                                                                                           results disseminated.
Increased technical capacity on biodiversity Increased technical capacity on biodiversity  784 researchers and more than 70 master
conservation and use in Brazil.              conservation and use in Brazil.               degrees theses and 29 PhD level theses
                                                                                           supported, 242 technical articles, 32 books
                                                                                           chapters and 37 books published.

1End of project




                                                               - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Priority Setting and Dissemination                           3.07             2.83              92
Model Biodiversity Sub-Projects                             13.10           13.01               99
Administration                                               1.85             3.69             199

Total Baseline Cost                                         18.02           19.53
                          Total Project Costs               18.02           19.53
                   Total Financing Required                 18.02           19.53


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.43          0.00         0.43
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.43)          (0.00)       (0.43)
2. Goods                            0.57            0.00         4.77          0.00         5.34
                                   (0.57)          (0.00)      (4.77)          (0.00)       (5.34)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Consulting Services              0.00            0.00        11.56          0.00         11.56
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.50)          (0.00)       (3.50)
5. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00         2.56          0.00         2.56
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.72)          (0.00)       (0.72)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.57            0.00        19.32          0.00         19.89
                                   (0.57)          (0.00)      (9.42)          (0.00)       (9.99)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00     1437063.94         0.00     1437063.94
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)    (885083.53)       (0.00)    (885083.53)
2. Goods                         261917.87         0.00      591631.62         0.00      853549.49
                                (261917.87)       (0.00)    (308872.17)       (0.00)    (570790.04)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00     2422677.87         0.00     2422677.87
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)   (1445803.52)       (0.00)    (1445803.52)
4. Consulting Services              0.00           0.00     10583046.07        0.00     10583046.07
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)   (6673539.42)       (0.00)    (6673539.42)
5. Recurrent Costs



                                                - 28 -

                                           0.00               0.00          539321.80            0.00          539321.80
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)         (424783.49)          (0.00)       (424783.49)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00          3685794.51           0.00          3685794.51
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                            261917.87             0.00         19259535.81           0.00         19521453.68
                                       (261917.87)           (0.00)        (9738082.13)          (0.00)      (10000000.00
                                                                                                                      )

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
                               1.99         1.08                     1.88         0.95                  94.5      88.0
Priority Setting and
Dissemination
Model Biodiversity             8.01         5.09                     8.12         4.89                  101.4     96.1
Sub-Projects
Project                        0.00         1.85                     0.00         3.69                   0.0     199.5
Administration
Total                         10.00        10.00                    10.00         9.52                  100.0     95.2




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Project costs were assessed at appraisal as follows.

The total project cost was estimated at US$20 million (US$10 million from GEF Trust Fund and US$10
million from the Brazilian Government), including physical and price contingencies amounting to
approximately 7% of total project costs. Subproject implementing entities also contributed at least 25% of
subproject costs as cofinancing. GEF grant funds were fully disbursed and executed at project close.

Benefits

A net economic benefit was not calculated at appraisal. While a wealth of knowledge, information,
technology, and conservation benefits were generated during the project, these results are nearly impossible
to quantify.




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/ 1993                        Joint Preparation Team
              8/12/1994                      Joint Preparation Team
              10/27/1994                     Joint Preparation Team

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/20/1995                9    1 SENIOR
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST; 1
                                             OPERATIONAL LAWYER;
                                             1
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             LAWYER; 1 FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST; 1
                                             BIODIVERSITY
                                             SPECIALIST; 1
                                             CONSERVATION
                                             SPECIALIST; 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST; 1 PROJECT
                                             COST AND
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST
              12/06/1995                2    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             LAWYER

 Supervision

              12/04/1997                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S
              03/16/1998                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S
              04/10/1999                1    ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST           S
                                             (1)
              12/17/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/05/2001                1    ENV. SPECIALIST (1)              S
              05/20/2002                1    SENIOR ENV. SPECIALIST (1)       S
              11/14/2002                1    ENV. SPECIALIST (1)              S
              05/30/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              03/22/2004                3    SENIOR BIODIVERSITY SP           S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                             RESEARCH ANALYST (1)
              10/24/2004                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             TECHNICAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 31 -

                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               05/25/05                4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S
                                           CONSULTANT (2); finance
                                           specialist (1)


 ICR
               03/06                  1     ICR Consultant                    S    S




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The following is a partial list of supporting materials drawn upon for this ICR:

Avaliação Final do Project: Conervação e utilização sustentável da diversidade biológica brasileira
regiões CO-N-NE

Implementation Status Reports

Interview: José Maria Cardoso da Silva, Vice President for Science, Conservation International-Brasil

Interview: Gláucia Moreira Drummond, Technical Superintendant, Fundação Biodiversitas

Interview, Braulio Díaz, Director, Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests, MMA

Interview: Adriana Moreira, current Task Team Leader, World Bank

Interview: Daniela Olivera, Project Director, MMA

Interview: Denise Marçal Rambaldi, General Secretary, Associação Mico-leão-dourado

Interview: Claudia Sobrevila, former Task Team Leader, World Bank

Mid-Term Review Independent Evaluation

Mission Aide Memoires

Project Appraisal Document

Project Impact Evaluation by Dr. Paul Little, Doctor of Anthropology, Univerity of Brasilia.

Project Status Reports


Publications produced by PROBIO

Avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade do Cerrado e Pantanal. Brasília:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2000. 26p.

Avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade da Atlantic Foreste Campos Sulinos.
Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2000. 40p.

Atlas ambiental da APA de Guaraqueçaba. Curitiba: Sociedade de Pesquisa em Vida Selvagem e Educação
Ambiental ­ SPVS. 2000. 47p.




                                                  - 35 -

Saberes tradicionais e biodiversidade no Brasil. Diegues, A. C.; Arruda, R. S. V. (Orgs). Brasília:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2001. 176p.

Cerrado: caracterização e recuperação de matas de galeria. Ribeiro, J. F.; Fonseca, C. E. L.; Sousa-Silva,
J. C. (Eds). Planaltina: Embrapa Cerrados, 2001. 899p.

Biodiversidade da Amazônia Brasileira        Capobianco, J.P.R. et al. (Orgs). São Paulo: Estação da
Liberdade; Instituto Socioambiental. 2001. 540p.

Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação, utilização sustentável e
repartição de benefícios da Biodiversidade na Amazônia brasileira. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente,
Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2001. 144p.

Conservação da biodiversidade em ecossistemas tropicais: avanços conceituais e revisão de novas
metodologias de avaliação e monitoramento. Garay, I. E. G.; Dias, B. F. S. (Orgs). Petrópolis: Editora
Vozes, 2001. 430p.

Avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade das Zonas Costeira e Marinha.
Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2002. 72p.

Avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade da Caatinga. Brasília: Ministério do
Meio Ambiente, Secretaria da Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2002. 36p.

Biodiversidade brasileira - Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação,
utilização sustentável e repartição de benefícios da biodiversidade brasileira. Brasília: Ministério do Meio
Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2002. 404p.

Projeto de conservação e utilização sustentável da diversidade biológica brasileira: Relatório de atividades
1996 - 2002. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2002. 76p.

Fragmentação de ecossistemas: causas, efeitos sobre a biodiversidade e recomendações de políticas
públicas. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2003. 510p.

Mapa das áreas prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade + CD Rom contendo o mapa, lista das
áreas e o livro Biodiversidade brasileira - Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a
conservação, utilização sustentável e repartição de benefícios da biodiversidade brasileira. Ministério do
Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2003.

Biodiversidade da Caatinga: áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação. Brasília: Ministério do Meio
Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004. 382p.

A floresta com araucária no Paraná: conservação e diagnóstico dos remanescentes florestais. Brasília:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004. 236p.

Brejos de altitude em Pernambuco e Paraíba ­ História Natural, Ecologia e Conservação. Brasília:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004. 324p.

A Floresta Atlântica de Tabuleiros ­ Diversidade funcional da cobertura arbórea. Irene Garay e Cecília
Maria Rizzini (Orgs.) Editora Vozes. 2004 256 p.


                                                   - 36 -

Biodiversity in the Brazilian Amazon: assessment and priority actions for conservation, sustainable use and
benefit sharing. Adalberto Veríssimo et al.; Editor Associado Tony Gross; Coordenação Geral João Paulo
Ribeiro Capobianco; traduzido por Tony Gross et al. São Paulo: Estação Liberdade, 2004. 535p.

Taim, banhado de vida/ Núcleo de Educação e Monitoramento Ambiental ­ NEMA. Rio Grande: NEMA,
2004. 16p.

Mapa das áreas prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade + CD Rom contendo o mapa, lista das
áreas e o livro Biodiversidade brasileira - Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a
conservação, utilização sustentável e repartição de benefícios da biodiversidade brasileira.Ministério do
Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004.

Relatório de atividades Probio 2002 - 2004. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de
Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004. 58p.

Análise das variações da biodiversidade do bioma Caatinga - Suporte a estratégias regionais de
conservação. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2005. 446p.

Biodiversidade e conservação da Chapada Diamantina. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria
de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2005. 435p.

Espécies invasoras em águas doces ­ Estudos de caso e propostas de manejo. Odete Rocha, Evaldo
Espíndola, Nelsy Fenerich-Verani, José Roberto Verani e Arnola Rietzler (Orgs.). 2005. 416p.

Ações para a conservação de tubarões e raias no sul do Brasil. Porto Alegre: Igaré. 2005. 261p.

Fragmentação de ecossistemas: causas, efeitos sobre a biodiversidade e recomendações de políticas
públicas. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2005. 510p.
(2nd edición).

Monitoramento dos recifes de coral do Brasil. Situação atual e perspectivas. Beatrice Padovani Ferreira e
Mauro Maida MMA, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2006. 120p.

Educação Ambiental Probio (livro para professores, portfolios e jogos interativos) MMA/UnB , 2006. 136
p.

Probio: 10 anos de atuação MMA. Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas 160 p.

A floresta com araucária no Paraná: conservação e diagnóstico dos remanescentes florestais. Brasília:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2006. 236p.

Diversidade Biológica e Conservação da Floresta Atlântica ao Norte do Rio São Francisco Ministério do
Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2006 363p.

Mapa das áreas prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade + CD Rom contendo o mapa, lista das
áreas e o livro Biodiversidade brasileira - Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a
conservação, utilização sustentável e repartição de benefícios da biodiversidade brasileira.Ministério do
Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2006.


                                                   - 37 -

Mapa "Priority Áreas for the conservation, sustainable use and benefit sharing of Brazilian biological
diversity", contendo o mapa, lista das áreas e o livro Biodiversidade brasileira - Avaliação e identificação
de áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação, utilização sustentável e repartição de benefícios da
biodiversidade brasileira, em inglês. Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e
Florestas. 2006.

Parentes Silvestre das Espécies de Plantas Cultivadas. Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de
Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2006 44p.

Espécies exóticas Invasoras: situação brasileira.        Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de
Biodiversidade e Florestas 2006 24 p.

Future Publications

Biota Marinha da Costa Oeste do Ceará.

Cerrado e Pantanal - Áreas e Ações Prioritárias para a Conservação da Biodiversidade.

Mudanças climáticas globais e efeitos sobre a biodiversidade no Brasil.

Inventários Biológicos: resultados e recomendações (impresso e com CD anexo).

Inventários da Lagoa do Cerro e do Casamento.

Planos de manejo de espécies da fauna ameaçadas de extinção.

Planos de manejo de espécies da flora ameaçadas de extinção.

Planos de manejo de espécies exóticas invasoras.

Livro síntese do resultado do WK de: Ações Prioritárias para a Conservação da Biodiversidade da Atlantic
Foreste Campos Sulinos.

Livro síntese do resultado do WK de: Ações Prioritárias para a Conservação da Biodiversidade das Zonas
Costeira e Marinha.

Inventário da Ilha Grande.

Manejo de Toninhas.

Inventário Biológico no Complexo Jauru.

Relatório final do PROBIO.

Livro vermelho da fauna brasileira ameaçada de extinção.

Inventário do Médio Madeira.




                                                   - 38 -

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Amazônia.

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Mata Atlântica.

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Cerrado.

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Pantanal.

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Caatinga.

Atlas dos Remanescentes do bioma Pampas.

CD ROM

Avaliação e Identificação de Áreas Prioritárias para Conservação, Utilização Sustentável e Repartição de
Benefícios da Biodiversidade Brasileira ­ CD-Rom e mapa (em português e inglês) Secretaria de
Biodiversidade e Florestas, Ministério do Meio Ambiente.

Corredor    de   Biodiversidade   da    Atlantic  Forestdo    Sul   da   Bahia.   Instituto de  Estudos
Socio-Ambiental/Conservation International, Ministério do Meio Ambiente.

Fragmentação de ecossistemas: causas, efeitos sobre a biodiversidade e recomendações de políticas
públicas. Brasília: Ministério do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas.

Análise das variações da biodiversidade do bioma Caatinga - Suporte a estratégias regionais de
conservação (CD contendo o livro + o canto das aves da Caatinga).

Biodiversidade da Caatinga: áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação. Brasília: Ministério do Meio
Ambiente, Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas. 2004.

Avaliação e identificação de áreas e ações prioritárias para a conservação, utilização sustentável e
repartição de benefícios da Biodiversidade na Amazônia brasileira.

Avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade das Zonas Costeira e Marinha.
Brasília Ministério do Meio Ambiente/Fundação Bio-Rio e outros (contendo os resultados e documentos
gerados no workshop para avaliação e ações prioritárias para a conservação da biodiversidade das Zonas
Costeira e Marinha).

Future CD ROM

Monitoramento dos recifes de coral do Brasil. Situação atual e perspectivas.




                                                  - 39 -

   Additional Annex 8. List of PROBIO Subprojects


Nº      Subject         Subproject                                   Subprojets                            Cost of Grant Cofinancing
                         Executing                                                                                         (R$)
                        Institutions
1   Avaliações dos  Conservation         Avaliação de áreas e ações prioritárias para o bioma Atlantic      303.750,00              -
    Biomas          International do     Foreste Campos Sulinos
                    Brasil
2   Avaliações dos  Fundação BIO-RIO Avaliação e Ações Prioritárias para Conservação da Biodiversidade       401.812,72  182.880,00
    Biomas                               no Bioma Zona Costeira e Marinha
3   Avaliações dos  Fundação de Apoio    Avaliação e Ações Prioritárias para Conservação da Biodiversidade  345.000,00    152.411,00
    Biomas          ao Desenvolvimento no Bioma Caatinga
                    da Universidade
                    Federal de
                    Pernambuco ­ FADE
4   Avaliações dos  Fundação             Avaliação de áreas e ações prioritárias para conservação do bioma  260.000,00    87.000,00
    Biomas          Pró-natureza -       do Cerrado e Pantanal
                    FUNATURA
5   Avaliações dos  Instituto            Avaliação de áreas e ações prioritárias para o bioma Floresta      512.000,00              -
    Biomas          Sócio-Ambiental -    Amazônica
                    ISA
6   Criação de UC´s Sociedade            Proposta de criação do Parque Nacional do Catimbau /PE                 134.920   41.234,00
                    Nordestina de
                    Ecologia - SNE
7   Entorno de UC´s Conservation         Conservação da Biodiversidade do Recife das Timbebas PARNAM         78.863,00     31.120,00
    - Chamada I     International do     Abrolhos
                    Brasil
8   Entorno de UC´s Conservation         Jalapão: o uso dos recursos naturais                                80.000,00    65.000,00
    - Chamada I     International do
                    Brasil


9   Entorno de UC´s Fundação de Apoio à Parque Nacional do Pantanal e Entorno: Parceira para a               74.400,00    25.320,00
    - Chamada I     Vida nos Trópicos ­ sustentabilidade
                    ECOTROPICA
10  Entorno de UC´s Fundação             Utilização sustentável de recursos da biodiversidade nas áreas do   74.235,00   107.400,00
    - Chamada I     Diamantinense de     entorno do Parque Estadual do Rio Preto (MG)
                    Apoio ao Ensino,
                    Pesquisa e Extensão
                    - FUNDAEPE
11  Entorno de UC´s Fundação             Ecodesenvolvimento no entorno do PARNA Serra da Bodoquena - MS      80.000,00    26.000,00
    - Chamada I     Neotrópica do Brasil
                    - NEOTRÓPICA
12  Entorno de UC´s Fundação             Elaboração do PDS do entorno do PARNA Grande Sertão                 80.000,00    25.600,00
    - Chamada I     Pró-natureza -       Veredas/MG
                    FUNATURA
13  Entorno de UC´s Instituto Brasileiro Uso racional do entorno do PARNA Cabo Orange                         79.139,00   55.646,00
    - Chamada I     do Meio Ambiente e
                    dos Recursos
                    Naturais Renováveis
                    ­ IBAMAGerência
                    Executiva no Estado
                    do Amapá
14  Entorno de UC´s Instituto de         Diretrizes para uso sustentável do entorno do PARNA de Chapada      78.940,00    27.332,00
    - Chamada I     Pesquisa             dos Guimarães




                                                             - 40 -

                     Matogrossense -
                     IPEM
    1   Entorno de   Instituto para o     Desenvolvimento sustentável do entorno da Reserva Biológica do     80.000,00
    5   UC´s -       Desenvolvimento de Ibirapuitã - RS                                                                26.790
        Chamada I    Energias                                                                                          ,00
                     Alternativas e Auto
                     Sustentabilidade -
                     IDEAAS
    1   Entorno de   Núcleo de Educação Desenvolvimento sustentável para as comunidades da área do            51.971,00
    6   UC´s -       e Monitoramento      entorno da ESEC do Taim                                                      17.377,
        Chamada I    Ambiental ­ NEMA                                                                                  00
17   Entorno de UC´s Sociedade de         Plano de Desenvolvimento Sustentável para o entorno do PE Serra    79.480,00     20.450,00
     - Chamada I     Investigações        Santa Bárbara
                     Florestais ­ SIF
18   Entorno de UC´s Sociedade de         Plano de Desenvolvimento Sustentável para o entorno do PE Serra    74.080,00     20.050,00
     - Chamada I     Investigações        de Ricardo Franco
                     Florestais ­ SIF
19   Entorno de UC´s Universidade         Conservação das Paisagens Remanescentes e Desenvolvimento          79.600,00     99.600,00
     - Chamada I     Estadual de Ponta    Sustentável na área de Entorno do PE Vila Velha nos Campos Gerais
                     Grossa ­ UEPG        do Paraná
20   Entorno de UC´s Fundação             Implementação das ações prioritárias do Plano de                   399.716,00   124.428,00
     - Chamada II    Neotrópica do Brasil Ecodesenvolvimento no entorno do PARNA Serra da Bodoquena
                     - NEOTRÓPICA
21   Entorno de UC´s Fundação             Implementação do Plano de Desenvolvimento Sustentável do entorno   399.910,00   152.400,00
     - Chamada II    Pró-natureza -       do Parque Nacional Grande Sertão Veredas
                     FUNATURA
22   Entorno de UC´s Instituto para o     Plano de desenvolvimento sustentável para o entorno da Reserva     147.270,00    81.200,00
     - Chamada II    Desenvolvimento de Biológica do Ibirapuitã
                     Energias
                     Alternativas e Auto
                     Sustentabilidade -
                     IDEAAS
23   Entorno de UC´s Núcleo de Educação Ações prioritárias à sustentabilidade das comunidades do entorno     399.683,00   100.589,00
     - Chamada II    e Monitoramento      da Estação Ecológica do Taim
                     Ambiental ­ NEMA
24   Estudos         Associação Nacional Treinamento e Elaboração de Estudos de Análise Econômica para       107.380,00             -
     Especiais       de Centros de        Valoração da Biodiversidade
                     Pós-Graduação em
                     Economia - ANPEC
25   Estudos         Conservation         Revisão da Lista Oficial das Espécies da Fauna Brasileira          140.500,00
     Especiais       International do     Ameaçadas de Extinção
                     Brasil
26   Estudos         EMBRAPA -            Realização de levantamento para a identificação das instituições   99.608,00     67.200,00
     Especiais       CENARGEN             envolvidas com a conservação Ex Situ, On Farm e In Situ de
                                          recursos genéticos da flora, da fauna e dos microrganismos,
                                          definição da representatividade de cada coleção, em termos de
                                          espécies
27   Estudos         Fundação             Livro Vermelho das Espécies da Fauna Brasileira Ameaçada de        280.000,00   154.260,00
     Especiais       Biodiversitas        Extinção
28   Estudos         Fundação de Apoio à Biodiversidade e Comunidades Tradicionais no Brasil no Contexto da  72.883,00              -
     Especiais       Universidade de São Convenção sobre Diversidade Biológica
                     Paulo ­ FUSP
29   Estudos         Fundação de Apoio    Projeto Piloto de Monitoramento de Recifes de Coral                99.907,00    250.000,00
     Especiais       ao Desenvolvimento
                     da Universidade
                     Federal de




                                                              - 41 -

                     Pernambuco ­ FADE
30   Estudos         Fundação             Proposta para a elaboração de material educativo e instrucional     279.970,28   226.333,00
     Especiais       Universidade de      sobre biodiversidade brasileira, espécies da fauna brasileira
                     Brasília             ameaçada de extinção, fragmentação de ecossistemas, biomas
                                          brasileiros, espécies invasoras e unidades de conservação
31   Estudos         Instituto de EstudosProjeto piloto para implementação da iniciativa internacional para   85.662,52      3.764,27
     Especiais       Sócio-Ambientais do conservação e uso sustentável dos polinizadores
                     Sul da Bahia ­ IESB
32   Estudos         Kanindé - Associação Revisão e Análise das Metodologias Existentes para o Planejamento,  149.963,00    63.380,00
     Especiais       de Defesa            Implementação, Monitoramento e Gestão de Corredores Ecológicos
                     Etno-Ambiental       e Elaboração de Roteiro Metodológico
33   Fragmentação    Associação           Conservação, manejo e restauração de fragmentos de Atlantic         596.204,64 1.572.295,50
     de Habitats     Mico-leão-dourado    Forestno estado do Rio de Janeiro: mamíferos como táxon focal
                                          para a formulação de estratégias.
34   Fragmentação    EMBRAPA - ACRE       Efeito do Processo de Fragmentação Florestal na Sustentabilidade    444.618,72   177.700,00
     de Habitats                          de alguns Ecossistemas Periféricos aos Eixos Rodoviários no
                                          Sudeste Acreano
35   Fragmentação    Fundação BIO-RIO A fragmentação e a qualidade da dieta do primata folívoro endêmico      453.757,56   526.064,00
     de Habitats                          da floresta atlântica
36   Fragmentação    Fundação de Amparo Efeito da Fragmentação de Áreas Úmidas nas Populações de Aves         300.483,22   455.820,30
     de Habitats     e Desenvolvimento    Limícolas Migratórias Intercontinentais: uma análise sobre os
                     da Pesquisa ­        corredores migratórios no norte do BR
                     FADESP
37   Fragmentação    Fundação de Amparo Efeitos da fragmentação de habitat sobre populações de mamiferos      401.723,99   244.225,47
     de Habitats     e Desenvolvimento    no médio e baixo Tapajós, Pará.
                     da Pesquisa ­
                     FADESP
    3   Fragmentaçã Fundação de Apoio a Estratégia para conservação e manejo de biodiversidade:               597.673,45
    8   o de HabitatsRecursos Genéticos fragmentos de florestas semidecíduas                                            950.09
                     e Biotecnologia                                                                                    0,00
                     Dalmo Catauli
                     Giacometti
39   Fragmentação    Fundação de Apoio    Fragmentação natural e artificial de rios: comparação entre os      449.402,60             -
     de Habitats     Institucional ao     lagos do médio Rio Doce (MG) e as represas do médio Tietê (SP)
                     Desenvolvimento
                     Científico e
                     Tecnológico ­
                     FAI-UFSCar
40   Fragmentação    Fundação de          Estudos de conservação e recuperação de fragmentos florestais da    555.123,35   360.000,00
     de Habitats     Desenvolvimento da APA de Camanducaia
                     Pesquisa - FUNDEP
41   Fragmentação    Fundação de          Efeitos temporais e espaciais da fragmentação de habitats em        360.086,78   242.600,00
     de Habitats     Desenvolvimento da populações de insetos e pássaros: subsídios para o manejo e
                     Pesquisa - FUNDEP conservação de florestas.
42   Fragmentação    Fundação de          Estrutura e dinâmica da biota de isolados naturais e antrópicos do  599.045,12   291.000,00
     de Habitats     Empreendimentos      cerrado
                     Científicos e
                     Tecnológicos ­
                     FINATEC
43   Fragmentação    Fundação de          Conservação do bioma floresta com araucária                         561.884,12   124.000,00
     de Habitats     Pesquisas Florestais
                     - FUPEF
44   Fragmentação    Fundação Pau Brasil Remanescentes de florestas na região de Una - RESTAUNA               440.806,08   400.000,00
     de Habitats     - FUNPAB
45   Fragmentação    Fundação             A fragmentação sutil, um estudo na mata atlântica                   597.830,30 1.790.030,47
     de Habitats     Universitária José




                                                               - 42 -

                    Bonifácio - FUJB
46   Fragmentação   Instituto de EstudosAbordagens ecológicas e instrumentos econômicos para o               457.868,96   680.254,00
     de Habitats    Sócio-Ambientais do estabelecimento do corredor do descobrimento: uma estratégia
                    Sul da Bahia ­ IESB para reverter a fragmentaçao florestal na Atlantic Forestdo sul da
                                         Bahia.
47   Fragmentação   Instituto de         Ilhas de biodiversidade como corredores na restauração da           449.014,00   125.400,00
     de Habitats    Pesquisas Ecológicas paisagem fragmentada do Pontal do Paranapanema, São Paulo
                    ­ IPÊ
48   Informe sobre EMBRAPA Recursos Informe sobre espécies exóticas invasoras ­ sistemas de produção         150.000,00 1.695.688,40
     espécies       Genéticos e          da agricultura, pecuária e silvicultura
     exóticas       Tecnologia
     invasoras
49   Informe sobre Fundação Arthur       Informe sobre espécies invasoras que afetam as águas continentais   147.574,80    36.894,00
     espécies       Bernades             (Fauna, Flora e Microorganismos)
     exóticas       (FUNARBE)
     invasoras
50   Informe sobre Fundação de EstudosOrganismos que afetam o ambiente marinho                               149.776,40   138.785,00
     espécies       e Pesquisas
     exóticas       Aquáticas -
     invasoras      FUNDESPA
51   Informe sobre Fundação para o       Espécies exóticas invasoras que afetam a saúde humana               149.841,00 1.268.952,22
     espécies       Desenvolvimento
     exóticas       Científico e
     invasoras      Tecnológico em
                    Saúde - FIOTEC
52   Informe sobre Instituto de          Informe sobre espécies exóticas invasoras: organismos que afetam    149.974,00    67.000,00
     espécies       Conservação          o ambiente terrestre
     exóticas       Ambiental The
     invasoras      Nature Conservancy
                    do Brasil - TNC
    5   Inventários Associação Caatinga Análise das variações da biodiversidade da caatinga como o apoio de  248.825,29
    3                                    sensoriamento remoto e sistema de informações geográficas para                695.96
                                         suporte de estratégias regionais de conservação                               4,00



54   Inventários    Associação Plantas   Chapada Diamantina: biodiversidade                                  329.723,00    83.000,00
                    do Nordeste - APNE
55   Inventários    Conservation         Inventário biológico nos vales dos rios Jequitinhonha e Mucuri nos  385.770,18   718.622,00
                    International do     estados de Minas Gerais e Bahia
                    Brasil


56   Inventários    Fundação de Amparo Paisagens e Biodiversidade: uma perspectiva integrada para            312.356,00   341.222,00
                    e Desenvolvimento    inventário e conservação da Serra do Cachimbo
                    da Pesquisa -
                    FADESP
57   Inventários    Fundação de Amparo Diversidade de vertebrados no Alto Rio dos Marmelos (BX 044)          229.406,00   133.260,00
                    e Desenvolvimento
                    da Pesquisa -
                    FADESP
58   Inventários    Fundação de Apoio à Inventários da biodiversidade na Serra do Amolar                     156.649,61    61.423,00
                    Vida nos Trópicos -
                    ECOTRÓPICA
59   Inventários    Fundação de Apoio    Composição, riqueza e diversidade de espécies do Centro de          379.912,27   110.700,00
                    ao Desenvolvimento Endemismo Pernambuco
                    da Universidade
                    Federal de




                                                              - 43 -

                 Pernambuco ­ FADE
60  Inventários  Fundação de          Inventário da Biodiversidade do Vale e Serra do Paranã e do Sul de   329.771,00   577.605,00
                 Empreendimentos      Tocantins
                 Científicos e
                 Tecnológicos ­
                 FINATEC


61  Inventários  Fundação de          Inventário da biota aquática com vistas a conservação e utilização   229.857,60 1.086.505,00
                 Empreendimentos      sustentável do bioma cerrado (Serra e vale do Rio Paranã)
                 Científicos e
                 Tecnológicos ­
                 FINATEC
62  Inventários  Fundação             Inventário Zoobotânico do Rio das Mortes-MT                          127.359,00   116.500,00
                 Universidade do
                 Estado de Mato
                 Grosso - UNEMAT
63  Inventários  Fundação             Inventário da diversidade biológica do Complexo Jauru                389.108,00   395.628,00
                 Universidade
                 Federal de Mato
                 Grosso do Sul -
                 UFMS


64  Inventários  Fundação             Diversidade de vertebrados do Pantepui - AM                          237.012,00 1.081.666,00
                 Universitária José
                 Bonifácio - FUJB
65  Inventários  Fundação             Avaliação da diversidade na Lagoa do Cerro, na Lagoa do Casamento    185.303,18   154.100,00
                 Zoobotânica do Rio e em seus ecossistemas associados, Zona Costeira, Rio Grande do
                 Grande do Sul -      Sul
                 FZRGS
66  Inventários  Instituto de         Inventário Biológico das Áreas Sucuriju e Região dos Lagos, Amapá    149.840,00    50.000,00
                 Pesquisas Científicas
                 do estado do Amapá
                 - IEPA
67  Inventários  Instituto Driádes de Biota das Florestas do Planalto de Conquista, Sudoeste da Bahia      265.830,48   226.680,00
                 Pesquisa e
                 Conservação da
                 Biodiversidade
68  Inventários  Instituto Nacional   Inventário faunístico na área do médio Madeira                       340.936,00 1.853.950,00
                 de Pesquisas da
                 Amazônia - INPA
69  Inventários  Museu Paraense       Avaliação ecológica e seleção de áreas prioritárias à conservação de 120.000,00   319.535,00
                 Emílio Goeldi - MPEG savanas amazônicas, arquipélago do Marajó, Estado do Pará


70  Inventários  Universidade do      RAP Ilha Grande: um levantamento da biodiversidade                   150.000,00   205.753,00
                 Estado do Rio de
                 Janeiro - UERJ
71  Inventários  Universidade         Biota marinha da costa oeste do Ceará                                 84.014,00   115.500,00
                 Federal do Ceará -
                 Departamento de
                 Biologia
72  Inventários  Universidade         Biodiversidade dos Campos do Planalto das Araucárias                 211.293,00   186.672,00
                 Federal do Rio
                 Grande do Sul




                                                           - 44 -

73  Manejo de    Fundação            Manejo e conservação do muriqui em Minas Gerais                     356.548,00   137.142,00
    Espécies     Biodiversitas
    Ameaçadas de
    Extinção
74  Manejo de    Fundação Centro     Plano de manejo da tartaruga de pente                               353.906,00   136.050,00
    Espécies     Brasileiro de
    Ameaçadas de Proteção e Pesquisa
    Extinção     das Tartarugas
                 Marinhas -
                 Pró-Tamar
75  Manejo de    Fundação de Amparo O status das aves endêmicas da Amazônia Oriental                     239.990,00   132.600,00
    Espécies     e Desenvolvimento
    Ameaçadas de da Pesquisa ­
    Extinção     FADESP
76  Manejo de    Fundação de Apoio a Biologia, Parâmetros Populacionais e Análise do Comércio de Cavalos 282.633,00  358.794,00
    Espécies     Pesquisa e Extensão Marinhos
    Ameaçadas de - FUNAPE
    Extinção
77  Manejo de    Fundação de         Elaboração de Plano de Manejo para a Uruçu Amarela                  347.883,28  366.243,00
    Espécies     Desenvolvimento da
    Ameaçadas de Pesquisa - FUNDEP
    Extinção
78  Manejo de    Fundação de         Conservando Caprimulgus candicans no Brasil                          239.117,00  132.100,00
    Espécies     Empreendimentos
    Ameaçadas de Científicos e
    Extinção     Tecnológicos -
                 FINATEC
79  Manejo de    Fundação de         Plano de Manejo para Lonchophylla dekeyseri                         239.978,00   83.650,00
    Espécies     Empreendimentos
    Ameaçadas de Científicos e
    Extinção     Tecnológicos -
                 FINATEC
80  Manejo de    Fundação de EstudosEcologia e Distribuição de Mazama bororo                              253.168,94 406.800,00
    Espécies     e Pesquisas em
    Ameaçadas de Agronomia, Medicina
    Extinção     Veterinária e
                 Zootecnica ­ FUNEP
81  Manejo de    Fundação para o     Estratégias de conservação para a Toninha (Pontoporia blanvillei)   240.000,00  275.040,00
    Espécies     Desenvolvimento     nas áreas de manejo I e II: buscando alternativas para salvar uma
    Ameaçadas de Científico e        espécie
    Extinção     Tecnológico em
                 Saúde - FIOTEC
82  Manejo de    Fundação            Estudos de Ecologia e Genética para a Conservação do Macaco         298.352,00  264.000,00
    Espécies     Universidade do     Saguinus
    Ameaçadas de Amazonas - FUA
    Extinção
83  Manejo de    Fundação            Salvar Seláquios do Sul do Brasil                                    277.921,56  126.160,00
    Espécies     Universidade
    Ameaçadas de Federal do Rio
    Extinção     Grande - FURG
84  Manejo de    Instituto de EstudosAvaliação das Populações do Macaco Prego do Peito Amarelo           294.540,00   131.877,00
    Espécies     Sócio-Ambientais do
    Ameaçadas de Sul da Bahia ­ IESB
    Extinção
85  Manejo de    Instituto de        Viabilidade Populacional do Muriqui                                 232.063,00   70.824,00
    Espécies     Pesquisa da Atlantic
    Ameaçadas de Forest- IPEMA



                                                          - 45 -

    Extinção
86  Manejo de     Instituto de         Variabilidade populacional do Muriqui - Brachyteles hypoxanthus   349.284,00    211.000,00
    Espécies      Pesquisa da Atlantic (Primates, Atelidae), em fragmentos de Atlantic Forestno estado
    Ameaçadas de  Forest- IPEMA        do Espírito Santo - Fase II
    Extinção
87  Manejo de     Instituto Dríades de Proposta de Elaboração do Plano de Manejo de Dinoponera lucida    239.861,00    123.764,00
    Espécies      Pesquisa e           Emery, a formiga gigante do corredor central da Mata Atlântica
    Ameaçadas de  Conservação da
    Extinção      Biodiversidade
88  Manejo de     Instituto Dríades de Conservação de Brachyteles: uma síntese da ecologia do gênero e   359.398,00    168.426,00
    Espécies      Pesquisa e           um plano de ação para a Estação Biológica de Caratinga, MG
    Ameaçadas de  Conservação da
    Extinção      Biodiversidade
89  Manejo de     Núcleo de Educação Manejo e conservação das tartarugas marinhas                        243.217,00     90.850,00
    Espécies      e Monitoramento
    Ameaçadas de  Ambiental
    Extinção
90  Manejo de     Pontífica            Sassafrás: Bioecologia e Uso Sustentável                          442.064,00    326.512,00
    Espécies      Universidade
    Ameaçadas de  Católica do Paraná -
    Extinção      PUCPR
91  Manejo de     Universidade         Anfíbios de altitude do Itatiaia                                  240.000,00   466.000,00
    Espécies      Federal Rural do RJ
    Ameaçadas de  - FAPUR
    Extinção
92  Manejo de     EMBRAPA - CPAR       Búfalos Selvagens da Rebio do Vale do Guaporé                     224.669,00     75.331,00
    Espécies
    Invasoras
93  Manejo de     EMBRAPA              Manejo de Áreas Invadidas por Algarobeiras                        210.293,00    341.304,00
    Espécies      SEMI-ÁRIDO
    Invasoras


94  Manejo de     Fundação de Apoio    Monitoramento e Desenvolvimento de Tecnologias para o Manejo de   333.074,00 316.800,00
    Espécies      Institucional ao     Espécies Exóticas em Águas Doces
    Invasoras     Desenvolvimento
                  Científico e
                  Tecnológico ­
                  FAI-UFSCar
95  Manejo de     Fundação de          Plano de Manejo de Tupinambis merianae                            329.627,74    123.601,00
    Espécies      Empreendimentos
    Invasoras     Científicos e
                  Tecnológicos ­
                  FINATEC
96  Manejo de     Universidade         Manejo de Gomphrena elegans em Bonito                             299.042,00    103.460,00
    Espécies      Federal do Mato
    Invasoras     Grosso do Sul -
                  UFMS
97  Manejo de     Universidade         Estudo de Agentes para Controle de Tecoma stans                   298.491,00 504.812,00
    Espécies      Regional de
    Invasoras     Blumenau - FURB



98  Manejo de     Centro de Pesquisa   Diagnóstico de polinizadores no vale do São Francisco             108.795,00    231.002,00
    Polinizadores Agropecuária do
    (02/2003 e    Trópico Semi-Árido
    01/2004)      ­ Embrapa
                  Semi-Árido



                                                            - 46 -

99   Manejo de     Fund. Escola         Plano de Manejo para Polinizadores de Fruteiras                      149.354,00  184.116,00
     Polinizadores Politécnica da Bahia
     (02/2003 e
     01/2004)
100  Manejo de     Fundação da          Polinizadores de maracujá no Paraná: diversidade de espécies e seu   148.238,00  90.940,00
     Polinizadores Universidade         uso sustentável na agricultura
     (02/2003 e    Federal do Paraná
     01/2004)      para o
                   Desenvolvimento da
                   Ciência, da
                   Tecnologia e da
                   Cultura - FUNPAR
101  Manejo de     Fundação de Apoio à Manejo de polinizadores autóctones de açaizeiro (Euterpe oleracea     125.667,00  90.320,00
     Polinizadores Pesquisa e ao        Mart.) na Amazônia Oriental
     (02/2003 e    Desenvolvimento
     01/2004)      Agropecuário e
                   Florestal da
                   Amazônia -
                   FUNAGRI
102  Manejo de     Fundação de apoio aoDiagnóstico e manejo dos polinizadores de algodoeiro e gravioleira    149.871,96  83.790,00
     Polinizadores desenvolvimento da
     (02/2003 e    Universidade
     01/2004)      Federal de
                   Pernambuco - FADE
103  Manejo de     Fundação de Apoio    Diagnóstico e manejo dos polinizadores de mangabeira e aceroleira    89.842,76  337.490,00
     Polinizadores ao Desenvolvimento
     (02/2003 e    da Universidade
     01/2004)      Federal de
                   Pernambuco ­ FADE
104  Manejo de     Fundação de Apoio    Manejo sustentável de Xylocopa spp. (Apidae, Xylocopini),            146.008,00  50.334,00
     Polinizadores Universitário -      polinização e produção do maracujá-amarelo (Passiflora edulis f.
     (02/2003 e    Universidade         flavicarpa) no triângulo mineiro
     01/2004)      Federal de
                   Uberlândia
105  Manejo de     Fundação Djalma      Polinização do Cupuaçu (Theobroma grandiflorum, Sterculiaceae) na    57.900,00   52.400,00
     Polinizadores Batista              Amazônia Central: Desenvolvimento de Técnicas para manejo dos
     (02/2003 e                         plantios e dos polinizadores
     01/2004)
106  Manejo de     Fundação Norte       Polinizadores de maracujá no norte fluminense                         58.221,00  59.800,00
     Polinizadores Fluminense de
     (02/2003 e    Desenvolvimento
     01/2004)      Regional -
                   FUNDENOR
107  Manejo de     Fundação             Polinizadores do murici (Byrsonima crassifolia, Malpighiaceae) em    129.574,00  42.700,00
     Polinizadores Souzandrade de       áreas nativas, Maranhão: diversidade de espécies, nidificação e seu
     (02/2003 e    Apoio ao             uso sustentável na agricultura
     01/2004)      Desenvolvimento da
                   UFMA - FSADU
108  Manejo de     Instituto de         Manejando Melipona quadrifasciata em cultivos protegidos de          149.956,00  155.500,00
     Polinizadores Pesquisa da Atlantic tomate: uma alternativa conservacionista
     (02/2003 e    Forest- IPEMA
     01/2004)
109  Manejo de     Universidade do      Polinizadores de araticum (Anonnaceae) no cerrado mato-grossense     102.674,00  46.664,00
     Polinizadores Estado do
     (02/2003 e    Mato-Grosso -
     01/2004)      UNEMAT
110  Manejo de     Universidade         Manejo agrícola e riqueza de polinizadores                           149.967,00  90.450,00



                                                              - 47 -

     Polinizadores Estadual Paulista -
     (02/2003 e    UNESP
     01/2004)
111  Mapeamento de Associação Plantas   Levantamento da cobertura vegetal e do uso do solo do bioma         355.975,36   619.450,00
     remanescentes do Nordeste - APNE caatinga
     (02/2004)
112  Mapeamento de Empresa Brasileira Levantamento e mapeamento dos remanescentes da cobertura              139.850,00   261.539,00
     remanescentes de Pesquisa          vegetal do bioma Pantanal, periodo de 2002, na escala de 1:250.000
     (02/2004)     Agropecuária -
                   Embrapa
                   Informática
                   Agropecuária -
                   CNPTIA
113  Mapeamento de Fundação de apoio à Levantamento dos remanescentes da cobertura vegetal do bioma         682.663,00   235.600,00
     remanescentes Pesquisa e ao        cerrado
     (02/2004)     Agronegócio -
                   FAGRO
114  Mapeamento de Fundação de Apoio    Remanescentes do bioma Campos Sulinos                               145.528,00    56.800,00
     remanescentes da Universidade
     (02/2004)     Federal do Rio
                   Grande do Sul -
                   FAURGS
115  Mapeamento de Fundação de Ciência, Uso e cobertura da terra na Floresta Amazônica                      599.931,11   178.570,00
     remanescentes Aplicações e
     (02/2004)     Tecnologia Espaciais
                   - FUNCATE
116  Mapeamento de Instituto de EstudosMapeamento do bioma Atlantic Foreste implementação de uma base       450.000,00   212.290,00
     remanescentes Socioambientais do de dados em ambiente de sistema de informações geográficas
     (02/2004)     Sul da Bahia - IESB
117  Mudanças      Centro de Previsão   Caracterização do Clima Atual e Definição das Alterações            276.866,00 1.226.172,00
     climáticas    de Tempo e Estudos Climáticas para o Território Brasileiro ao Longo do Século XXI
                   Climáticos ­
                   CPTEC/INPE
118  Mudanças      Fundação Brasileira Mudanças Climáticas Globais e seus Impactos sobre os                 254.066,00    23.710,00
     climáticas    para o               Ecossistemas Brasileiros
                   Desenvolvimento
                   Sustentável - FBDS
119  Mudanças      Fundação Dalmo       Levantamento de indicadores sensíveis a parâmetros climáticos no     98.910,00   200.736,00
     climáticas    Giacometti           Pantanal
120  Mudanças      Fundação de Apoio à Estudo de caso da Ilha dos Marinheiros, estuário da Laguna dos        74.724,00   332.000,00
     climáticas    Universidade do Rio Patos, RS, Brasil: Diagnóstico Ambiental, Modelo de Elevação Digital
                   Grande - FAURG       e Avaliação da Vulnerabilidade Frente a Cenários de Elevação do
                                        Nível do Mar
121  Mudanças      Fundação de EstudosOs Efeitos da Elevação do nível do Mar Decorrentes do                  99.172,00    79.845,00
     climáticas    e Pesquisas          Aquecimento Global da Atmosfera, nos Ecossistemas Brasileiros: O
                   Aquáticas -          sistema Cananéia Iguape, Litoral Sul do Estado de São Paulo
                   FUNDESPA
122  Mudanças      Fundação Euclides    Diagnóstico da saúde ambiental de ecossistemas recifais da costa     99.931,40 1.320.800,00
     climáticas    da Cunha de Apoio à brasileira com a utilização de foraminíferos bentônicos
                   Universidade
                   Federal Fluminense
123  Mudanças      Fundação             A diversidade e abundância de peixes em zonas rasas estuarinas       99.205,69   167.600,00
     climáticas    Universidade         como indicadores sensíveis a parâmetros climáticos regionais e
                   Federal do Rio       globais: os estuários do Rio Grande do Sul como um estudo de caso
                   Grande
124  Mudanças      Fundação             PROBAC - Proteínas de choque térmico como bioindicadoras de          89.117,00   516.120,00




                                                             - 48 -

     climáticas    Universidade         alteração climática
                   Federal do Rio
                   Grande
125  Mudanças      Fundação             Diagnóstico de alterações devido ao impacto das mudanças              67.472,16    66.500,00
     climáticas    Universidade         climáticas sobre o ecossistema costeiro temperado brasileiro (Rio
                   Federal do Rio       Grande do Sul) através da vegetação e do macrozoobentos
                   Grande
    1   Parentes   Centro Nacional de Prospecção e caracterização de populações das espécies do gênero        99.917,19
    2   Silvestres Pesquisa do Algodão Gossypium nativas ou naturalizadas do Brasil                                    122.00
    6              - Embrapa Algodão                                                                                   0,00


127  Parentes      Embrapa              Identificação e mapeamento da distribuição geográfica e              75.000,00    114.030,00
     Silvestres    Agroindústria        caracterização da diversidade biológica das espécies brasileiras da
                   Tropical             Anacardium (Anacardiaceae), com vistas à conservação dos parentes
                                        silvestres e das raças locais ou variedades crioulas do cajueiro
128  Parentes      Embrapa Arroz e      Coleta, Conservação e Análise de Variedades Tradicionais e            73.651,00    25.170,00
     Silvestres    Feijão               Espécies Silvestres de Arroz no Brasil




129  Parentes      Embrapa Milho e      Identificação de variabilidade existente em bancos de germoplasma    68.927,50     50.000,00
     Silvestres    Sorgo                de milho no Brasil e comparação com a coleção mantida na Embrapa
130  Parentes      EMBRAPA Recursos Identificação e mapeamento da distribuição geográfica e                  75.885,94     62.200,00
     Silvestres    Genéticos e          caracterização da diversidade biológica das espécies brasileiras de
                   Tecnologia           Arachis (Leguminosae), com vistas à conservação dos parentes
                                        silvestres e das raças locais ou variedades crioulas do amendoim (
                                        Arac
131  Parentes      EMBRAPA Recursos Diagnóstico participativo sobre distribuição geográfica, condições       74.966,66     24.988,89
     Silvestres    Genéticos e          de conservação e diversidade genética de Cucurbita spp
                   Tecnologia
132  Parentes      EMBRAPA Recursos Identificação, mapeamento, avaliação das condições de conservação,       75.000,00     98.240,00
     Silvestres    Genéticos e          proposição de uso e de medidas de conservação a curto, médio e
                   Tecnologia           longo prazo para espécies silvestres, raças locais ou variedades
                                        crioulas do gênero Manihot.
133  Parentes      Fundação Djalma      Pupunha - raças primitivas e parentes silvestres                     87.345,52     40.975,00
     Silvestres    Batista




134  Plantas do    Associação Plantas   Espécies da Flora Nordestina de Importância Econômica Potencial      277.971,60    94.175,00
     Futuro        do Nordeste - APNE
135  Plantas do    Embrapa Recursos     Projeto Plantas do Futuro - Região Centro-Oeste                      279.947,00   102.000,00
     Futuro        Genéticos e
                   Biotecnologia -
                   Embrapa Cenargen
136  Plantas do    Fundação             Identificação e divulgação de informações sobre espécies da flora    279.591,34    94.042,00
     Futuro        Biodiversitas para a de importância econômica atual ou potencial, para uso direto e ou
                   Conservação da       para ampliar a utilização comercial, com vistas a fomentar o
                   Diversidade          desenvolvimento de produtos voltados para o mercado interno e
                   Biológica
137  Plantas do    Fundação de Amparo Identificação e divulgação de informes sobre espécies da flora da      279.429,33   183.528,00
     Futuro        à Pesquisa e         Região Sul de importância econômica atual ou potencial para uso
                   Extensão             direto e ou para ampliar a utilização comercial, com vistas a



                                                             - 49 -

                 Universitária -     fomentar o desenvolvimento de produtos voltados para o mercado
                 FAPEU
138  Plantas do  Museu Paraense      A flora de importância econômica atual ou potencial na região norte 275.840,88    92.000,00
     Futuro      Emílio Goeldi ­ MPEG
139  Rede de     Fundação André      Rede de informação em biodiversidade                                 1.494.200   565.000,00
     informação  Tosello
140  Subprojetos Embrapa-Cenargen    Conservação de recursos fitogenéticos                               599.900,00 2.300.000,00
     inciais
141  Subprojetos Fundação de Apoio   Recuperação e Manejo dos Ecossistemas Naturais de Brejos de         731.400,00 1.716.000,00
     inciais     ao Desenvolvimento Altitude de Pernambuco e Paraíba
                 da Universidade
                 Federal de
                 Pernambuco ­ FADE
142  Subprojetos Fundação de         Conservação e Recuperação da Biodiversidade em Matas de Galeria     838.056,34 1.234.000,00
     inciais     Empreendimentos     do Bioma Cerrado
                 Científicos e
                 Tecnológicos ­
                 FINATEC
143  Subprojetos Fundação            Conservação e Recuperação da Atlantic Forestde Tabuleiros, com      722.200,00 2.737.000,00
     inciais     Universitária José  Base na Avaliação Funcional da Biodiversidade, em Linhares, ES
                 Bonifácio - FUJB
144  Subprojetos Sociedade de        Gerenciamento de área especial para a região de Guaraqueçaba -      770.593,50 1.556.000,00
     inciais     Pesquisa em Vida    Parana.
                 Selvagem e
                 Educação Ambiental
                 - SPVS




                                                         - 50 -

         Additional Annex 9. Protected Areas Created After PROBIO Priority Area Workshops


      Biome       Year            Protected Area Name              Name of Priority Area   Área in hectares
GQRGDUUH&                VDODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ              VULHFHED& VDG$3$
 ODQDWQD3                i EDLX& RL5 RGVDULHFHED&                  70 i EDLX& RL5 RG
GQRGDUUH&               i URFQL6 RGVDGQHWQR& ODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)   i FDUD0 HGVHURGHUU$
ODQDWQD3                                                         $%
GQRGDUUH&               DLOtVDU%HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)              GQODUHGH) RWLUWVL'
ODQDWQD3                                                         ) '   RQURWQ(
GQRGDUUH&               DUDEUi %DWQD6 HGDUUH6 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3      UDEUi %DWQD6 HGDUUH6
ODQDWQD3                                                           70
GQODWVDR&               LHOD%ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ          DFQDU) DLHOD%
HQR= HQLUD0             DFQDU)
GQRGDUUH&               DQHXTRGR%DGDUUH6 ODQRLFD1 HXTUD3          DTRGR%DGDUUH6
ODQDWQD3                                                         60
 DLQ{ ] DP $             i FDXDUD7 RWO$ DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5      &$ i FDXDUD7 RL5

GQODWVDR&                DEtDQUD3 RGDWOH'   DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5  L5 RG$ 3 $
 HQR= HQLUD0                                                       HW
                                                                    JQLGXOVQLDEtDQUD3
                                                                  RDWOH'   QRLJHU
                                                                 DURWLO RW
                                                                      HKW DEtDQUD3
                                                                   VDKQLXTRUUD%HG
GQODWVDR&                XDEP XUR& RGDWQR3 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5   tDUD& DXDEP XUR&
 HQR= HQLUD0                                                       $%
LWQDOW$                 DGQ] D) ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWUR3 HGDHUÈ       * 0 HWQR] LUR+ ROH%
GQWVHUR)                RGUDXG( RmWLSD&
VRQLOX6 VRSP D&
LWQDOW$                 HDLFD%ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ         - 5 RJUXELU) DYR1
GQWVHUR)                DP L& HGpDFD0
VRQLOX6 VRSP D&
GQODWVDR&               RDLFD%ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ         $%URGDYOD6
HQR= HQLUD0             XHP RORWUD%Rm6 HUER&
LWQDOW$                 HGUH9 RL5 RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ 53 RJUD/ RSP D&
GQWVHUR)
VRQLOX6 VRSP D&
GQODWVDR&               VILFH5 VRGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ     1 5 HSDXJQDUD[ D0            HHUFHGR1
HQR= HQLUD0             ODUR& HG                                                             DUDHQLUDP
DJQLWDD&                UGH3 ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ          $%DQLUDWD& DGRVD5
                        DQLUDWD& DGRVD5 DFQDU%
GQRGDUUH&                RWO$ RVXR3 ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ     2 *   RWO$ RVXR3
 ODQDWQD3
 DLQ{ ] DP $             RLJyORF( HVVHUHWQ, HWQDYHOH5 HGDHUÈ       &$ LUXSD;
                         DoQDUHSV( DYR1 ODJQLUH6
 DJQLWDD&                RmKQDWVD& DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(               LUDXJD- R[ LD%
                                                                  LRS$ RGDGDSDK&
                                                                     & HELUDXJD-
VHUR) FLWQDOW$           LFLUX0 HGDFLJyORF( RmoDWV(                / $ LFLUX0
VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $             mLQX& RGDFLJyORF( RmoDWV(                 WVLYLWDUW[ ( DWVHURO)
                                                                    GQXFD- RWHU3 RL5
                                                                  HDWVHURO)



                                                      - 51 -

                                                          WQHP LYORYQHVH'
                                                          L5 RGOHYi WQHWVX6
                                                          L5 RG$3$ DULHGD0
                                                          L5 RG$3$ mLQX&
                                                          HDWVHURO) DULHGD0
                                                          WQHP LYORYQHVH'
                                                          L5 RGOHYi WQHWVX6
                                                          UUH6 ( ( RKOHP UH9
                                                          WUR3 VRmP U, Vr U7 VRG
                                                            2 RKOH9
 GQRGDUUH&         RODUH*   DUUH6 DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(        2 7 VRULHWD0
 ODQDWQD3           VQLWQDFR7
 LQ{ ] DP $         DWDOX0 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)            V] DP$ RLGp0
 GQRGDUUH&                                                WQR0 HGVRSP D&
 ODQDWQD3                                                 UJHO$ HWQR0 HUJHO$
                                                            $
 DLQ{ ] DP $       RDVR5 DWQD6 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)         &$ VXUX3 RWO$
                    VXUX3
 DLQ{ ] DP $        RFVLFQDU) Rm6 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)     WDGDRP D0 , 7
                                                           VHG0 RFLK& [ HVH5
                                                           UX3 RL5 VXUX3 RWO$
                                                          DQ6 mXDFD0 RG1 )
                                                            & DULHUXGD0
 DLQ{ ] DP $        RFVLFQDU) Rm6 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)      &$ DULHUXGD0 DQH6

 DJQLWDD&           ODUER6 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)             UDF$ RL5 RGDLFD%
                                                          L5 RGDLFD%
                                                          DDUUH6 XoDLWDFDQ$
                                                            & ODUER6 DFRXUH0
DLQ{ ] DP $        VXUX3 RGDVR5 DWQD6 ODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)   WO$ , 7 VXUX3 RWO$
                                                          VUX3 RL5 VXUX3
                                                           VUX3 RGDVR5 DWQD6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     HVDLVpOD) VDGODUXWD1 RWQHP XQR0          UDH& HELUDXJD- R[ LD%
VRP D& GQD         HELUHEH%                                HXT5 Rm6 HGRED& RW
DWVDR& VRQLOX6                                             ( &
HQR= HQLUD0 GQD
 DJQLWDD&           VQHJDVVD3 HWH6 VDGODXGDWV( HXTUD3      $%QRP OD& OHXJL0

DLQ{ ] DP $        XJQL; RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3                 DQLUD- RWRSD& , 7

VHUR) FLWQDOW$      LQDUDX*  RL5 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3           53 LQDUDX*   RL5
 VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $        DLWX& DGDUUH6 ODQRLFD1 HXTUD3          LUL0 i UDMDX*  HG( 3
                                                          WHU3 RUX2 RL5 [ HVH5
                                                            & P LUL0 i UDMDX*
 DLQ{ ] DP $       RVRLQ{ OHX4 HUWVHYOL6 DGL9 HGRLJ~IH5    70 RKQLODFR&
                    DLDXJDU$
 DLQ{ ] DP $        i QDUD3 LWDX$ DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5    0 $ i UXSD-

 GQODWVDR&          HUXR6 HGDKQLUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5  $3 HUXR6
 HQR= HQLUD0
DLQ{ ] DP $        RLUi WXD& RL5 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5    2 5 RLUi WXD& RL5 [ ( 5




                                                 - 52 -

DJQLWDD&           DUXWD1 RLQ{ P LUWD3 RGUDOXFLWUD3 DYUHVH5 ( 3 RQDWLD& Rm6
                   RUURKFD& RGDUGH3
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     RDLFD%DGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ       - 5 VRmJUÏ   VRGDUUH6
VRP D& GQD         RmH/ RFL0 RmR- Rm6 RL5
VRQLOX6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     OLVDU%XD3 RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ   - 5 RLU) RED&
VRP D& GQD
VRQLOX6
GQRGDUUH&          WODQDO3 RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ      GQODUWQH& RWODQDO3
ODQDWQD3           ODUWQH&                                    ) '  RQURWQ(
LWQDOW$            VHQD- ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ          RVHQDR- RGDWD0
GQWVHUR)           DJQDWLS,                                   $%DFXMR3
VRQLOX6 VRSP D&
 GQRGDUUH&          HWLH/ RmR- ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ    LQkYOL6 DLQkLR*
 ODQDWQD3                                                    LQkLR*   HGDGLFHUDS$
                                                              2 *  DGDUXR'  DUUH6
 GQRGDUUH&          VDDUUH6 ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ       WD0 DGDUXR'    DUUH6
 ODQDWQD3           DLUDWUR3 DGHVpOD*                         2 *  Vi LR* HGRVVRU*
DJQLWDD&           HRFLJyORF( HVVHUHWQ, HWQDYHOH5 HGDHUÈ    %3 ~DWDP LUX&
                   DEXGQXP DLR*
 GQRGDUUH&          VLVV$ HGDFLJyORF( RmoDWV(                 36 DLOtUD0
 ODQDWQD3
VHUR) FLWQDOW$      RULHKQL3 VHGQDQUH) DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(    X6 RGVXHWD0 Rm6
 VRP D& GQD                                                   5 3
 VRQLOX6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     RWHU3 RmH/ RFL0 DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(        RODWQR3
VRP D& GQD                                                  36 DP HQDSDQDUD3
VRQLOX6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$      VRUXR7 VRGRL5 DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(          L5 RLGp0
 VRP D& GQD                                                   53 DYDXSDUD*    XoDXJ,
 VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $        DLDXJDU$ RGODXGDWV( DWVHURO)             LDXJDU$ RGRmoLHFQR&
                                                              $3
DLQ{ ] DP $        DQDUDXWD- HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)             WDR& DQHJtGQ, DUUH7
                                                            0 $ ODMQDUD/
DJQLWDD&           VRUXDVVRQL'    VRGHOD9 ODUXWD1 RWQHP XQR0 RRmWUH6 RWO$
                                                              %3 VDKQDUL3
GQRGDUUH&          i EDLX& RGVDXJÈ ODXGDWV( HXTUD3          JQL; RL5 RGVDULHFHED&
ODQDWQD3                                                    70
DLQ{ ] DP $        DLDXJDU$ RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3                LDXJDU$ RGRmoLHFQR&
                                                              $3
 GQRGDUUH&          i ULX* RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3                 RHWVH2 DGUR%
 ODQDWQD3                                                     KQL] LDXJDUD3 ODQDWQD3
                                                              70 R
VHUR) FLWQDOW$      HUED- RGRFL3 RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3            %3 HUED- RGRFL3
 VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $        L5 RGVHWQHFVD1 VDGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3        WVHRGX6 RGDGDSDK&
                    DEtDQUD3                                 tXL3 RmKQDUD0 RG
                                                             VLWQDFR7 GQD
 GQRGDUUH&          VDYL9 HUSP H6 VDGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3         OD9 GQDDQLWQDP DL'
 ODQDWQD3                                                     * 0 DKQRKQLWLXTH- RG
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     DUDRFDRFLUH- HGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3             ( & DUDRFDRFLUH-



                                                   - 53 -

VRP D& GQD
VRQLOX6
DJQLWDD&          XDEP LWD& RGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3            MRS, RGHOD9 HXTtX%
                                                         ( 3
DLQ{ ] DP $       RVDKQDWQR0 ODQRLFD1 HXTUD3             3$ HXTDP XFXP X7
                  HXTDP XFXP X7
 GQRGDUUH&        RVDGHUH9 HUWVHYOL6 DGL9 HGRLJ~IH5       i LR* RmWUH6 HGQDU*
 ODQDWQD3          RQDLD%HWVH2                            HVDQUHYD& GQDDLKD%
                                                          JQLP R'  Rm6
                                                           %DQLWQHUUR&
 LQ{ ] DP $       WVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5                    VLFQkUWQHH5 RGDJOD6
 GQODWVDR&         RVVRU*    RWD0 pUDRFRK&                GQVHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                              $3 VHVQHDUD3
 DLQ{ ] DP $       tDWX- RL5 RGDWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5      0 $ tDWX- RL5

 LQ{ ] DP $       HHGQDU*     Hm0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5   VLFQkUWQHH5 RGDJOD6
 GQODWVDR&         i oXUX&                                GQVHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                              $3 VHVQHDUD3
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     DULGQD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5          HSJ, DLpQDQD&
 VRP D& GQD                                               36 HEtXUH3
 VRQLOX6
 LQ{ ] DP $        mQDFDUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5        DRGRJO$ RGDKO,
 GQODWVDR&                                                VLFQkUWQHH5 RGDJOD6
 HQR= HQLUD0                                              GQVHVQHKQDUDP
                                                          $3 VHVQHDUDS
 GQODWVDR&         DWQR3 DGRmR- Rm6 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5 VLFQkUWQHH5
 HQR= HQLUD0                                              GQVHVQHKQDUD0
                                                          $3 VHVQHDUD3
 LWQDOW$           OLVDU%XD3 RGDFLJyORF( RmoDWV(          %3 HSDXJQDP D0
 GQWVHUR)
 VRP D&
 VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $       RGDU3 RGURO) RL5 DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(     70 DKQLULHGD0 RL5

 GQRGDUUH&         DQDUDJD6 DFLJyORF( RmoDWV(             R6 RWO$ RGDLFD%
 ODQDWQD3                                                 * 0 RFVLFQDU)
VHUR) FLWQDOW$    LLP LD8 RGODXGDWV( DWVHURO)            WHU3 RUX2 HGRmLJH5
VRP D& GQD                                               DoDUD& RGDUUH6 GQD
VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $       XEXU8 RL5 ODXGDWV( DWVHURO)            0 $ XEXU8 RL5 , 7

 GQRGDUUH&         HGQDU*     DWD0 DGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)    i LR* RmWUH6 HGQDU*
 ODQDWQD3                                                 HVDQUHYD& GQDDLKD%
                                                           *   VRJQLP R' Rm6
 LWQDOW$           OH0 RGDKO, DGODXGDWV( HXTUD3           53 OH0 RGDKO,
 GQWVHUR)
 VRP D&
 VRQLOX6
 GQRGDUUH&         DGDUXR'    DUUH6 DGODXGDWV( HXTUD3     2 *  DGDUXR'   DUUH6
 ODQDWQD3
GQRGDUUH&         DQ~DUD3 HGODXGDWV( HXTUD3               2 *  DGDUXR'   DUUH6
ODQDWQD3
 GQRGDUUH&         RmSDOD- RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3              WVHRGX6 RGDGDSDK&



                                                - 54 -

 ODQDWQD3                                                       RmKQUD0 tXDL3 RG
                                                                2 7 VQLWQDFR7 GQD
VHUR) FLWQDOW$        i QDUD3 RGRFL3 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3            53 i XJDQDUD3 DLpUX-
 VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$      VR- URVVHIRU3 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3               JDEL7 RL5 RLGp0 RWWO$
VRP D& GQD          ] FLZRKFD:                                  53 XoDXJ, RL5 RWO$
VRQLOX6
DJQLWDD&            DYR1 DUUH6 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3                 JQLWDD& DGOX6 HWLP L/
                                                               * 0
 DLQ{ ] DP $          DP ~DP X6 ODXGDWV( HXTUD3                 DUHXTVHP HJUD0 $3$
                                                                0 $ RUJH1 RL5 RG
VHUR) FLWQDOW$        DUXFV( DWD0 DGDFLJyORL%DYUHVH5            * 0 DUDQHP O$
 VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
DLQ{ ] DP $         HYi WQHWVX6 RWQHP LYORYQHVH'     HGDYUHVH5 2 5 P LEXMX&
                    P LEXMX&
VHUR) FLWQDOW$      HYi WQHWVX6 RWQHP LYORYQHVH'     HGDYUHVH5  L5 RGHWUR1 ODURWL/       HHUFHGR1
VRP D& GQD          RmUDEX7 RGDWQR3 ODXGDWV(                    1 5 HWUR1 RGHGQDU*      DUDHQLUDP
VRQLOX6
DLQ{ ] DP $         HYi WQHWVX6 RWQHP LYORYQHVH'     HGDYUHVH5 0 $ VH} P LOR6 R[ LD%
                    VXUX3 ~FDJDL3
GQRGDUUH&           HYi WQHWVX6 RWQHP LYORYQHVH'     HGDYUHVH5  R6 RWO$ RGDLFD%
ODQDWQD3            LUDF$ RL5 RGVDGHUH9                         * 0 RFVLFQDU)
 DLQ{ ] DP $          DQX[ LS, i XWD& DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5     0 $ LUDR&

DJQLWDD&            LULUD& RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ        %3 RQDELDUD3 LULUD&

 GQODWVDR&           HDJQLWVH5 DGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)              HXTR5 Rm6 HGRED&
                                                                W
 HQR= HQLUD0          ROHGHED&                                  VVRGR7 HGDLKD%
                                                                %3 VRWQD6
 DLQ{ ] DP $          i GQXFD- HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)              2 5 i GQXFD-

 WVHUR) FLWQDOW$      pSDUDFD- RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3                RDWL5 DWQD6 HGDWD0
 VRP D&                                                         DQHF/ HGDWQR3 r SD6
 VLOX6                                                          %3 HGQR& RD
 GQODWVDR&
 HQR= HQLUD0
VHUR) FLWQDOW$        tDMDW, RGDUUH6 DGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3          &6 DEXWDUDX*     mXSDW,
 VRP D& GQD
 VRQLOX6
 LQ{ ] DP $           XSXUXUX& HGDWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5          VLFQkUWQHH5 VDG$3$
 GQODWVDR&                                                      D$ VHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                                    VDG[ LD%
                                                                VHVQHKUD0
                                                                VLFQkUWQHHH5
                                                                GQVHVQHKQDUD0
                                                                $0 VHVQHDUD3
 DLQ{ ] DP $         mQSD& RGRJD/ RGDWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5          7 HmQDSD& RJD/ , 7
                      HGQDU*                                    0 $ DEP DULU$
DLQ{ ] DP $         RLVtUIQ$ RGRKQL] RL5 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5 LUL, RL5 LWRQJDUNQH0 , 7
                                                               $3
 DLQ{ ] DP $          HUSP H6 DUD3 HGUH9 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5 $3 VDQR] DP $ R[ LD%



                                                     - 55 -

DLQ{ ] DP $        DODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ              DKQLGQH] D) %5
                   DKQLGQH] D)
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     QLFLUH*   HGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ  mJUÏ    VRGDUUH6
VRP D& GQD         DKQDGQH0                                DLDFR%DGDUUH6
VRQLOX6                                                      - XoDXJ, DYR1
DLQ{ ] DP $        VyMDSD7 RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ     VyMDSD7

DLQ{ ] DP $        R6 pSDUDJ, ODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ   DP LWQ$ RFQDU%RL5
                   RFVLFQDU)                                 & RFQDU%RL5
DLQ{ ] DP $        i XDQ$ HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)              DRUW$ LULP LD:  , 7
                                                           L5 R[ LD%GQDRLGp0
                                                           LORSyQLDUR5 RFQDU%
                                                             5
DLQ{ ] DP $        LUDIX7 DWDOD%HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)        LQ{ GQR5 KWLZ UHGUR%
                                                           UX3 R[ LD%DP X- , 7
                                                            WLDP X+ HGRSP D&
                                                             $ DP DWXQD&
DJQLWDD&           VHUDP OD3 HGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)           RP D& HGR[ HOSP R&
                                                            , VRWO$ URLD0
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     DUXE, RGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)               GQDQDLDEDW, HGDUUH6
VRP D& GQD                                                  DFQDU%DLHU$ HGVDWD0
VRQLOX6
GQRGDUUH&          ODUED& RGDUUH6 DGODXGDWV( HXTUD3         * 0 ODUED& RGDUUH6
ODQDWQD3
DLQ{ ] DP $        DELUDX*   RGODXGDWV( HXTUD3              7 DULHGD0 RLGp0
                                                           RDULHFHED& DEXWDQL3
                                                           L6 , 7 DQX/ RL5
                                                           UD- RJD/ , 7 D] QL&
                                                           GQDQDSD& RJD/ , 7
                                                           URFLQD0 DEP DULU$

GQRGDUUH&          VDVH0 VD'     DGDSDK& DGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3 JÈ VDGRQRJtOR3
ODQDWQD3                                                   RmKQUD0 RGHWVHRGX6
                                                             0 DQLORUD&
VHUR) FLWQDOW$     DQDLDEDW, HGDUUH6 DGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3     GQDQDLDEDW, HGDUUH6
VRP D& GQD                                                  DFQDU%DLHU$ HGVDWD0
VRQLOX6
GQRGDUUH&          UUH6 DGVHWQHFVD1 DFLJyORL%DYUHVH5        REP LKFD& RGDUUH6
ODQDWQD3           REP LKFD& RG
DLQ{ ] DP $       HYi WQHWVX6 RWQHP LYORYQHVH'   HGDYUHVH5 mQDXSLU$ RL5
                  mQDXSLU$
DLQ{ ] DP $        mQDXU3 DFyLU$ DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5     IOR*   HQR= ODWVDR&
                                                           [ LD%DUDRMDUD0 RG
                                                           LULD& VQLWQDFR7
                                                           HXtX%RQDELDUD3
                                                            DMRS, RGHOD9
                                                             $ i UD3 RGVDULH2
DLQ{ ] DP $        DELUDX*   RGDWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5           5
                                                            WOHYHVRR5 DELUDX*
DLQ{ ] DP $       RKQL] OLQ$ ~DS, DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5    RmLDVQLWQDFR7 R[ LD%
                                                             $
LQ{ DP $           i XSD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5            IOR*   HQR= ODWVDR&
GQODWVDR&                                                  D$ DUDRMDUD0 RG


                                                 - 56 -

 HQR= HQLUD0                                               MDUD0 RGRJDOHSLXTUD
                                                           UDRMDUD0 RmIOR*
                                                            $ VHYHU%
 LQ{ ] DP $       DKLUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5             VLFQkUWQHH5
 GQODWVDR&        DERUH3 LDU$                             GQVHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                               WVXJX$ VHVQHDUD3
                                                            $ Dr UUR&
LQ{ ] DP $        DKLUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5            VLFQkUWQHH5
GQODWVDR&         XoDUHSDWHWHD&                          GQVHVQHKQDUD0
HQR= HQLUD0                                               WVXJX$ VHVQHDUD3
                                                           $ Dr UUR&
 LQ{ ] DP $       HDKQLUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5           VLFQkUWQHH5
 GQODWVDR&        i LUL3 LSXUX*                           GQVHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                               L5 RWO$ VHVQHDUD3
                                                           WO$ , 7 i P DX*
                                                            $ XHVL9 XoDLUX7
 LQ{ ] DP $       DXHWDXFDU7 DKQLUD0 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5 VLFQkUWQHH5
 GQODWVDR&                                                GQVHVQHKQDUD0
 HQR= HQLUD0                                               VHVQHDUD3
 DLQ{ ] DP $      DRKQL] RL5 DWVLYLWDUW[ ( DYUHVH5         HGDGUHEL/ DGRKQL] RL5
                  HGDGUHEL/
DLQ{ ] DP $       mQDP$ RGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)                70 VHUL3 VHOH7 RL5

 GQRGDUUH&        LURSHU& RGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)              P LKFD& RGDUUH6
 ODQDWQD3                                                  VUL3 VHOH7 RL5 GQD$3
                                                           70
 DLQ{ ] DP $      P L[ QDP D- RGODQRLFD1 DWVHURO)          $3 DQHXUX- RL5
DLQ{ ] DP $       P L[ QDP D- RGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3            $3 DEXWLDW,
DLQ{ ] DP $       RYR1 RL5 RGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3              $3 DEXWLDW,
VHUR) FLWQDOW$    VLDUH*   VRSP D& VRGODQRLFD1 HXTUD3     JDEL7 RL5 RLGp0 RWO$
 VRP D& GQD                                                53 XoDXJ, RL5 RWO$
 VRQLOX6
VHUR) FLWQDOW$    VDLUi FXDU$ VDGDFLJyORL%DYUHVH5        JDEL7 RL5 RLGp0 RWO$
VRP D& GQD                                                53 XoDXJ, RL5 RWO$
VRQLOX6
 DLQ{ ] DP $      VyMDSD7 RGODWQHLEP $ RmoHWRU3 HGDHUÈ     70 VHUL3 VHOH7 RL5
                                                                           TOTAL
                                                                                 28,825,936




                                               - 57 -

- 58 -

