The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4149-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$58.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
May 1, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



r
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1 = Rp 1,100
Rp. 1 million = US$909
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPEDA    -   Regional Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS   -   National Development Planning Agency
BLK        -   Vocational Training Center (under the Ministry of Manpower)
BNI 1946   -   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
coi        -   Government of Indonesia
ILO        -   International Labor Organization
IfMIS      -   Indonesian Manpower Management Information System
ITDU       -   Industrial Training Development Unit
JIVT       -   Joint Industrial Vocational Training Scheme
KADIN      -   Indonesian Chamber of Commerce
KLK        -   Rural Training Center
MEC        -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
mOM        -   Ministry of Manpower
NPC        -   National Productivity Center
NVTC       -   National Vocational Training Council
PPF        -   Project Preparation Facility
PUSDIKLAT  -   Ministry of Manpower Central Office for Education and Training
Repelita   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SEKNEG     -   State Secretariat for Procurement Matters
STM        -   Senior Secondary Technical School (under the MEC)
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower :      Republic of Indonesia
Amount :        US$58.1 million equivalent
Terms :         Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would assist the Ministry of Manpower by
financing consultant services, staff training, civil works,
equipment, furniture and project-related operating costs to:
(a) strengthen labor market and manpower planning information
systems at the national and regional levels; (b) improve the
Ministry's management systems and the management capability of
the Ministry's senior and middle-level national and regional
staff; (c) establish a national vocational training system
(including a joint training scheme with industry, and occupa-
tional standards and certification); (d) upgrade the Ministry's
existing skills training facilities and programs in accordance
with employment and industrial development needs; and (e) develop
in selected provinces support for in-plant training by industry,
training for self-employment and for the informal sector, and
mobile training. The main benefits would be: (i) improved labor
market and manpower information and planning systems at national
and provincial levels; (ii) more effective management of training
and establishment of a national training system, including
occupational standards, skills standards and tests and an
apprenticeship system; (iii) upgrading of basic training and
establishment of a capacity for training about 20,000 people each
year in key skills and occupations at advanced levels and in
specialist skills; (iv) improved efficiency in utilization of
training resources; and (v) development and improvement in key
areas of in-plant industrial training, training for self-
employment and the informal sector, and mobile training. In
addition, the project would include arrangements for monitoring
of training costs and outcomes to provi6e the information on
which to base subsequent long-term development of training.
Risks:          The main risk is possible delay in implementation.  To lessen
this risk, detailed consideration was given to the project
management, implementation and monitoring arrangements. The
project size and scope has been limited. In addition, arrange-
ments have been agreed for continuing the existing East Java
regional program of technical assistance through loan financing
This document ha anrstreddibution and ny be uud by rfcints only in the peforane  §
of thdr oici dutel Its ontents may not otbrwie be diaedd withut Wodd Bank authorzaon.



- ii -
of an extension to the existing UNDP-ILO project; this will
ensure the presence of consultants from the outset of the
project. Project activities have been designed in detail and
preparation for implementation is well advanced. Agreement has
been reached on a system for close Bank monitoring including
detailed review of annual plans and budgets.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
(USS MilL2on)
Labor market and manpower
planning information systems                          4.4         4.4      8.8
Training management                                      5.7        6.7     12.4
The national training system                             3.1        2.2      5.3
Vocational training programs (BLK)                       5.8       10.8     16.6
Instructor training                                      6.0        7.9     13.9
In-plant training, supervisory training and
productivity                                       3.4         3.1      6.5
Training for self-employment and the informal sector   0.7          1.2      1.9
Mobile training                                          0.8        1.2      2.0
Base Cost                                     29.9        37.5     67.4
Physical contingencies                                 2.4        2.5      4.9
Price contingencies                                    7.8       10.6     18.4
Total Project Cost /a                         40.1        50.6     90.7
Project Preparation Advance                          -         0.4      0.4
Total Financing Required                      40.1        51.0     91.1
Financing Plan:                                      Local      Foreign   Total
-     (USillton)
IBRD                                                  7.1        51.0     58.1
Government                                            33.0         -      33.0
Total                                          40.1        51.0     91.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
-   -     -tU$ m=iTion)
Annual                                 1.0    2.5  10.5  13.0  13.5  11.5   6.1
Cumulative                             1.0    3.5  14.0  27.0  40.5  52.0  58.1
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5861-IND, dated May 1, 1986.
Map: IBRD No. 19401.
/a     Includes taxes and duties of about US$3.2 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$58.1 million to help
finance the Manpower Development and Training Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Policies for Growth and
Employment" (No. 5597-IND, dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about 2 mil-
lion km2. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about 2.2%
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP 17 r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economny had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Gas Distribution
Project (No. P-4287-IND), circulated under cover of R86-96 dated
April 17, 1986, and approved by the Executing Directors on May 6, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of CNP.



-2-
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
Liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4Z p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14X
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the coun-
try's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis for
longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public reve-
nues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
Ce) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an esti-



- 3 -
mated 4.7Z in 1983 and 6.5Z in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5Z of GNP) in 1982183 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4Z
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal dis-
cipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12Z in 1983 and
91 in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devalua-
tion and the petroleum price adjustments. Faced with the prospect of even
lower oil prices in the year ahead, the Government recently announced an
austere budget for 1986/87. In particular, total expenditure is projected to
fall by 71 (compared to budgeted levels in 1985/86), with a 222 reduction in
the development budget.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5Z p.a. is pro-
bably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and pov-
erty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth
rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of
the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy
environment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable pro-



-4-
vided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist mea-
sures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and exchange
rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of export promo-
tion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready access to
finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing capacity.
However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for comprehen-
sive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has histori-
cally been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduction in
the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions -
including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring higher
local content in production - have served to promote some potentially costly
aid uneconomic investments which could prove counter productive to the export
drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a capi-
tal market, expansion of the bunking network (especially in rural areas) and
selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with increased
bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50X of Indonesia's GDP and 62Z of its population, but only 7Z of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom some 675,000 were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.



12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57Z to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tior. continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be neces-
sary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In
the health 2ector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at
the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality



- 6 -
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By
1981, only 18X of the rural and 40Z of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60X and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the Gov-
ernment's modest growth targets (5Z p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and unried borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal resesrves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradualiy decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3J
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.49 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.12, and the Bank's share of debt service 10.32, compared with 13.3Z and
7.9Z, respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia
was made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness follow-
ing the comodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Croup's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was t.arough IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita CNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank
Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecomnunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the Bank's economic work, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy,
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on Gas Distribution
Project (No. P-4287-IND), circulated under cover of R86-96 dated
April 17, 1986, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 6, 1986.



mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent
expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has gear?d its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level. of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the government bcdget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next 3 years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       T,h.,re has been an improvement in the last few years in the disburse-
ment ratio - from a low of 132 in FYB0 to over 17% in FY85. The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to add.ess these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
41   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Employment and Demand for Skilled Manpower
21.       Expansion of employment opportunities and improvement in the quality
of manpower are key elements in the manpower policies of the Government of
Indonesia in its Fourth Development Plan, Repelita IV, 1984-89. The Govern-
ment projected that both the labor force and employment would increase by
about 9.3 million over the period 1984-89. The manufacturing sector was
expected to create up to 1.9 million new employment opportunities, with the
fastest growing subsectors expected to be metals and machinery and chemical
processing. Self-employment and the informal sector were expected to account
for about three-quarters of new employment outside agriculture and the
government policy is to assist self-employment and the informal sector
directly through training and other support.
22.       Projections based on Repelita IV indicate that in each of the basic
industrial trades there will be demand for several tens of thousands of
additional skilled workers. Although expectations for the rate of growth of
industrialization have been reduced, the need for skilled workers will
continue to exceed the supply. In addition, there will be a need for skills
upgrading of existing workers in order for Indonesian firms to achieve
international competitiveness and better product quality. The Government is
thus faced with a variety of urgent training needs, including skills training
for new entrants to the labor market and upgrading of skills of existing
industrial workers, skills training for workers for overseas employment, and
training for people to become productively self-employed or to enter the
informal sector.



- 10 -
Supply of Skilled Manpower
23.       The principal sources of trained manpower for industrial skilled
employment are the Vocational Training Centers (BLKs) of the Ministry of
Manpower (MOM) and the Senior Technical Secondary Schools (STMs) of the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC). Both provide training to only a
limited skill level.  The MOM has established 33 medium and large BLKs - 16
established with the aid of biLateral donors over the period from 1956 and 17
established since 1974 with loan funds under the Bank-supported Fourth
Education Project (Ln. 1237-IND). The BLKs' main programs are two to three
month basic skill training courses for unemployed youth. The main skill areas
are automotive, mechanical, construction, electrical, welding, comercial,
secretarial, miscellaneous and agriculture. The minimum admission age is 18
and there is normally no educational entry requirement. The 33 medium and
large BLKs have a training capacity of about 8,600 places, equivalent at
present to about 25,000 trainees each year. The MOM has also established about
60 small, rural training centers (KLKs) - part of a target of 120 small
centers, expected to be established by 1986/87, which will provide training
related to both industrial and rural occupations. These small centers, now
being brought into use with equipment procured under export credit agreements,
will have a total training capacity of about 10,000 places, equivalent to
about 35,000 trainees per year. The MOM also provides a relatively large
program of mobile training and the 1985/86 target for trainees in mobile units
is about 75,000. Mobile training has not been formally evaluated but from
observation it appears that many mobile units are no longer effective.
24.       The major problem for the BLKs is the lack of skills and experience
of instructors. During Repelita IV the MOM aims to train 650,000 persons.
This would require some 5,400 instructors in comparison with the present 1,800
instructors. Recently recruited staff are mainly STK graduates with only 6 to
12 months training and no industrial experience. Since salary levels are not
high enough to attract a large number of 2xperienced skilled workers from
industry it will be necessary for the MOM to continue the less satisfactory
approach of recruiting secondary technical school graduates as instructors and
providing them with adequate skills, instructor training and industrial
experience. Another serious problem is the low efficiency of utilization of
resources. Most of the centers appear to run only two three-month courses
each year. At the time of appraisal, the overall efficiency in ut.lization of
accommodation in the sample of BLKs visited was estimated to be less than 25%;
the project is expected to raise this figure to 75%.
25.       A survey of a sample of firms in July 1984 showed that the short
basic training courses of the BLK are not relevant to industrial needs.
However, a recent tracer study of BLK graduates has shown that they are doing
better in the labor market than similar young people who did not go to a BLK,
although in absolute terms the job record is not good. The findings from
these surveys point to the need, and justification, for upgrading the centers,
developing relevant and longer training, recruiting and training an adequate
number of instructors and establishing close links between the centers and
industry.



- 11 -
26.       Secondary Technical Schools.  The senior secondary technical schools
provide four year courses which include about 40% practical skills training.
There was an enrollment of about 100,000 in public STMs in 1983/84 and an
annual output (1983) of about 30,000 in the five broad areas of mechanical,
electrical, electronics, automobile and building trades. The Bank-supported
First and Fourth Education Projects included the establishment of central
workshop facilities to upgrade the training provided by STMs. In recent years
the Asian Development Bank and the Netherlands Government have provided
assistance for the expansion of the STM system.
27.       Training in Industry.  The Government of Indonesia in Repelita IV
places a large and increased responsibility on industry for provision of
training, both for its own immediate needs for skilled manpower and for train-
ing people who will subsequently enter the informal sector or establish them-
selves in self-employment. The Government proposes that industry and private
institutions train 3.8 million people over the five-year period. However, a
survey of industry by Bank and MOM staff in July 1984 indicated that there is
relatively little structured in-plant training. The general practice appears
to be the relatively ineffective one of recruiting unskilled persons and
allowing them to "learn on the job" by observation. Industry is willing to
increase its participation in training but in order for it to do so it needs
assistance to plan, establish and implement training.
Management of Education and Training
28.       Under Presidential Decree No. 34 of 1972, operational responsibility
for education and training is shared between the MEC, which is responsible for
general and vocational education, the MOM, which is responsible for specia-
lized and vocational training and the National Institute of Public Administra-
tion, which is responsible for staff training in conjunction with the Central
Offices for Education and Training (PUSDIKLATs) in each Ministry.
29.       The Role of the MOM.  The MOM has two Directorates General.  The
Directorate General of Manpower Development and Placement is responsible for
national manpower planning, vocational training to meet industrial employment
needs, the coordination of training provided by the private sector, the
development and implementation of employment policies and guidance and place-
ment services. The Directorate General of Industrial Relations, and
Development and Supervision of Working Conditions is responsible for all
aspects of industrial relations, and for industrial safety and health. The
MOM has a Regional Manpower Office in each province and district offices in
each district. The National and Regional Productivity Centers provide labor
productivity and supervisory training and act as advisers within the MOM and
in industry. The present training operations of the Ministry are largely
centralized, e.g. enrollment targets, training curricula, staffing and
financing are determined nationally by the central office. The regional
offices are responsible for recruitment and selection of trainees. The MOM
has recently established a National Training Council to provide policy advice
on training and to assist with planning, coordination and implementation of
training. It is at an early stage of work, assembling information on the
existing training system. A Regional Training Council is being established in
Surabaya, as a pilot project with ILO-UNDP support. Manpower planning for the



- 12 -
current five-year development plan comprises forecasts of employment and
occupation based on estimates of output growth by sector. The MOM carries out
surveys by region of industrial enterprises - covering employment, wages and
training - but little use appears to have been made of the data in the
planning of training.
Training Costs
30.       There is very little detailed information available on training
costs in Indonesia and it is difficult to identify and attribute actual
capital and current expenditure to training activities. However, on the basis
of budget allocations and training targets, the training provided by the BLKs
appears to be inexpensive. Information is also lacking on the costs of train-
ing in industry. Only a small proportion of firms appear to have training
budgets, and those budgets cannot easily be related to training outputs. The
labor market and manpower planning component of the project would address the
issue of monitoring training costs and relating costs to outputs to provide a
basis for future policy development.
Issues in Manpower Planning and Training
31.       Recognizing the importance of improving both productivity of indus-
try and employment prospects, there is an urgent need to strengthen the capa-
city of the MOM to establish appropriate training policies and systems and to
lead and coordinate manpower development and training in the public and
private sectors. The issues facing the MOM can be classified as follows.
First, there are weaknesses in the manpower planning and training management
systems. For example, the National Vocational Training Council needs to be
brought into effective operation and similar representative bodies established
at the provincial level, staff expertise should be strengthened and effective
manpower and training management information systems developed. Coordination
needs to be strengthened between the MOM, other ministries and the private
sector. Second, there is no national system for training. Little use is made
of the standard classification of occupations, there is an absence of national
training standards and little skills testing, and there is no formal
"apprenticeship" system in the sense of coordinated programs of training to
agreed standards involving both off-the-job and in-plant training. Third,
there is need for upgrading and improving the relevance of skills training.
There is very little specialist and advanced skills training, very little
skills upgrading in conjunction with employment needs, and a lack of supervis-
ory training. There is also an urgent need to develop MOM's capacity to
support the expansion of other forms of training, particularly in-plant
training, mobile training and training for self-employment, and to assemble
data about methods, outcomes and costs to provide the basis for long-term
policies and programs.
Government Strategy
32.       Government objectives under Repelita IV include the expansion of
technical education and vocational training in order to supply skilled man-
power to suppo._ Indonesia's policies of industrialization and increasing
exports and to enlarge employment opportunities. The Government's targets are



- 13 -
to double the enrollments in STMs, from 250,000 to 500,000 and in BLKs and
mobile training, from 80,000 to 170,000. The MOM is giving attention to the
expansion of training capacity by the construction and equipping of the 120
KLKs, developing more advanced and specialist training, making more e ficient
use of training resources and increasing participation of industry in
training. It is also introducing training for self-employment. The MOM has
drafted a Training Act which would provide a satisfactory legal framework to
assist it in the long term to promote the participation of industry in
training, introduce charges for training and other means of cost sharing and
establish skills standards and certification. The MOM is seeking Bank
assistance for the development and implementation of this strategy.
33.       Two UNDP-ILO projects:  the Indonesia Manpower Management and
Information System (IMMIS) Project, and the Employment Creation Strategy
Project are strengthening the MOM's capability in manpower planning. Another
UNDP-ILO technical assistance project is helping the MOM to develop the
Surabaya BLK as a model regional center. A Canadian-assisted (CIDA) project
to establish a BLK in Samarinda is nearing completion and a Japanese-aided
(Japanese International Cooperation Agency) Instructor Training Center has
just opened in Jakarta.
Experience with Past Lending
34.       Industrial skills development has been the focus of several edu-
cation and training projects. Credit 219-IND supported the establishment of
five centralized training workshops for practical training for students from
nearby secondary technical schools. Loan 1237-IND supported development of
additional centralized workshops as well as the establishment of the 17 voca-
tional training centers for the MOM. Credit 869-IND and Loan 2290-IND support
the establishment of a polytechnic system to train engineering technicians.
Loan 2258-IND is assisting in the upgrading of manpower in the Ministry of
Public Works. University development is supported by Loans 1904-IND and 2547-
IND, and the supply of high-level scientific and technological manpower by
Loan 2599-INDl. Support for the sector also covers agricultural training, non-
formal education, teacher training, textbook development and secondary
education. An OED Project Performance Audit Report prepared for Credit
219-IND (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stresses the importance
of: including fellowships for development of teachers and school
administrators; and appointing key staff for project implementation in a
timely manner. The Project Completion Report on Loan 1237-IND (May 31, 1985)
indicates as the main lessons: (a) the need to provide adequate technical
assistance for both project planning and implementation; (b) the importance of
the timely appointment and training of a sufficient number of staff; (c) the
need to monitor training outcomes and to give due regard to the quality of
skills training; and td) the importance of effective coordination of project
activities and implementation. The outcome of that project is a system of
well equipped training centers, but they lack well-trained and experienced
staff and their present training is focussed on short basic training programs
for unemployed youth, thus failing to meet other important training needs.



- 14 -
35.       In the light of a deterioration in implementation performance in the
education sector in FY84 and 85, the Bank and GOI have identified two
important factors contributing to poor implementation: (a) project managers
not being committed full-time to project implementation and (b) the lack of
effective support and monitoring of implementation at the Ministry level.
These findings, and the lessons from completed projects, have been taken into
account in project design, including the establishment and full-time staffing
of a Project Management Office, detailed preparation in advance of
negotiations, and advance commitment of staff for implementation.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
36.       Expansion of employment in manufacturing industry and of
opportunities for self-employment and activities in the informal sector, are
key elements in the Government's manpower and industrial policies. In
addition to training new entrants to the labor market there will be a
considerable need for upgrading the skills of existing workers to improve the
competitiveness of industry. In addition to upgrading its existing training
resources the Ministry needs to develop new cost-effective training and to
expand training by industry. The MOM is therefore seeking assistance for a
major program in upgrading of skills training and planning and management.
The proposed project would build on the Fourth Education Project, Loan 1237-
IND and would integrate and expand existing pilot projects. It would address,
in a comprehensive manner, the main issues in manpower planning and training,
particularly those relating to management and institution building, and to the
development of advanced, specialist and other training relevant to employment
needs. The project would focus on training for key occupations and priority
sectors of industry. Development of in-plant training by industry, mobile
training and training for the informal sector would cover only a limited
number of provinces but the outputs and costs would be monitored and evaluated
to provide the basis for subsequent large-scale development and expansion of
such training.
37.       An advance of US$383,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF), financed technical assistance to complete project planning. Throughout
project preparation close attention has been given to the determination of
priorities and to the implementation capacity of MOM in order to keep the
scope of the project within manageable bounds and avoid the implementation
problems encountered under Loan 1237-IND and other education sector
projects. The proposed project has been designed with particular emphasis
on: (a) the coordination of implementation action and budgets; (b) staffing
of the Project Management Office; (c) the timely provision of technical
assistance throughout implementation; (d) commitment by the Ministry of
appropriate staff resources to implement the project; and (e! close monitoring
by the MOM and the Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was identified and prepared by the MOM with assistance
from the Bank, the British Council and the ILO. Appraisal took place in July
1985 and negotiations were held in Washington from April 21 to 23, 1986. The



- 15 -
Government delegation was led by Mr. H. Tambunan, Director General of Manpower
Development and Placement, MOM. A Staff Appraisal Report, No. 5861-IND, is
being distributed separately. The main features of the project are summarized
in the Loan and Project Summary and supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
39.       The project, which would constitute the first phase of a long-term
development program, would focus on institutional development, the formulation
and implementation of new policies for management development and training by
the MOM and the upgrading of MOM's management and training systems. It would
contribute to expansion of employment by improving the competitiveness and
productivity of industry through improved skills of industrial manpower and by
providing training and other support for self-employment and che informal
sector. The project components would essentially strengthen and improve
existing structures. The proposed project would assist the MOM by financing
consultant services, staff training, civil works, equipment, furniture, and
project-related operating costs to: (a) strengthen labor market and manpower
planning information systems at national and regional levels; (b) improve the
MOM's training management systems and the management capability of the MOM's
senior and middle level national and regional staff; (c) establish national
and regional vocational training systems (including a joint industrial
vocational training system and occupational standards and certification);
(d) upgrade the MOM's skills training facilities and programs in the existing
33 medium and large vocational training centers, in accordance with empioyment
and industrial development needs; and (e) develop in selected provinces
support for in-plant training by industry, training for self-employment and
for the informal sector and mobile training.
Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information Systems (US$8.8 million,
excluding contingencies)
40.       Upgrading of Planning and Information Systems.  The labor market and
manpower planning information systems initiated under the ILO's IMMIS project
would be strengthened and improved, particularly at the regional level, to
provide efficient collection, analysis, dissemination and use of labor market,
employment and training data. The systems would assist central and regional
government to plan and implement manpower, employment and training policies
and programs, assist employers to recruit and develop a more efficient labor
force and provide individuals with better information about training oppor-
tunities and so improve their access to more fruitful employment. The MOM's
organization for manpower planning would be improved and its capacity to
coordinate manpower planning with other government departments would be
strengthened.
41.       In support of these objectives, training for staff of the MOM would
be provided through 60 man-years of fellowships for postgraduate training
overseas in labor economics and manpower planning and about 300 man-years of
local training, of which about 60 man-years would be in long courses and the
remainder in short specialist courses. The capacity for continued in-service
training would be strengthened by the provision of three man-years of local
training in training methodology. About 100 man-years of local training would



- 16 -
also be provided for manpower planning staff of other government departments.
Ten man-years of both international and domestic consultant services would be
provided to 1ssist with the design and implementation of the systems and the
training of staff. Computing facilities and software would be provided in the
regions to complement the system established in the MOM under the IMMIS project.
42.       Labor Market Information and Planning Operations.  The operations of
the MOM's directorates of program development and manpower supply and
placement and the regional manpower departments would increase considerably as
the manpower planning and labor market information systems are established and
expanded. The project would provide the operating costs, including the hiring
of survey staff, design and printing of survey instruments, staff travel and
subsistence, analysis of results, printing and publication of data,
dissemination of labor market information and follow-up and monitoring of
outcomes of training programs. Outcomes would include improved preparation
and implementation of manpower policies and programs for Repelita V and reli-
able comparative data on training costs and outcomes. The program has been
planned in detail for the first year and in outline for subsequent years.
Progress would be reviewed each year and the annual program and budget agreed
in advance with the Bank.
Training Management and the National Training System (US$17.7 million
excluding contingencies)
43.       This component would include:  (a) strengthening of the management
of training and related staff development; (b) establishment of a national
training system; and (c) establishment of occupational and skills standards
and skills testing.
44.       Strengthening of the Management of Training.  Management of training
by the MOM would be improved by rationalization of organization, staff train-
ing and the introduction of improved systems particularly for key functional
areas of planning, development of training programs, allocation of resources,
and monitoring of outcomes. PUSDIKLAT, which would administer staff training,
would be strengthened by an increase in staffing, from 69 to 132 by 1990191,
and by staff training and consultant assistance. Computing and other equip-
ment would be provided for the MOM's central and regional offices and for
PUSDIKLAT. The efficiency of utilization of BLK accommodation and training
equipment would be improved through the services of experienced physical
facilities planners and managers. Consultant services would also be provided
to support the Project Management Office and to assist the planning of future
development. In total, the project would finance about 15 man-years of
international and 17 man-years of domestic consultant services to assist in
the upgrading of the management systems and the related in-service training of
staff. About 120 man-years of fellowships would be provided for overseas
training and 80 man-years for local management training. Schedules of
consultant services and training were agreed during appraisal. Staff
development will be a critical factor in the project's successful
implementation. At negotiations the Government providet assurances that
annual staff development programs would be implemented, after consultation
with the Bank, for key organizational units and staff, and counterpart teams
would be appointed in accordance with such plans.



- 17 -
45.       Establishment of a National Training System.  The project would
strengthen the National Training Council's capacity to formulate policy
advice and prepare and monitor manpower development and training plans by the
establishment and training of a small full-time administrative and technical
secretariat. Based on the experience gained through the pilot project at
Surabaya, Regional Training Councils would be established in all other pro-
vinces in stages by the end of the project. The project would provide 60 man-
months of fellowships for overseas study visits by staff and Council mem-
bers. The present unstructured apprenticeship system would be supplemented by
a Joint Industrial Vocational Training (JIVT) scheme designed, established,
and administered jointly by the MOM and industry. Training would normally
extend over a one to two year period and involve training off the job as well
as in industry. The project would finance the cost of 24 man-months of
international and 30 man-months of domestic consultants and 60 man-months of
fellowships for overseas staff training. The project would also cover the
project-related operating costs.
46.       Establishment of Occupational and Skills Standards and Skills
Testing. The existing occupational standards would be reviewed, revised and
expanded. Skills standards would be established in selected priority indus-
trial sectors for key occupations. Skills tests would be designed and
implemented and a certification scheme set up. Test facilities would be
established in BLKs in at least four pilot provinces. The project would
finance 90 man-months each of international and domestic consultants to assist
with the design and implementation of standards and tests and the establish-
ment of the test facilities, ten man-years of local training, adaptation of
buildings at the selected BLKs to house the facilities and provision of
equipment and operating costs. By the completion of the project a
satisfactory testing system will have been developed for introduction
nationally.
Upgrading of Training Systems, Facilities and Programs (US$40.9 million,
excluding contingencies)
47.       Vocational Training Programs (BLK).  To upgrade the quality of
training, advanced and specialist skills and skills upgrading programs would
be developed in about 30 larger BLKs. Training programs related to the needs
of regional industry would be developed on a modular basis at basic, advanced
and specialist levels for key occupations in selected mAnufacturing industries
and in construction. By the end of the project about 20,000 trainees are
expected to be enrolled annually in a six-month or longer advanced or special-
ist skills module. The project would finance a limited amount of building
adaptation to existing centers to house specialist facilities. No new centers
would be constructed but the efficiency of utilization of buildings would be
increased with double shift operations. Supplementary equipment would be
provided to enable the development of advanced and specialist training.
Procurement of equipment would proceed in stages in accordance with the
program of rationalization and efficient utilization of physical facilities.
The project would provide 30 man-years each of international and domestic con-
sultant services to assist with the analysis of training needs, and with the
design, implementation and monitoring of the revised training modules and in-
service training of staff. Project-related operating costs would also be
included.



- 18 -
48.       Instructor Training.  The project would establish four regional
instructor training facilities in existing BLKs and upgrade existing
instructor facilities in six other BLKs. Each new facility would have a
capacity of about 100 places and each would require 10-15 well-trained
staff. Training programs of 24 months would be developed, inclading 6 months
training in industry. Short upgrading courses would be developed for existing
staff. The instructor training would be integrated with the training provided
at the Japanese assisted center. The project would finance building
adaptation and equipment for the new centers. Eight man-years each of
international and domestic consultant services would be provided to assist
with the design and implementation of the instructor training programs.
Fifteen man-years of overseas fellowships would be provided for training of
instructor training staff. The project would also fund incentive schemes, on
a pilot basis, to attract well-qualified staff from industry as part-time
instructors. About 200 man-years of overseas training fellowships would be
provided for about 100 instructors and senior instructors in programs of
training and industrial experience. Criteria for selection would include
satisfactory completion of preliminary language training for which 120 man-
years of local fellowships would be included in the project. Some 2,000 man-
years of local training would also be provided for BLK instructors.
49.       Upgrading of In-plant Training, Supervisory Training and
Productivity. The project would establish Industrial Training Development
Units (ITDUs) in six provinces to help industry plan and carry out in-plant
training. The project would upgrade the skills of several thousand workers in
key industries, strengthen links between industry and BLKs, and provide a
basis for long-term development of in-plant training.  Assistance would also
be provided to the BLKs in cooperation with Regional Productivity Centers and
ITDUs in five provinces to design and establish part-time and full-time
supervisory and productivity training and provide related consultancy
services.  The project would provide 19 man-years of international and 21 man-
years of domestic consultant services to implement the scheme. To support the
on-the-job training uf training officers and the related training of ITDU and
productivity center 3taff there would be 20 man-years of overseas training and
assignments. Training equipment would be supplied to the selected training
centers for temporary use in the firms. The project would also provide part
of the other direct costs of training and consultancy services, for example:
training materials, honoraria of training staff, travel, testing. Costs and
outcomes would be monitored and arrangements introduced to recover from
industry part of the costs of providing the services of the ITDUs and
productivity centers.
50.       Training for Self-employment and the Informal Sector.  The project
would improve the system of training for self-employment, including entrepren-
eurship and management, and for the informal sector. The project, which would
be coordinated with existing and planned activities of a similar nature, would
upgrade the training and consultancy capacity of the productivity centers and
the BLKs. The project would provide five man-years of international and eight
man-years of domestic consultant services, 36 man-months of fellowships for
overseas study visits and training, a limited amount of equipment and
materials and related operating costs.



- 19 -
51.       Mobile Training.  The pruiect would upgrade existing mobile training
programs to cover industrial training in selected occupations in urban and
rural areas in at least eight provinces. Arrangements would include the use
of industrial facilities and rented accommodation, with supplementary
equipment and training materials provided by the BLK. In addition to the
mobile training the project would initiate "open" training whereby training
would be delivered by tutors under the supervision of the BLK staff. Mobile
training programs using different delivery methods would be designed,
implemented and monitored so that the outcomes and findings could be used as a
basis for the planning of long-term investment. The project would provide six
man-years of international and eight man-years of domestic consultants, 36
man-months of fellowships for overseas study visits and training, supple-
mentary equipment for use in the 8 centers and the operating costs.
Long-term Development
52.       The project would provide the institutional and staff development
which would be critical for the long-term development and expansion of
training. The management capability of the MOM would be improved,
particularly for the planning and development of training, and the allocation
and efficient utilization of resources. There would be little addition to the
Ministry's physical training facilities but the utilization of those resources
would be improved and the training would be upgraded in line with the needs of
industry. In the longer term the Ministry's training capacity is expected to
need to be increased and it will be equally important to increase the
participation of industry in the provision of training. This project would
upgrade the training by MOM, and establish systems and effective training
programs for in-plant, informal sector and mobile training in a iimiced
selection of provinces and occupations. The expansion of training would be
prcvided under later phases of development based on the experience of this
initial project. The evaluation of training outcomes, tracer studies of
trainees and the assembly of data on comparative costs would therefore be an
important part of project implementation. This evaluation would be carried
out through operations under the labor market and manpower information and
planning component in conjunction with the monitoring and evaluation
activities of the directorates and central offices of the Directorate General
of Manpower Development and Placement and coordinated by the monitoring and
evaluation staff in the Project Management Office. The project would also
address the issue of recovery of training costs. The feasibility and form of
financial incentives for training by industry to be introduced in Indonesia
would be established through consultant advice and study of training levies,
grants and other financial incentives in other countries. Strengthening of
in-plant training would lead to more effective use of indust-ial resources and
facilities to develop and expand training. Fees would be introduced for
specialist, advanced and upgrading training courses.
53.       Industry would be closely involved with the development of training
through membership of the Regional Vocational Training Councils and participa-
tion through working groups in the development of training programs and train-
ing materials and in the establishment and implementation of training stan-
dards and tests. The links between the training centers and industry would
also be strengthened by joint training schemes and by provision of industrial



- 20 -
training for BLK staff. The project would also provide a basis for drafting
the decrees to implement the proposed Training Act which is now in draft and
which includes provisions to enable the Government to require industry to
increase its participation in training.
Project Implementation and Management
54.       The Secretary General of the MOM would have overall responsibility
for the project and for interministerial coordination. The Director General
of Manpower Development and Placement would be responsible for project execu-
tion. Responsibility for the implementation of project activities would be
assigned to the relevant directorates, centers and divisions of the MOM. Each
unit would be responsible for the preparation of annual plans and budget, and
the implementation and reporting of project activities. The development
budget would be allocated to these units. Designated staff in each unit would
have specific full-time project responsibilities. A Project Director's Office
has been established in the Directorate General of Manpower Development and
Placement with a full-time project director and full-time heads of units to
coordinate project activities and loan administration. The Project Director's
Office would be responsible for the central budget and accounts, central
procurement of goods and services, support and services to facilitate
implementation, monitoring and evaluation and loan administration including
disbursement and reporting to the Bank. The appointment of key staff of the
Project Director's Office (i.e. the project director, treasurer, manpower
planning and training area coordinators, staff development coordinator,
procurement officer and administrative head) would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan.
55.       The project would be impLemented over a period of six years.  The
implementation period appears feasible given the advanced stage of project
preparation and the large amount of technical assistance. Project
implementation would be facilitated and monitored through: (a) an
Interministerial Steering Committee, including senior representatives of
BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance, meeting quarterly, and chaired by the
Secretary General of MOM; and (b) a MOM Technical Committee, comprising
directors and other heads responsible for project implementation, together
with representatives of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance, meeting monthly
and chaired by the Director General of Manpower Development and Placement.
Implementation would be monitored by the Bank through the submission by the
MOM of quarterly progress reports and supervision missions. The schedule for
implementation of the project was revie-wed and agreed with the MOM. The
location by province of principal project activities was also agreed.
Schedules have been agreed for monitoring critical implementation activities
and dates and for monitoring outcomes. Both would be updated annually and
constitute basic monitoring instruments for the MOM and the Bank. Budget
allocations related to the agreed schedule of activities for the first year,
1986/87, have been agreed with the MOM and BAPPENAS, and during negotiations
assurances were obtained that annual plans and budgets would be prepared in
consultation with the Bank.



- 21 -
Technical Assistance and Staff Development
56.       The project would provide substantial programs of staff devel-
opment. In total there would be about 420 man-years of overseas training and
about 2,700 man-years of training in Indonesia. The overseas training program
is considered to be the minimum required to achieve the necessary level of
staff development and well within the capacity of the MOM to absorb: it is
intended to supplement this with a similar program financed from bilateral
assistance. The overseas training programs would be administered by the Staff
Development Unit of the Project Director's Office, in close cooperation with
PUSDIKLAT. Fellowship candidates would be required to undertake preliminary
language training in MOM facilities in the Jakarta BLK and other BLKs. This
would be followed by up to six months full-time study in an external course.
The project would provide four man-years of consultant services to set up
language training, supporting material and operating costs. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that the criteria and procedures for selection
of fellowships would be satisfactory to the Bank. To complement staff
development, there would about 106 man-years of service by international
consultants and 112 man-years by domestic consultants to analyze existing
systems and to assist with the development and implementation of new policies,
systems and procedures for planning, management and training.
57.       Schedules and terms of reference for training and consultants'
services and packaging for technical assistance were agreed before
negotiations and confirmed by government central agencies, i.e. BAPPENAS,
Ministry of Finance and SEKNEG.
58.       In view of the critical importance of the assignment of MOM staff to
act as counterpart teams on a full-time basis for all consultants, the MOM has
identified key project staff by name and the composition of counterpart teams,
whose duties will be full time on relevant project activities.
59.       The staff development and training program for the first year has
been agreed. The MOM has identified staff for the award of fellowships in the
first year and arranged for their language training and training placements.
A major input of technical assistance in the first year would be provided by
the project funded expansion and continuation of the UNDP/ILO East Java
Regional (Surabaya) project; the draft program for this regional subproject
has been reviewed and agreed.
Status of Project Preparation
60.       The project was prepared with technical assistance financed by a
Bank loan under the PPF. Schedules for appointment of consultants, draft
bidding documents including terms of reference, draft short lists of
consultant firms and schedules of training fellowships and programs related to
each project activity have been agreed. Key counterparts have been assigned
and cnunterpart teams identified. The East Java Regional program, to be
provided under an expansion of the UNDP-ILO Surabaya project has been agreed
and these activities will continue from the beginning of the project.  Other
consultants are expected to be in post by September 1986.  Candidates for
training overseas in 1986/87 would start language training locally in April



- 22 -
1986. Specifications for computers and related equipment have been prepared
and draft master lists drawn up for small tools and replacement of obsolete
equipment. The bidding documents for the first phase of equipment procurement
would be available in January 1987. Construction, which would be a minor part
of the project and take the form mainly of adaptation of existing buildings,
would begin by mid-1987. In order to avoid delays in implementation during
the early stages of the project, the Project Director's Office has been
established with agreed organization and staffing, the project director has
been selected and the government development budget for the first year's
activities has been agreed.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$91.1 million
equivalent. Base costs are estimated at January 1986 prices. Duties and
taxes on civil works, equipment and services are estimated as about
US$3.2 million Project-related operating costs directly attributable to
project activities and allocated within the MOM's development budget are
included in the project and amount to about 23% of project costs. The
estimates and unit costs were agreed with the MOM on the basis of actual
current costs of comparable activities.
62.       The foreign exchange component of US$51.0 million, represents about
56% of the total estimated cost. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
allowed for construction, equipment and materials, furniture and operating
costs and 5% for technical assistance. Price contingencies, which are equiva-
lent to about 25% of base costs plus physical contingencies were calculated in
accordance with the implementation schedule and the following expected average
annual increases: local - 1986-90, 6.0%; 1991 and beyond, 4.5%; foreign -
1986-87, 7.0Z; 1988, 7.5%; 1989, 7.7%; 1990, 7.6%; 1991 and beyond, 4.5%. The
proposed Bank loan of US$58.1 million would finance 66% of the project costs
excluding duties and taxes. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million
would be provided to cover project expenditures incurred after appraisal, i.e.
from November 30, 1985. These include start-up costs of the Project
Director's Office, local instructor training and preparation of the first
group of staff to be trained overseas.
Annual Costs
63.       The annual total project development cost of about US$13 million
would represent the major part of the Ministry's current development budget
for training, but it would replace existing activities. The average counter-
part budget of about Rp 6 billion per year is reasonable and acceptable even
in the face of expected budget stringency. The routine budget for training
activities for 1986/87 is approximately Rp 6.3 billion, an increase of about
30X over that of 1985/86 due mainly to increased personnel costs. The long-
term effect of the project on the routine budget would be an increase of
approximately Rp 2 billion per year for training materials, travel and other
support costs for the upgraded training. This increase would be more than
balanced by reduction in the development budget on the completion of project
activities. A significant part of the future routine costs would be carried
by fees charged for specialists and upgrading training for industrial
employees.



- 23 -
Procurement
64.       Consultant services would be arranged in packages procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Training overseas would be arranged for
groups of staff using the services of international and national agencies.
Civil works contracts, for adaptation and small extensions would cost less
than US$1.0 million each. Based on experience in Indonesia, contracts of this
size in dispersed sites would not be attractive to foreign construction
companies; therefore, the contracts of total value of about US$4 million would
be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Equipment required
for specialist and advanced skills and computers would be grouped to the
extent possible in packages to facilitate bulk procurement and packages
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (estimated value US$12.4 million) would
be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would be extended a
margin of preference of 15Z of the CIF costs of competing imports or the
actual custom duties, whichever is lower. Furniture and equipment packages
for small hand tools and other small items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 (estimated value US$1.5 million) and which, because of content, are
not expected to interest foreign suppliers, would be awarded on the basis of
LCB advertised in accordance with government procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Other equipment arranged in packages not exceeding
US$25,000 in value and aggregating less than US$0.75 million equivalent would
be purchased on the basis of quotations from a minimum of three suppliers.
Books, computer software and other instructional materials would be procured
through direct purchase, after negotiations for the lowest price. A breakdown
of project expenditure by procurement category is given in the table below.
Prior Bank review of bidding documents and proposed contract awards would be
required for all contracts for equipment awarded on the basis of ICB,
estimated to cost about US$12 million (84Z of the value).



- 24 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total costs
including
Procurement method         all contin-
Ezpenditure category                   ICB       LCB        Other /a gencies /b
Civil works                              -        4.0         -            4.0
(0.9)                   (0.9)
Equipment, furniture and               12.1        1.5       0.8          14.4
materials                            (8.0)      (0.9)     (0.4)         (9.3)
Consultants /c                           -          -       26.0          26.0
(23.4)       (23.4)
Overseas training fellowships            -          -       16.2          16.2
(16.2)       (16.2)
Local training fellowships               -          -        8.3           8.3
(8.3)        (8.3)
Operating costs                          -          -       22.2          22.2
t_-)         (-)
Total                          12.1       5.5       73.5          91.1
(8.0)     (1.8)    (48.3)         (58.1)
/a   Other procurement includes:  recruitment of consultants, placement of
staff in training, and project related operating costs, e.g. payments of
honoraria, materials, local travel costs.
;b   Values in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan includ-.ng
price and physical contingencies.
/c   Includes project preparation advance.
Disbursements
65.       The proposed loan of US$58.1 million would be disbursed over a peri-
od of seven years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 251 of the
cost of civil works; (b) 100Z of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, furni-
ture and materials, 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equip-
ment, furniture and materials, 65Z of the cost of imported equipment, fur-
niture and materials procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of consultants and
fellowships; and (d) refunding of the Project Preparation Advance. To the
extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of
the proceeds of the loan. Disbursements for civil works, miscellaneous



- 25 -
equipment and furniture items, books, computer software and other
instructional materials, and local fellowship training, in packages up to
US$25,000, would be based on statements of expenditure. Supporting documents
would be retained and made available for review by visiting Bank missions.
All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
Reporting and Audit
66.       Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by the Project
Director's Office. The accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank. The Units concerned would pro-
vide to the Bank within nine months of the end of the GOI fiscal year, state-
ments reflecting the financial performance and position of the project
together with independent auditor's reports including separate audit of
accounts reLating to disbursement against statements of expenditure. Six
months after the Closing Date, MOM would provide to the Bank a project com-
pletion report covering all project components.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The main benefits would be (a) improved labor market and manpower
information and planning systems at national and provincial levels; (b) more
effective management of training and establishment of a national training
system - occupational standards, skills standards and tests and a joint
industrial vocational training scheme; (c) upgrading of basic training and
establishment of a capacity for training about 20,000 people each year in key
skills and occupations at advanced levels and in specialist skills;
(d) improved efficiency in utilization of training resources; and (e) develop-
ment and improvement in the key areas of in-plant industrial training, train-
ing for self-employment and the informal sector and mobile training. The
project would also include arrangements for monitoring of costs and outcomes
to provide experience on which to base later substantial long-term develop-
ments.
68.       The main risk is possible delay in implementation.  To lessen this
risk detailed consideration was given to matching the project scope to the
resources and implementation capacity of MOM and to the arrangements for
project management and monitoring. In addition, arrangements have been agreed
for continuing the existing East Java regional program of technical assistance
through loan financing of an extension to the UNDP-ILO project to ensure the
presence of consultants from the outset of the project. Project activities
have been designed in detail and agreement reached on a system for close Bank
monitoring, including detailed review of annual plans and budgets.



- 26 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Presidet.t
Attachments
May 1, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 27                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
INDOEIA                -  CIAL INlDICATON DT   r
IUhIA                                *     I   GROUPS (HEILSTD AVENAGIS)
HOST                      OlRn r    U TG inSnATn) /b
r           la~~NDoLE DNO          MIDOK IxON
19isL       imot 1  unnath          ASIA & PACIFIC          LAT. AU *CA   CAR
AIMA ('t110e0 Nq. -0
TOTAL                             1919.3      1919.3      1919.3
SNIaILTKALL                        296.3       307.1       315.5
- 3  CAPI         )                     ..          ..        560.0            1031.1                    1675.9
CEiLOGRAIU OP OIL UIIVAKUT)         66.0        98.0       191.0             566.a                     993.6
OL1ss1 am m  umnS
POPULATION*NID-IKAA (THOUSANDS)  94660.0   136201.0   1556t9.0
URNS PoPUATIO tZ OP TOTAL)          14.6        17.1        24.1              35.9                      67.7
PLTIOncnczrous
POPULATION IN TZAR 2000 (HILL)                           212.0
STATISAR  POPULATION (HILL)                              368.0
POPULATION    -                                            1.6
POPULATION DUwSIT
PER  Sq. um.                      49.3        60.5        61.1             386.9                      48.0
PE  SQ. Mi. SRI. LAND            319.3       378.4       413.4             1591.2                     91.1
POPULAION SE  STNRUCE (I)
0-14 YU                          40.7        44.0        40.6               38.2                     38.5
1544 nRS                          56.2        53.4        55.8              57.7                      57.1
65 AND A092                        3.0         2.5         3.5               3.5                       4.2
POPULATION GOtM RATE (C)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.0         2.2                2.3                      ZA
URA                                3.7         3.6         4.3               4.1                       3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE CiPn TInS)         44.2        41.0        34.0              30.1                      30.9
CRUDE DuET  NATE (PR Taws)          22.9        17.6        12.8               9.4                       8.0
CROSS REPRODHUC0  aT                 2.7         2.7         2.1                1.9                      2.0
rIIXLY PLAIUIM
A           T0RS ANNUAL (TIOUS)    ..        181.1      3051.0 Ic
USERS (C 07 MIRRIED ON)            ..          ..         58.0              56.5                      45.3
mOD a surrm
ItER OP P000 PR. PER CAPIT
(1969-71-100)                       93.0       102.0       123.0             124.4                     109.6
PR CAPrIA SPiLT OF
CALEZS CZ OP REqUIREUTS)         79.0        92.0       112.0              115.7                    113.2
P.ROTENS  (CRAMS PU DAT)          34.0        41.0        53.0              60.3                      69.4
OF WICK ANIKAL AND PUSE           6.0         6.0         7.0 Id           14.1                      34.2
CILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          21.9        16.1        13.0               7.2                       4.8
LIFE  EEMCE. AT mIRTH CYEARS)       41.2        47.0        53.5              60.6                      64.8
INFANT 31. RATE (PER INCUS)        150.0       121.0       101.0              64.9                      59.7
ACCSS TO SAFE WATR (rPOP)
TOL                                ..          3.0        23.0              46.0                      65.3
URN                                ..         10.0        40.0              57.6                      76.5
RURAL                              ..          1.0        18.0              37.1                      ".2
ACCESS 10  XCRETA DlSPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
oTAL                               ..         15.0        23.0              50.1                      5S.3
URA                                ..         19.0        20.0              52.9                      73.4
RU                                 ..         14.0        24.0              44.7                      25.5
POPULATON PEE PHSICIAN           46780.0    26510.0    11530.0              7751.7                    1909.7
POP.    NURSING PERSON            4510.0 /f  7680.0       2300.0 li         2464.8                     808.2
POP. PE HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1650.0      1720.0 to         1112.1                     362.0
URBAN                            250.0         ..        700.0 7           651 A                     422.0
RURAL                              ..          ..       3160.0 A          2596.9                    2716.7
A5510X5 PER HOSPrTAL MD              ..          ..          ..               41.1                      27.5
AVERSE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
UR8AN                              4.9         5.3
IURAL                              4.3         4.7
AVERCS NO. oF PzRsONsIROCH
TOTAL                              ..          1.5
URBAN                              ..          1.6
RURAL                              ..          1.5
PERCErTACE OF DIELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBA                               ..          ..
RDuL.                                          .           .                 .                         .



ANNEX I
-28-                                 Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONCSIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SXEET
INDONSUIA                          REFCRZNCC GROUPS (WCIGHTCD AVCRACCS) /
HOST                   (OOST RCENT ESTIMATE) lb
RCENlT          NIDDLE INCOMB        IIIDLE INCONE
1960L      197O!! ZST5IATELk      ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMERICA S CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLUNT RATIOS
PRIMARYi  TOTAL                 71.0        77.0      100.0             100.7                   106.7
rALC                  86.0       83.0       106.0            104.4                   108.5
FEMALE                58.0       71.0       94.0              97.2                   104.6
SECONDART: TOTAL                 6.0        15.0       33.0              47.8                   44.2
MALE                  10.0       20.0        38.0             50.6                    42.7
FEHALZ                 3.0       10.0       27.0              44.8                    44.9
VOCATIONAL (t oF SECONDARY)       20.4        22.1       13.9              18.4                   13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATXO
PRIM                            39.0        29.0       29.0              30.4                    29.9
SECDNDAXY                        14.0       13.0       16.0              22.2                    16.7
PASSENGER CARS/TMOUSAND POP        1.1        2.1         4.4 lC           10.1                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THIOSAND POP       7.2       21.9       131.2             172.9                  328.3
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP          0.1        0.8        22.6             5B.S                    112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENAL
INTEREST") CIRCULAUION
PER THWSAND POPULAION            11.0         ..        14.9              65.3                   81.1
CNMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCZ/CAPITA      2.8         ..         1.0 /c           3.4                     2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TWUS)        34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FINLE (PERCET                   27.8        30.9       29.3              33.6                    23.6
A*RCULTURE (PERCET)             75.0        66.0       58.0 /C           52.2                    31.4
INUSTRY (PERCT)                  8.0        10.0       12.0 IC           17.9                    24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                           36.7        35.4       35.0              38.9                    33.5
MALE                            54.2        49.5       49.6              50.8                    51.3
PEKALE                          20.0        21.6       20.4              26.8                    15.9
ECONIC DEPENDENCI RATIO            1.2         1.3        1.3               1.1                     1.3
1 DISZTXO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIE B
HIGHEST 52 OF NOUSEHOLDS          .          .-        23.5 /1
RIGHEST 20 OF  US'l.OWS          ..        ..         49.4              8.O0
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         ..         6.6 7            6.4
LOS 40 OF  USEOLDS                ..         ..        16.4              15.5
PovYr Tr  GROrS
ESTI7MTED ABSOLUTE POVERT INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPXTA)
URBA                             ..        124.0 /b   124.0 /h           ..                     288.3
RURAL                                      106.0 Th    106.0 7;         151.9                   185.3
LSTIUED RELATIVE POVERTY LICME
LVL  CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                            ..         ..        119.0 /h          177.9                   519.8
RURAL                            ..          ..        98.0 7;;         164.7                   359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVZETY INCM  LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                            ..         51.0 /b    26.0 /h           23.5
RURAL                            ..         59.07      66 .0 71         37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for eah inldicator are population-weighted ariitbtc mean.  COvrae of countrem
among the indicator. depends on availabilty of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unles othbarwis noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data fOr 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Eatate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; IL 1976; /h 1980 price.
JUNE, 1985



-29-                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 paseo
DdONS OF SOCIaL WCAWM
NmA  ug im 4dam dwa. t              allyJ upi i motau_iw _ knd Mi1t sodal be _t  tmy y   eot wbi_ammIIUy
comparablabaum of ibm uk of mWadaibdhddamidom an  oommbyad hfdlamtounvium aail=wtwmmalm  b aa  ha a a. oauidmu.muM to
ila    iaofumltud. ad_cu _ t. ad cbscua   ea mmodlam.o banmomul.
Ts m A     oupa a (I) d_um  cry p*   do  eib jct mummd(2)a) co _ py withacauwbighravmp             ibm ib coutry
Wrongp of dosbjab  comy (.map for 'Hib l_anne Oil EBpomui" grow wham M"Mlioun Noh AMi md MIl East' aIs udo  bmmummofsrou
msoculiuwl _aUi.l In db  I Mpup dam  aw  a . ne_ pOPtiaos waihi a,Ibmsic  m f_ _athdiuor *ad shows _ly wba maiy
ofdbcoutrii a Vow basdt for tot law. SInhe ibdw ovap ofcoum  amonte lndmpmadso.bm avaiabit  daa ami Is un udmri.
cauton ust bm.mcud sauin d iamoo ladd or 1c auuu. t'bmmavwapemmo  uoul blacopaa i* valum of. ldimacrat a td-eao_
imuomm mum beawan~op
ARLA (thousand sqknL)                  GCm* An* Jta (par rheaJd-Number of live births in the year
teed-Total suface arm compninig land area and inabd water;   per th and of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cm* DGmeh Awe (pwr t_)-Number or death in the year
*demkinal-2htimate of agrcturl are used temporaily or     per thoustd of mnd-year populam  1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
pemnnaemdy for crops. pasures, market and kitchen grden or to  Gmss R _bpwdi  Rat-Average number of daughter a woman
he fallow, 1960, 1970 nd 1962 datu.                          wil bear in ber normal reproductive period if she e
pmet agespecif ktrdity rtes; uually 1-yer av e endiug
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current     in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market price, calculated by same conversion method as World  F       P                Amed (thuusa)-Annual num-
Bank AtAw (196143 basis); 1983 data.                         ber of accpos of birth-control devices under auspices of naional
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparnt                 family planning program.
consumption of commercial prinmry energy (coal od lignite.   Fiuy Phvis    -Uswm (pwastof .jmw d w.umea-The pen-
petroeum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tale of mar.ed wome of child-bearing aC wbo are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose busxnds are practcing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                   of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. althougb ror
some countries contraceptive usae is measurd ror other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                               groups.
Totaf hplri.Mu.  "- Yew (thmuAdsj-As of July 1l 1960.1970.   FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1963 data.
Cr5.. Pepomkria (prrcear of roeaI)-Ratio of urb,an to total    Iu. .fF.de doPrCaia(1-1-Ijnexfpr
captas annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: differenmt definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes anmal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counties: 1960.*1970. and 1983 data.    ldude prmary commodie (e.g. sugae  instead of sugar)
_updt  h*cfiw                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. cofee and tea are
ftlario  in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  exduded); they comps cereals. root crops. publ   oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Sutrting with information on  vwegetbs fruit nuts. suica  and sgr  bees livesoc  and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rtes. and  livestock products. Aegg4 te production of each country is based
international migation in the base year 19S0. tFe  paumerst  on national average producer price weights; 196165. 1970. and
were projected at Ave-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1932 data.
.ssumpdions until the population became stationary.          Per CWta Snply efCalbks (percew afreq1rm_ rnmar)-Comput-
Stationary populaton-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period. while agpeific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
crtility rates have simultanously remained it replacemnxt level  uon. imports less export  and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net rproduction rate - 1. In such a population. the birtb rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of rertility  age and sex distribution of population and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement klvel.                                   waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Moientum-Is the tendency for population growth to  Pkr Capi Sppy .of  weien (grans per dayi-Protem content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-leve fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproducUon rate has reached  as above. Requirenents for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentun of a population in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace.  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                    75 grains of total protein and 23 gnras of animal protein as an
*p-Iad   De.t*u                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-yea. population per square kilometer (100 bec  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             Per Caparein Supply &on Auidmamd Pus-Protetn supply
Per sq.m. agrkicdul lAnd-Computed as above for agricultural  of foodderived from animals and pulses in grans per day. 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                        1970 and 1977 data.
FbpuLuie Aze Struaire (percei)-Chuldren (0-14 years). work-  CAii (dez 14) Death Rae (per Mouruamd)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-4 yearsm). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  childrn aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.           group in a given year. For most developing countres data deTived
PopClmrien Gmwl  Rate (perentt-oAnn-Annual growthr tes of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALH
Peptm  Grox  th Ra  (percrue-haaAnnual growth rates          Lfe Ezpecsacy at Mpt (yewn)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. .nd 1970-83 data.  infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality For all people



- 30- _ANNE[ I
Page 4 of 6 pages
at   dm  of of its bh w    go say the -  throughout i[t Uk lfei-macher Radi - P.Lry,. oJd aconiku-Total studW  on.
1960 1970 and 1963 dU.                                        rold i pdrimy ad secondary kvel divided by numbm  or
hw          p  Rt (fR r uu    dNumb  of infat who di          taces zi th  rr0ponn kveL
befowWis an oew of aper thousa  live birth in a lvn
yar. 190. 1970 An  1913 data                                  CI    ijO N
A     s SO  lie (Pmwr.           . W, -E        wan, _        hsameq Ci a  (per _i_esmpe.          -        r car an-
_.d-Nuber of people (ta ubn and ru) wit rmsown                p    motor cans m g  ms than eight prosm aldude  ranbul-
aom  to s   watr apply (includes urae  sfae waus or             chs         d military vddcL
ntated but unconosa  wat  mh = that from prtecd                |   A          (p                       typ  of irars
boreho. qmpr and snitary wvib) as peentes of their .          for rao broadcat to general pubic per thousd of popuatn;
dve populations. In n urbu am  a pubc fountain or sador       excludes un-cad rivers i countrie  and i    yes when
oausbeon wthinranable ai   o at house. In y          -          stnl of rdio ea w  as  effmt dat for roaent you my
_      Yowibk aor woud imply tat te  housewife  -mmbrs of the
bourdbold do not have to *pmd a dbpmportiou pan ofdieday      TVhaiuep (Pr         ndue civau for broadcast
houfethion         to sena    sro     o     pt ,     d            n    pubbc per thousand popuin; ecIudes unlcnsd TV
Ain   to the r4mi     (wa  ud.f                               receivers in omrris and in yena whn registration of TV se wa
and nsnnl-Number of people (totaL urbn. and mral) srved by
excrta disposal as pecetage of their respective populaons     A     pr    Ca       (lw dp               Sb    t  a
Excmeu dposl may include the collection and disposaL with or  age cimulation of 'daiy gene  int  newwspperW defind as a
without treatment, of human excret and waste-waer by water-   Pewdia pubicaon devoted pnnarilyto w    roing Fend  n
borne systems or the ue of pit privies and similar installations.  It is co red to bhe 'ddy" if it appea at km four t_e a wee.
fPi.lae per Ph       -IF PpultaDon divided by number of prac-  Cat   Am_ AahndLwe p  Capita Fe Yea_-BRsd on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical shool at university level.    number of tckets sold durng the yr. incduding admiso  to
hgwiatie. per Abrdft  Pew-Pbpulation divided by nuber of      drivin cinems and mobile nite.
pctng  mle and feomle graduate nurms. assistnt nurses.
pracl naure and nursig auxiliari.                             L        FORCE
Prpuai pff Hospil Br-40al  men ed  Va--Po  N                  TW Laior Awce (_hoummis)-Economiucally acive persos. in-
(rota  urban, and rural dvided by their respective number o   clududig armed forc  and unemployed but excluding houswives.
(wta  urbii.and   mO dvidd byther repwtie iumbc of sutdents. etc.. covering populatiom of ail ages Definitions; in
hospiul beds avaiable in public and privae general and speialrved    counts  et com          e. pon0.        1    ata.
hospitab and rehabilitation  erntem Hospitals are establishments  anous countries arc not compabk 1960.1970 and 1983 data
permanetly staled by at kast one physiciatn. Esablishments prov-  Fain  (p rCaUi-'Female labor fore as percentage of totl labor
iding principally castodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. indude health and mdcal centers not permanendy stffed  Ap rcuitw (perceat)-Labor fore in frmg foresty. huting
by a physician (but by a medical asssnL  nursec midwife. etc)  and fishing as percentage of total labor fom  1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-ptiet accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilitesmlustry (premtr-Labor force in miing. constuc                                                   manunu-
Adm'dssi. par Hospie/ Be-Total nwnber of admissions to or     facturing and elctricity. water and gs as pecntge of total labor
dischargs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwridpa*a   at (pes )-4orA maie, .nhsiele-Partiipation
HOUSIN                                                        or acvity rtes are computed as totaL male, and fmae lbor force
A. : Siz: ef Hof eom  d (prsu  pn honseoML)-rotal mimi        as pcntage of totl, male ad female population of all ago
Ad,wai-A household consists of a group of individuals wno share  respetively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and thir main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partipaton rates rdiect age-ser structure ofthe population and
may not be induded in the housdiold for statscal purpoms.     long time trend. A few esnmates are from national sours
Aver  Naa,er of Persof per Ro,,t-4eal arbam. and rural-       Ecunoic Dev,ndey Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. lo the working age population (those aged t5-643.
occupied conventional dwellings. respecively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                LNCOME DMSTRIBUTIO4
Percentage of Dweings witk Elewticis-roe, mham. ad rwrL--     Pereataew   of Total Dispmsle Income (both in csh  .d Aibd)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Acruni.; ti percenile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwelings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sud  E e  Rarigs                                            The following estimates are very approximate msures of poverty
Pl*uvy sd,ool - totl.  ak and femde-r     totaL male and      levls. and should be interpreted with considerable cauio
female enrollment of aD ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  Esnmied Abselt* Thuery Liwa  Lewd (USS per cqpraj-wha
respective primary school-age populations. While mny countries  d rraf-Absolute poverty income level is that income klvd
consider prmuary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritioally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the raos given For some countries with universal  Es_thed RelAti  Plove  mewo Levd (USg pr pitae)-'wa
education. gross enrolment may ceed 100 percent since some    mod rwal-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  averge per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age-                                                          derived From the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday school - totl. mal and feale-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary educaion requires at ka  four years of approved pri-  E&m ed Poprdm.    elw A srolu   verp lucer Leve (par-
mary nstruiorn provies general. vocatioaL or teacher training  cej-arm ad         -  rcenr of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are g ray excluded.
VKaiona/ Enrollamni (percent of second2pyj-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independenty or as deparments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-31 -                                     A      
Page 5 of 6 pages
Population    s 155.6 million (mid-1983)
GlN per Caplta: US$560 (1983 estimte)
INDONESIA - ECONONIC INDICAORS
Aomt
(million U$ at                           Annual zrortb rate CZ) lb
current pric")                ActtuaJ                               ro1cted
Indicator                         1983         195U   1951   LSBZ  19583 i,WS.a          13Y5   15gg   155   1555 5-
NACIONAL ACCOUNTS
Eroms do_tSc product /c         78,344        9.9   7.9  -0.2    4.7   6.5   2.9    4.6   5.1   4.7   4.1   4.3
Agriculture                   20.651        5.2   4.9   2.1   4.8   5.0    3.7    3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7
Industry                      29,896       12.5   6.5  -6.4    5.0   9.8    0.9    4.5   5.5   4.6   3.0   3.5
Services                      27,797       11.8   9.8   5.5    4.3   4.0   4.5    5.5   5.5    5.5   5.5   5.5
Cpsmtioe                        62,731       12.4  15.8   3.0   0.7   7.2   3.1   3.1   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2
Grwen ives   t /d               18,908       18.9  11.1   8.5  -7.0  -9.0    5.1   5.1   5.3    5.5   5.7   5.5
Exports of GNVS                 19,508       -5.6  -2.4  -12.6  14.2   3.5   1.4    6.4   5.2    3.9   1.4   3.0
Imorts of GCFS                  22,803       15.1  27.1   3.2  -8.6  -7.5    3.6    1.5   2.4   2.6   2.6   3.4
Groma natiol sins               12.273       33.2 -20.0  -11.3   3.7  18.4  -3.3    6.9   8.0   6.9   5.3   5.2
nRICZS
CDP-eflator (1961 - 100)                       91   100    113   131   142   154   168   183   199   217   237
Zhang  rate (Bp per US$)                      627   632    661   909  1,026
3ure of GDP at mrket price  (Z)
.-at current prScro)                      Aver ge 0anual increa   (Z) lb
15O   1S70   1975   19W0  1985  1550        15W-U   1570thS   lYO-5    190W5u  1,uaSo
Gross domestic product        100   100   100   100    100   100            3.9       8.4       7.4       4.3      4.6
Agriculture                  54    47    32    25    26    25             2.7       4.1       3.3       4.1       3.7
Industry                     14    16    34    43        38    38         5.2      12.0       9.8       3.4       4.2
Services                     32    35    35    32    36    37             4.8       9.7       9.5       5.6       5.5
C*  . etlen                  91    89    79    71    78    76             4.1       8.4       9.2       6.0       4.0
Gros Invent /d                8     14    20    21    18    19            4.8      18.3      12.2       2.6       5.4
Exports of GQFS              13    13    23    31    25    24             3.6       9.2       2.9     -1.1        4.0
1i_orts of GQlS             -13    -16    -22   -22   -21   -19           3.2      22.1      14.0       2.6       2.5
Gross national savings        8      9     17    26    19    21           6.1      23.1      14.2     -0._       6.8
An X of GDP
1950             1L 75 T5                                              15-
PUBLIC FIANCE I
rrent r                                    11.7              10.1              17.4              22.5              21.5
Oarrent expenditures                       14.0               8.4               9.9              12.8             13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                 -2.3              +1.6              +7.5             +9.7              +8.2
Capital expenditure                         n.-.              5.0              11.3              13.0             10.0
Foreign 'Inacing                            0.2               3.5               3.7               3.3              1.6
1960-70        1970-75         1975-60         1980-65         1985-90
OTHER I DDICATORS
Anuaz c1r growth rate (2)                         4.5             7.6             7.1            4.1             4.7
Annual GUP per capita growth rate CZ)             2.4             5.1             4.7            2.0            2.5
Annual energr coomption growtb race (Z)           2.2            11.2            11.0            1.4            4.6
ICOR                                              2.2             2.2             3.3            4.8             4.0
Marginal sawinp  rate                             0.30            0.48            0.28         -0.01            0.29
Import elasticity                                 1.2             2.6             0.64          0.57            0.53
/a Etimates.
7F At constant 1973 prices for 1960-81 *and 1981 prlcea for 1962-90.
7F At ma_ket prices.
7W   ixed investent; stock cbanges are Included In conuaptios.
7e Central Covernmt only, on an April-to-4kreb fiscal year basis.
lat Alsa and Paciflc legion
iky 31, 1965



Population    :  155.8 milllon (mid-1983)                        - 32 -                                    AINIe  1
GNP per Capita: US$560 (1983 estimate)                                                                     Pae 6 of 6 paep
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYHZNTS AND LXTEINAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
-   Jlllone Us$ at currenF prrces) sT    -
Actual                                Proi-cted
Y19W     1981    LSUZ      1v98    1Yf4a /1835    198b        1Y87l   lS9
BALANCE OF PAYMZTS/b
1.  aisports                                   22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                   17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoll                                 5,588    4.170    3,928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  I ports (including net NFS)               -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sectar                            -4,050   -5,^07   -4,802   -3,839   -3,135  -3,801   -4.113   -3.619   -6,540
(b)  Nonoll lo,rts                        -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,599  -16,462  -22,438
(c)  NRS (net)                             -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3. Resource balance                             5,296      424   -3,667        162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                            -3,165   -3.210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708   -7,2B7
(a)  Interest public debt                    -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216   -2.428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                 76        67      105       95       100     112       119      125      150
6.  Balnce on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7. Direct foreign investment                       140      142      311       193      250     250       275      300      375
8.  Public K A LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                           2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortizatlon                            -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
Cc)  Net disbursemnts                       1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9.  Other capital (net)                        -1,U48       -31      455    1,975       287   -143      -104      -418      133
10.  aunge iln reserves (- Increase)            -2,736      988    3.350   -1.619      -873    -400      -672      -966     -309
11.  Net official reserves                       7,342    6,354    3,004    4,623    5,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,384
Reserves In monthe of nonoll imports
+ 8rs                                       6.5       4.4      2.1       3.5      4.6     4.6      4.7       4.9      4.5
Mmworandun Item
Net toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                    10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reserves in months of nonoll
imports + NFS                                  9.6       7.4      4.3      6.4       8.2     8.1      7.9       7.8      6.6
EXIRAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                            2 551    2 673    4 192    4 965    3 828
Cnessia7ns.        LoasW                                  n       : ew      'EW
Bilateral                                    TN       717       63T    3^T Z       7K
IDA                                           42       69        78       60        54
Other                                          6        7         8        8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                          1892    1880    3,503    4,357    3,277
Bil-ateral
IBRD                                           331      314       505      489       772
Other multilateral                              52       85       126       160      163
Private-source                               1,421    1,310    2.356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outsIandAing and disbursed le          14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Official-source              -- zRJS    'U3r   M3E'Z  lor     T7-r
Prlvate-source                             5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
tota-s-er-Fce payments                       1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                     823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                     7.7      8.9      12.0     12.9      16.0
Aversle Intere t Rate on New Loans (2)           8.1       8.7      9.2      8.8       9.1
cnhicisl-aource                                5.4      7.8       8.8      8.7       8.6
Private-source                                12.4      9.4       9.5      8.8       9.8
Average Maturity of New Loans (Years)           18.8      15.5     15.2     15.1      15.9
tlc±s±cl-source                               24.4     20.5      20.6     22.3      20.9
Private-source                                 9.8      11.1     11.1     10.3       9.2
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                             34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                           65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within flrst year                                                                          7.0
la  Estimates.
7W  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7qr Includes foreign assets of deposlt money banks in addition to official reserves.
7 Z Excludes prlvate nonguaranteed loans.
7r  At end of period.                                                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
7r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                  May 31, 1985



33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                    Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           109.00       -        22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II          50.50       -        10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     53.60       -         9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00       -        75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00       -        37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         35.49       -         4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                  -       12.00       5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III         92.00       -        23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       37.60       5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II             -       39.00      19.26
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.100      -        36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV          30.90       -        15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.00       0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00       -        65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             25.00       -        10.51
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00       -        31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00       -        10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00       -        11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00       -        19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V          134.00       -        80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.00       -        66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00       -        39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00      -         9.34
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 34 -
ANME II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loanl                                                        Amount (Us$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                    Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asas Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                185.00      -        65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                     85.00      -         32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                     79.59      -         64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                             25.00       -        21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.00       -        15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Ja":a          70.00       -        36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution            66.00       -        31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI          55.50       -        43.77
2153    1982   Coal Ezploration Engineering                25.00       -        14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering      5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                              300.00       -       223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII        138.90       -       136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                           27.00       -        23.25
223u    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation             22.40       -        19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                         101.00      -         54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development           30.00       -        24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                      30.60       -        17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                              208.90      -        131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                           63.50      -         59.14
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                         107.40      -        105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                           279.00      -        171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                 63.30      -         52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and S.allholder Sugar        79.20       -        47.84
2355    1984   Second on-Formal Education                  43.00       -        34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.           89.00       -        60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                         240.00      -        185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                     39.25       -        35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development         204.65       -        96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                    65.00       -        62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                           210.00       -       196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-lID)                                50.00      -        19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Educ.Ltion and Management
Training                                  78.00      -        73.58



- 35 -                  AM=  1
Page 3 2f 4 pages
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculttire and Conservation         11.30      -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II          131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                           46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Kanpower Development)        39.00       -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ohbo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                               156.00      -       156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development               147.00      -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                  111.00      -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                         160.00      -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training             93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a           32.00       -        32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a            43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health       33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a        33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a         166.00      -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                  -577.51   -23.38
Total nov outstanding                    7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                         4,053.25
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX Ir
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                              Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                            Type of business         -  (US$ million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                        Textiles                  2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Teztiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia               Cable                     2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                   4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel            Tourism                   9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                    5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles                  2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                  Electronics               0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                         Dev. fin. co.              -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                      Textiles                  2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                    5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cemer;.                    -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Teztile Mfg. Corp.   Te%tiles                   0.4     -       0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                      Textiles                  1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                       Textiles                  0.9     -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera               Capital market            4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries      Glass dinnerware         11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia       Cement and construc-
tion material         48.0    5.0    53.0
198215  P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing         Capital market            5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   25.0     -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                    143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                        113.4    7.3   120.7
Total held by IFC                                           30.2   12.3    42.5



3 37 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        24 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Ministry of Manpower (with
Bank/British Council/ILO
assistance)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:           Oct. 1983
(d)  First mission to consider project:   Oct. 1983
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:       July 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           April 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1986
Section I: Special Bank Implementation Action
Project Preparation Advance of US$383,000 agreed in November 1983.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) implement annual project plans and budgets and staff development
programs after consultation with the Bank (paras. 44 and 55);
(b) appoint staff to the agreed key posts in the Project Director's Office,
as a condition for loan effectiveness (para. 54); and
Cc) select fellowships in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 56).



INDONESLA                       INDONESLA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAIN PMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
I,n  M            -tid 'olS Nond                              USwodn  at Tic g go-  R.N.
Isi ,,1aigoV act iath             TcdN  S.I n     P'I-Iaid thgo-me    P-tinc
A    W >/ane_ Ucctlceo tahtgy
hNocncrS~icno oti  -tat  tiv~r               WN as                                               7.
Ragtel eoiligcae-ol iouccctt OtSctA                             In-lat Il
........ce.oltocsd Stoccct.St?lls.ank tl,tT   a
aid Tact Caetoa                                                  5     Mecca~~~~ Teal.ec
THMILA72          -t.-                                                tc
13                      MALAYSIA              So-th   CJtio     Sea -UN
12  'K       /                                     ~~~~~~~MALAYSIA/
1-
7                                                       L        AN                                                                                                                                                                    JAYA
RAA                                                                                                                                                RWEI                          '                                                                snnc
-      AseeT.. .                          A a('i
-         ' Aes tt Ao                                                                               aV-~{                                                                                                                                                  O As J Y
elWVOYAtAtTA N..-"
-      i -U Ot feI a --                                                                                    ~j                                                                                                                              ¾2
e aeNcteucs  S                                                                                               ,'             j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2424



