D_cument of
The World Bank
FlOMCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. 5861-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
May 1, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1 = Rp 1,100
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPEDA    -   Regional Development Planring Board
BAPPENAS   -   National Development Planning Board
BLK        -   Vocational Training Center (under the Ministry of Manpower)
BNI 1946   -   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
ILO        -   International Labor Organization
IMMIS      -   Indonesian Manpower Management Information System
ITDU       -   Industrial Training Development Unit
JIVT       -   Joint Industrial Vocational Training Scheme
KADIN      -   Indonesian Chamber of Commerce
KLK        -   Rural Training Center
MEC        -   Min:stry of Education and Culture
MOF        -   Min3stry of Finance
MOM        -   Ministry of Manpower
NPC        -   Nati nal Productivity Center
NVTC       -   Natitial Vocational Training Council
PPF        -   Proje t Preparation Facility
PUSDIKLAT  -   Minis .ry of Manpower Central Office for Education and Training
REPELITA   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SEKNEG     -   St%.e Secretariat for Procurement Matters
STM        -   'enior Secondary Technical School (under the MEC)
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OICUL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC                            DAA.........                                ................................  i
LOA  AND PROJECT SUHMARY... ....e*....oe........ .................. ii-iii
I.  THE LABOR FORCE, EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING             .       .         1
Employment and Demand for Skilled Manpower .................        1
Supply of Skilled Manpower ............. .......... .......         4
Management of Education and Training ..................             6
Training Costs .......... ........ .......................................  7
Issues in Manpower Planning and Training ...................        8
Government Strategy ..................................... .         8
Experience with Past Lending               .. . .                   9
Rationale for Bank Involvement                          ..   10
II.  THE PROJECT ...................................................       10
Project Objectives and Scope ..............................        10
Project Components .........................................       11
Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information
Systems .... .e....................see.................................  11
Training Management and the National Training System ....       12
Upgrading of Training Systems, Facilities and
Programs                    .......   14
Long-term Development ......................................       17
Project Implementation and Management             .      .         18
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation ........       19
Technical Assistance and Staff Development          .     .        19
Status of Project Preparation .........................atio.       20
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan                    ..    21
Annual Costs ...............................................    24
Procurement ........................................................... 25
Disbursements .......................................................... 25
Reporting and Audit                    ..                          27
Benefits and Risks .........................................       27
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM ENDATIO            N       .    .       27
This report is based on the findings of: a preappraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in November 1984 comprising G. Hunting (mission leader), 0. Jonas
(economist), J. Brown (technical educator, consultant) and C. Bayulken
(editor); an appraisal mission that visited Indonesia in July 1985 comprising
G. Hunting (mission leader), A. Aime (educator), M. Godfrey (consultant), and
C. Baynlken (editor); and post appraisal by G. Hunting in November 1985.
This document has a rstrted ditnbution and may be used by rcipints only in the perfonnance
of thek ofll duties. Its contents my no otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1:  Employed Persons by Industry and Projected Growth
during Repelita IV .......                                        2
Table 2:  Employed Persons by Occupation 1982 and Projections
for Repelita IV ...........................................       3
Table 3:  Summary of Project Costs by Component         .....................  22
Table 4:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .......      23
Table 5:  Financing Plan ...                                  .......      24
Table 6:  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category................      26
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators                                       29
2.  Projections of Skilled Manpower Requirements                            30
3. Organization and Staffing of Ministry of Manpower
Chart 1:     Organization Structure of the Ministry of Manpower    31
Chart 2:     Organization Structure of Regional Kanpower Office    32
4. Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information Systems
Table 1:     Staff Training Fellowships - 1986/87 to 1990/91        33
Table 2:     Schedule of Consultant Services - 1986/87 to 1990/91  34
5. Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information Systems: Schedule of
Operations and Data Collection                                         38
Table 1:     Schedule of Operations by Nature and Region 1986/87   41
6.  Training Management and the National Training System
Table 1:     Schedule of Consultant Services - 1986/87-1990/91      42
Table 2:     Schedule of Overseas Training Fellowships and Local
Training - 1986/87 to 1990/91                         43
Table 3:     Senior and Middle Level Staff - 1985/86 and Projected
1990/91                                                44
Chart 1:     Joint Industrial Vocational Training Scheme            45
7. Upgrading of Training
Table 1:     Vocational Training Centers - BLK-Enrollment Targets
1985/86 by Main Skill Area                             46
Table 2:     Schedule of Consultant Services, 1986/87 to 1990/91   47
Table 3:     Schedule of Fellowships and Other Training, 1986/87
to 1990/91                                             48



- iii -
8.  Project Management                                                      49
Chart 1:     Implementation Responsibilities                         54
Chart 2:     The Project Management Office                           55
9. Implementation
Chart 1:     Schedule of Implementation                              56
Table 1:     Location by Province of Principal Project Activities  57
Table 2:     Critical Implementation Activities and Dates            58
Table 3:     Output Monitoring Indicators                            59
10. Technical Assistance Programs -
Table 1:     Sunnary of Consultant Services by Component and Year  60
Table 2:     Summary of Staff Training Programs by
Component and Year                                     61
Table 3:     Consultant Services by Package and Year                 62
11. Project Costs
Table 1:     Project Costs by Category and Component                 63
Table 2:     Project Expenditure by Component and Year               64
Table 3:     Project-related Unit Operating Costs                    65
Table 4:     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                     69
12. Selected Documents and Data in Project File                             70
MAP   IBRD No. 19401



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAININC PROJECT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (millions) (1982)                            152.6
Annual growth (Z)                                       2.2
Labor force (millions)                                   57.8
Participation rate (Z)                                 52.6
Employment by Sector
Agriculture (million)                                    31.6      (55%)
Industry and Trade, etc., (million)                      19.1      (33%)
Public Services (million)                                 7.1      (12%)
GNP per capita (US$)(1983)                               560
Labor force by education
level (1980 census)            Primary & below         Secondary     Higher
Number (millions)                      45.9                 5.7         0.4
Distribution (2)                       88.3                10.9         0.8
Number of Vocational Education & Training Institutions, Enrollments and Output
(1984)
No. of
Tpe                                          Institutions   Enrollments   Output
STH (Government) (1983/84)                       169           101,500      30,000
STM (Private) (1983/84)                          529           144,400        n.a.
Polytechnics (Government)                          7             3,300         700
BLK (1985/86 target)                              33            22,200        n.a.
KLU (1985/86 target)                             120            14,100        n.a.
Ministry of Manpower Budget Allocations (1985/86)                Total
US $ million
Development and routine                                           160
Training budget (development)                                      48
Training budget (routine)                                           4
/a Sources: Ministry of Manpower & Ministry of Education & Culture (unless
shown otherwise). Data are for 1982 or the 1982/83 school year unless
otherwise stated.



- ii -
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumnary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$58.1 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would assist the Ministry of Manpower by
financing consultant services, staff training, civil works,
equipment, furniture and project-related operating costs
to: (a) strengthen labor market and manpower planning infor-
mation systems at the national and regional levels:
(b) improve the Ministry's management systems and the manage-
ment capability of the Ministry's senior and middle-level
national and regional staff; (c) establish a national voca-
tional training system (including a joint training scheme
with industry, and occupational standards and certification);
(d) upgrade the Ministry's existing skills training facili-
ties and programs in accordance with employment and indus-
trial development needs; and (e) develop in selected provin-
ces support for in-plant training by industry, training for
self-employment and for the informal sector, and mobile
training. The main benefits would be: (i) improved labor
market and manpower information and planning systems at
national and provincial levels; (ii) more effective manage-
ment of training and establishment of a national training
system, including occupational standards, skills standards
and tests and an apprenticeship system; (iii) upgrading of
basic training and establishment of a capacity for training
about 20,000 people each year in key skills and occupations
at advanced levels and in specialist skills; (iv) improved
efficiency in utilization of training resources; and (v)
development and improvement in key areas of in-plant indus-
trial training, training for self-employment and the informal
sector, and mobile training. In addition, the project would
include arrangements for monitoring of training costs and
outcomes to provide the information on which to base subse-
quent long-term development r1 training.
Risks
The main risk is possible delay in implementation. To lessen
this risk, detailed consideration was given to the project
management, implementation and monitoring arrangements. The
project scope and size has been limited. In addition,
arrangements have been agreed for continuing the existing



- iii -
East Java regional progrma of technical assistance through
loan financing of an extension to the existing UNDP-ILO
project; this will ensure the presence of consultants from
the outset of the project. Project activities have been
designed in detail and preparation for implementation is well
advanced. Agreement hbs been reached on a system for close
Bank monitoring, including detailed review of annual plans
and budgets.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
US$ million-
Labor market and manpower
planning information systems                          4.4         4.4      8.8
Training managemnt                                       5.7        6.7     12.4
The national training system                             3.1        2.2      5.3
Vocational training programs (BLK)                       5.8       10.8     16.6
Instructor training                                     6.0         7.9     13.9
In-plant training, supervisory training and
productivity                                          3.4         3.1      6.5
Training for self-employment and
the informal sector                                   0.7         1.2      1.9
Mobile training                                          0.8        1.2      2.0
Base Cost                                     29.9       37.5      67.4
Physical contingencies                                2.4         2.5      4.9
Price contingencies                                   7.8        10.6     18.4
Total Project Cost /a                         40.1        50.6     90.7
Project Preparation Advance                     -          0.4      0.4
Total Financing Required                      40.1        51.0     91.1
Financing Plan:                                      Local      Foreign   Total
US$ million - --
IBRD                                                  7.1        51.0     58.1
Government                                           33.0                 33.0
Total                                          40.1        51.0     91.1
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY    1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
US$ million
Annual                                 1.0   2.5  10.5  13.0  13.5  11.5   6.1
Cumulative                             1.0   3.5  14.0  27.0  40.5  52.0  58.1
Rate of Return: not applicable
/a   Includes taxes and duties of about US$3.2 million.



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE LABOR FORCE, EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING
Employuent and Demand for Skilled Manpower
1.01      Expansion of employment opportunities and improvement in the quality
of manpower are key elements in the manpower policies of the Government of
Indonesia in its Fourth Development Plan, Repelita IV, 1984-89. The impor-
tance of the employment objective was also emphasized in the recent World Bank
report: Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment (Report No. 5597-
IND). The Government projected, for Repelita IV, that both tne labor force
and employment would increase by about 9.3 million over the period 1984-89.
The increase in employment, amounting to about 2.8% F.a., was expected to be
achieved with a growth in output of about 5.0% p.a.1   The agriculture sector,
which accounted for 55Z of employment in 1982 was expected to provide only
about 30% of new employment, whereas faster growth in manufacturing output was
expected to create up to 1.9 million new employment opportunities in that
sector. Within manufacturing, the fastest-growing subsectors were expected to
be metals and machinery and chemical processing which would have relatively
high requirements for skilled labor.
1.02      The most recent statistics on employment come from the 1982 labor
force survey and are presented in Table 1 along with employment projections
prepared for Repelita IV. The figures 'B the table should be taken as
indicators of orders of magnitude only -l of the increase in employment
projected for 1984-89.
1/   Both rates of increase are higher than assumed in the most favorable base
case scenario for 1986-95 in World Bank Report No. 5597-IND, 1985.
2/   Due to the lack of reliable and timely labor market information, there
are at present (at least) three different estimates of total employment
and its distribution. BAPPENAS planning documents assumed total employ-
ment of about 62 million in 1983; the Ministry of Manpower projections in
Table 1 use base year employment of 55 million in 1983; but the labor
force survey data in Table 1 would result in 1983 employment of about
59 million, assuming 2.8% growth since 1982.



- 2 -
Table 1: EMPLOYED PERSONS BY INDUSTRY AND PROJECTED
GROWTH DURING REPELITA IV
Growth in employment, 1984-89
Employment          Total /b            Nonagricultural /c
1982 /a                            Formal           Nonformal
million share thousand share thousand share thousand share
Z                z                 Z                  Z
Agriculture               31.6     55    2,800       30         -                 -       -
Mining                     0.4       1       40       *        10        1       20       *
Manufacturing              6.0      10    1,900      20       400      20    1,500        30
Electricity                0.1      *        30       *        20        1       10       *
Construction               2.1      4       400       4       200      10       200       4
Trade                      8.6      15    1,900      20       100       6    1,800       40
Transportation             1.8       3      400       4       100       6       200       4
Finance                    0.1      *        90        1       60       4        40        1
Public services            7.1      12    1,800      20       800      50    1,000       20
Total              57.8    100    9,000      100    1,700      100    4,800      100
/a   From the 1982 SUSENAS labor force survey; data released in September 1984.
7b   Unofficial estimates from the Employment and Income Distribution Strategy Project,
Ministry of Manpower, fall 1984; projections are based on 1980 census data.
Ic   Binagram, Ministry of Manpower, November 1984 (confidence +20Z).  These projections
assume the 1980 share of formal employment in all sectors during 1984-89.
* Less than 0.5%
1.03      Self-employment and the informal sector were expected to account for
about three quarters of new employment outside agriculture and the government
policy is to assist self-employment directly through training and other
support and to assist through training those activities in the informal sector
that require skills.
1.04      The occupational analysis of the 1982 labor force survey showed
about 11.6 million or 20% in the production category and production workers
are expected to account for nearly 40% of the additional employment over
Repelita IV as shown in Table 2.



-3-
Table 2: EMPLOYED PERSONS BY OCCUPATION 1982
AND PROJECTIONS FOR REPELITA IV
('000)
Growth in lb
Employment /a            employment projected
Occupation                         1982       Z                1984-89          Z
Professional/Technical           1,700        3                   400            4
Managerial                          40        *                    40            *
Clerical                         2,000        3                   500            5
Sales                            8,300       14                 1,800           20
Service                          2,300        4                   700            8
Farmers                         31,600       55                 2,500           28
Production, etc.                11,600       20                 3,500           39
Other                              200        *                     *            *
Not stated                           10       *                     *            *
Total                       57,800      100                 9,000          100
/a   1982 Susenas labor force survey data.
7b   Percentage distribution of employment growth based on October 1983
BAPPENAS planning papers; levels used in those papers have been adjusted
to be consistent with Table 1 above.
1.05      Although workers in the production category will include a signifi-
cant number of skilled and semiskilled workers there are no data on the skill
composition of employment and there is also no generally used and understood
occupational classification. However, using average international values for
the occupational distribution of workers within industry, projections have
been made of the approximate numbers of additional skilled workers likely to
be in demand during Repelita IV (Annex 2, Tables I and 2). In each of the
basic industrial trades: these demands seem to be for several tens of thou-
sands of skilled workers. Although expectations for the rate of growth of
industrializatioh have been reduced, the need for skilled workers will
continue to exceed the supply. In addition the number of existing workers
needing skills upgrading probably exceeds that of new workers if Indonesian
firms are to achieve the greater international competitiveness and better
product quality called for under Repelita IV.
1.06      Although it is not possible at present to obtain a precise and
detailed analysis of skilled manpower needs in Indonesia, the data reviewed
above indicate the large and urgent training needs faced by the Government.
These needs include skills training for new entrants to the labor market and
upgrading of skills of existing industrial workers, skills training for work-
ers for overseas employment, and training for people to become productively
self-employed or to enter the informal sector.



-4-
Supply of Skilled Manpower
1.07      The principal sources of trained manpower for industrial skilled
employment are the vocational training centers (BLKs) of the Ministry of
Manpower (MOM) and the technical secondary schools (STMs) of the Ministry of
Education (MEC). Both provide training to only a limited skill level.
1.08      BLKs.  The MOM has established 33 medium and large BLKs -  16 estab-
lished with the aid of bilateral donors over the period from 1956 and 17
established since 1974 with loan funds under the Fourth World Bank Education
Project (Ln. 1237-IND).
1.09      The BLKs' main programs are two to three month basic skill training
courses for unemployed youth. The main skill areas are: automotive, mechani-
cal, construction, electrical, welding, commercial, secretarial, miscellaneous
and agriculture. The minimum admission age is 18 and there is no educational
entry requirement, except for selected courses such as electronics. The BLKs
are not involved in the selection of trainees and are not responsible for
placement of graduates-in employment: consequently the BLKs do not have close
links with industry. There is no nationally recognized standard of skills
training -.nd although occupational standards have been designed, they are not
in generel use. Also, there is no system of skills testing and certification
and no national system of apprenticeship involving joint training with
employers.
1.10      The 33 medium and large BLKs have a training capacity of about 8,600
places, equivalent at present to about 25,000 trainees each year on three
month courses with single shift working. Enrollment targets for 1985/86 are
shown in Annex 7, Table 1. The MOM has also established about 60 small, rural
training centers (KLK) - part of a target of 120 small centers which will
provide training related to rural occupations, including agriculture. These
small centers, now being brought into use with equipment procured under export
credit agreements, will have a total training capacity of about 10,000 places
by 1986/87, equivalent to about 35,000 trainees per year.
1.11      The MOM also provides a relatively large program of mobile training
- with numbers of trainees reported to be much greater than those in the
centers. The 1985/86 target for trainees in mobile units is about 75,000.
Mobile training has not been formally evaluated but from observation during
recent visits to training centers it is clear that many mobile units are no
longer in working order.  The most successful forms of mobile training appear
to be: in the urban setting, training in firms undertaken by BLK staff with
equipment provided from the BLKs; and in the rural areas, training in hired
accommodation, using equipment mainly supplied locally, supplemented by equip-
ment from the BLK, for trainees from a group of villages.
1.12      The 17 centers established under Ln. 1237-IND are reasonably well
equipped but recent visits have shown that the equipment does not have a high
utilization rate. Some of the older centers have received new equipment under
the export-credit financing but the more advanced items of equipment appear
not yet to be in use and some are not relevant to local needs. The major
problem for the centers is the lack of skills and experience of instructors.



During Repelita IV MOM aims to train 650,000 persons. This would require some
5,400 instructors in comparison with the present 1,800 instructors including
400 senior instructors. Most of the experienced senior instructors have been
promoted to be principals of the new KLKs. Recently recruited staff are
mainly STM graduates with only 6 to 12 months training and no industrial
experience. Since salary levels are not high enough to attract a large number
of experienced skilled workers from industry to become instructors it will be
necessary for the MOM to continue the less satisfactory approach of recruiting
secondary technical school graduates as instructors, and to provide them with
adequate skills, iiLaructor training and industrial experience. Another
serious problem is the low efficiency of utilization of resources. Most of
the centers appear to run only two three month courses each year. At the time
of appraisal, the overall efficiency in utilization of accommodation in the
sample of BLKs visited was estimated to be less than 25%; the project is
expected to raise this figure to 75%. The low utilization was attributed
partly to the failure of the Regional Office to recruit trainees and partly to
the lack of training materials which had still not been procured three months
after the development budget authorization.
1.13      A survey of a sample of firms in July 1984 showed that the short
basic training courses of the BLK are not relevant to indusrrial needs:
relatively few employers had any knowledge of the centers and none regarded
the centers as a satisfactory source of skilled workers. However, a recent
tracer study of BLK graduates has shown that they are doing better in the
labor market than similar young people who did not go to a BLK, although in
absolute terms the job record is not good. In the BLKs studied, the training
was 37ore effective for high school graduates and for trainees aged 19 to
2.2-   The findings from these surveys point to the need, and justification,
for upgrading the centers, developing relevant and longer training, recruiting
and training an adequate number of instructors and establishing close links
between the centers and industry.
1.14      Secondary Technical Schools.  The secondary schools provide three-
year courses at junior level, which are gradually being phased out, and three-
or four-year courses at senior level. The senior secondary technical school
curriculum includes about 40% practical skills training. There was an enroll-
ment of about 100,000 in public STMs in 1983/84 and an annual output (1983) of
about 30,000 in the five broad areas of mechanical, electrical, electronics,
automobile and building trades. The First and Fourth Bank Education projects
included the establishment of central workshop facilities to upgrade the
training provided by STMs. In recent years the Asian Development Bank and the
Netherlands Government have provided assistance for the expansion of the STH
system. There is no comparative data on the performance of STM and BLK grad-
uates in the labor market, however the survey of firms in July 1984 indicated
that employers regard STM graduates as well educated and trainable and in
those firms for which there was data on workers' backgrounds the majority of
skilled workers were STM graduates.
3/   David Clark, Tracer Study of BLK Graduates, MOM Report, June 1985.



1.15      Training in Industry.  The Government of Indonesia in Repelita IV
places a large and increased responsibility on industry for provision of
training, both for its own immediate needs for skilled manpower and for train-
ing people who will subsequently enter the informal sector or establish them-
selves in self-employment. The Government proposes that industry and private
institutions train 3.8 million people over the 5-year period. However, a
survey of industry conducted by Bank and MOM staff in July 19f4, indicated
that there is relatively little struct red in-plant training.-'  The general
practice appears to be to recruit unskilled persons and allow them to "learn
on the job" by observation -- a very inefficient and ineffective method of
developing a skilled labor force. From discussions with a wide range of
industries it appears that industry is willing to increase its participation
in training but in order for it to do sO it needs assistance to plan,
establish and implement training.
Management of Education and Training
1.16      Presidential Decree No. 34 of 1972 assigps overall authority for
education and training, including technical education, to the MEC. Opera-
tional responsibility for education and training is shared between the MEC
-which is responsible for general and vocational education, MOM, which is
responsible for specialized and vocational training and the National Institute
of Public Administration, which is responsible for staff training in conjunc-
tion with the Central Offices for Education and Training (PUSDIKLATs) in each
ministry.
1.17      The Role of the MOM.  The MOM has two Directorates General.  The
Directorate General of Manpower Development and Placement is responsible for
national manpower planning and for the support and coordination of manpower
planning by other government departments. This Directorate General is also
responsible for vocational training to meet industrial employment needs, the
coordination of training provided by the private sector, the development and
implementation of employment policies and guidance and placement services.
The Directorate General of Industrial Relations, and Development and Super-
vision of Working Conditions is responsible for all aspects of industrial
relations, and for industrial safety and health. The structure of MOM is
shown in Annex 3, Chart 1. The MOM has a Regional Manpower Office in each
province and district offices in each district (Annex 3, Chart 2). The
National and Regional Productivity Centers provide labor productivity and
supervisory training and act as advisers within the MOM and in industry. The
present training operations of the MOM are la;'ely centralized, e.g., enroll-
ment targets, training curricula, staffing and fi'ancing are determined
nationally by the central office. The regional offices are responsible for
recruitment and selection of trainees and the training centers have relatively
little responsibility.
4/   "Industrial Training:  Report on the Findings of the July 1984 Industrial
Survey," September 1984.



- 7 -
1.18      MOM suffers from several problems.  First, it lacks a comprehensive
information system to enable it to carry out labor market and manpower plan-
ning. Second, it has insufficient qualified staff at both the central and
regional levels. Finally, the organization of the MOM requires a clear allo-
cation of staff responsibilities, particularly for the implementation of
development activities. PUSDIKLAT also suffers from a shortage of qualified
staff and resources.
1.19      Coordination of Vocational Training.  The Minister of Manpower has
recently established a National Training Council to advise him on training
policy, to assist ir planning, coordination and implementation of training and
to approve national skill standards. Its work is at an early stage: three
subcomittees, serviced by Ministry staff on a part-time basis, are assembling
information on the existing training system, standardization and certification
of training. A Regional Training Council is being established in Surabaya, as
a pilot project with ILO-UNDP support, to act as a forum between the MOM,
other government departments and local industry to provide advice on training
and to support coordination and development of training in the region.
1.20      Manpower Planning.  Manpower planning in the current five-year
development plan, Repelita IV, comprises forecasts of employment and occupa-
tion based on estimates of output growth by sector. The MOM carries out
annual surveys by region of a sample of industrial enterprises -- covering
employment, wages and training but little use appears to have been made of the
results in the planning of training.
Training Costs
1.21      There is very little detailed information available on training
costs in Indonesia and it is difficult to identify and attribute actual
capital and current expenditure to training activities. However, on the basis
of budget allocations and training targets, the training provided by the BLKs
appears to be inexpensive. For 1985/86, the total development budget for the
33 larger BLKs was Rp 10,500 million and the number of trainees about 80,000
(including those in mobile training), thus implying a unit allocation of only
Rp 130,000 for a 3-month program. The routine budget allocation per trainee
is approximately Rp 15,000 -- giving a total allocation of Rp 145,000 for 3
months training. Of this total about Rp 36,000 (25%) represents staff
salaries and allowances and Rp 90,000 (60%) represents materials and other
expenditure. The actual expenditure probably varies considerably between
courses but overall expenditure could be raised in order to improve quality of
training while still maintaining relatively low training costs. Information
is also lacking on the costs of training in industry. Only a small proportion
of firms appear to have training budgets, and those budgets cannot easily be
related to training outputs. The Labor market and manpower planning component
of the project would address the issue of monitoring training costs and
relating costs to outputs to provide a basis for future policy development.



- 8-
Issues in Manpower Planning and Training
1.22      Recognizing the importance of improving both productivity of indus-
try and employment prospects, there is an urgent need to strengthen the capa-
city of the MOM to establish appropriate training policies and systems and to
lead and coordinate manpower development and training in the public and pri-
vate sectors. The issues facing the MOM can be classified as follows. First
there are weaknesses in the manpower planning and training management systems,
for example, the National Vocational Training Council needs to be brought into
effective operation and similar representative bodies established at the
provincial level; staff expertise should be strengthened and effective man-
power and training management information systems developed. Coordination
needs to be strengthened between the MOM, other ministries and the private
sector. Second, there is no national system for training, e.g., little use is
made of the standard classification of occupations, there is an absence of
national training standards and little skills testing; there is no formal
'apprenticeship' system in the sense of coordinated programs of training to
agreed standards involving both off-the-job and in-plant training. Third,
there is need for upgrading and improving the relevance of skills training,
for example, there is very little specialist and advanced skills training,
very little skills upgrading in conjunction with employment needs, and a lack
of supervisory training. Training other than institutional training is
important, particularly in-plant training, mobile training and training for
self-employment. There is an urgent need to develop MON's capacity to support
the expansion of these forms of training and, through carefully monitored
small-scale projects, to assemble data about methods, outcomes and costs to
provide the basis for long-term policies and programs while improving their
quality and appropriateness.
Government Strategy
1.23      Government objectives under Repelita IV include the expansion of
technical education and vocational training in order to supply skilled man-
power to support Indonesia's policies of industrialization and increasing
exports and to enlarge employment opportunities. The Government's target for
public and private STMs during Repelita IV is to double enrollment, from about
250,000 in 1983184 to about 500,000 in 1988/89. The target for MOM is also to
double training in its centers (BLK and RLK) and mobile training, from about
80,000 in 1983/84 to about 170,000 trainees in 1988/89. Quality of training
is to be improved and its relevance to industrial need increased. The MOM is
providing for expansion of training capacity by the construction and equipping
of the 120 smaller centers, KLKs (para. 1.10). It is now giving attention to
the development of more advanced and specialist training; to more efficient
use of training resources both in centers and in mobile training and to
increase participation of industry in training. It is also introducing
training for self-employment and has recently entered into agreement with Bank
Negara Indonesia (BNI) 1946 to provide loans to successful BLR graduates for
approved investment proposals. In accordance with Repelita IV objectives the
MOM has drafted a Training Act which it is discussing with other government
departments and which would provide a satisfactory legal framework to enable
it to increase the participation of industry in training, introduce charges
for training and other means of cost sharing and establish skills standards



- 9 -
and certification. The provisions of the draft act are satisfactory. The MOM
is seeking Bank assistance for the development and implementation of this
strategy.
1.24      The MOM is currently receiving assistance under a number of separate
and relatively small programs of technical assistance. Two UNDP-ILO pro-
jects: the Indonesia Manpower Management and Information System (IMMIS) Pro-
ject and the Employment Creation Strategy Project are strengthening the MOM's
capability in two specific aspects related to manpower planning. Another
UNDP-ILO technical assistance project is helping the MOM to develop the
Surabaya BLK as a model regional center. Activities at the Surabaya Center
include: (a) strengthening collaboration between the BLK and industry;
(b) establishing upgraded and advanced training modules; (c) developing in-
plant training; and (d) setting up pilot skills-testing facilities. A
Canadian-assisted (CIDA) project to establish a BLK in Samarinda is nearing
completion. A Japanese-aided (Japanese International Cooperation Agency)
Instructor Training Center has just opened in Jakarta.
Experience with Past Lending
1.25      The Bank's support of Indonesia's strategy for the development of
technical manpower and industrial skills development has been the focus of
several education and training projects. Credit 219-IND supported the esta-
blishment of five centralized training workshops for practical training for
students from nearby secondary technical schools. Loan 1237-IND supported
development of additional centralized workshops as well as the establishment
of the 17 vocational training centers for the MOM. Credit 869-IND and Loan
2290-IND support the establishment of a polytechnic system to train
engineering technicians. Loan 2258-IND is assisting in the upgrading of
manpower in the Ministry of Public Works. University development is being
supported by two loans (1904-IND and 2547-IND), and high-level scientific and
technological manpower by the Science and Technology Training Project (Loan
2599-IND). Support for the sector also includes agricultural training, non-
formal educqtion, teacher trai .ng, textbook development and secondary
education.
1.26      An OED Project Performance Audit Report prepared for Credit 219-IND
(No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stresses the importance of:
including fellowships for development of teachers and school administrators;
and appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner. The
Project Completion Report on Loan 1237 (May 3' 1985) indicates as the main
lessons: (a) the need to provide adequate technical assistance for both
project planning and implementation; (b) the importance of the timely appoint-
ment of PIU personnel and training of a sufficient number of staff; (c) the
need to monitor training outcomes and to give due regard to the quality of
skills training; and (d) the importance of effective coordination of project
activities and implementation. The outcome of that project is a system of
well-equipped training centers, but the centers lack well-trained and
experienced staff and their present training is focussed on short basic
training programs for unemployed youth, thus failing to meet other important
training needs.
1.27      Implementation performance of projects in the Education sector in
Indonesia has recently deteriorated. Two important factors identified as



- 10 -
contributing to poor implementation, particularly in the Ministry of
Education, are (a) project managers are not comitted full-time on project
implementation but instead engage in multiple other activities, including
teaching and research, and (b) the lack of effective support and monitoring of
implementation at the Ministry level. These findings, and the lessons drawn
from completed projects, have been taken into account in the design of the
project, including the establishment and full-time staffing of a Project
Management Office, detailed preparation in advance of negotiations, and
advance commitment of staff for implementation.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.28      The expansion of employment opportunities and improvement in the
quality of manpower are key elements in the Government's manpower and indus-
trial policies. Growth in manufacturing output, and in the informal sector
are expected to account for most of the new employment. In addition to the
need for training for the nearly 2 million new entrants to the labor market
each year there will be a considerable need for upgrading the skills of
existing workers to enable Indonesian industry to achieve better competitive-
ness. The Government is faced with a variety of training needs: in addition
to the upgrading of its existing training resources it needs assistance to
develop new cost-effective means of training and to expand training by
industry. The MOM is therefore seeking assistance for a major program in
upgrading of skills training and planning and management including improved
efficiency in use of its resources and increased participation of industry in
training. The proposed project would build on the Fourth Education Project,
Loan 1237-IND, under which new training centers were established.  It would
address, in a comprehensive manner, the main issues in manpower planning and
training, including those relating to management and institution building, and
to the development of training relevant to employment needs. It would inte-
grate and expand existing pilot projects.
1.29      An advance of US$383,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF), financed technical assistance for project planning. Throughout project
preparation and appraisal close attention has been given to the determination
of priorities and to the implementation capacity of the MOM in order to keep
the scope of the project within manageable bounds and avoid the implementation
problems encountered under Loan 1237-IND and other projects. The project
design gives particular emphasis to: (a) the coordination of implementation
action and budgets; (b) full-time staffing of the project management office;
(c) the timely provision of technical assistance throughout implementation;
(d) the commitment by the MOM of appropriate staff resources to implement the
project; and (e) close monitoring by the MOM and the Bank.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
2.01      The project, which would constitute the first phase of a long term
development program, would focus on institutional development, the formulation
and implementation of new policies for manpower development and training by
the MOM and the upgrading of MOM's management and training systems. It would



- 11 -
contribute to expansion of employment by improving the competitiveness and
productivity of industry through improved skills of industrial manpower and by
providing training and other support for self-employment and the informal sec-
tor. The project components would essentially strengthen and improve existing
structures. The proposed project would assist the MOM by financing consultant
services, staff training, civil works, equipment, furniture and project-
related *perating costs to:
(a) strengthen labor market and manpower planning information systems at
the national and regional levels;
(b) improve the MOM's training management systems and the management
capability of the MOM's senior and middle-level national and
regional staff;
(c) establish national and regional vocational training systems
(including regional training councils, a joint industrial vocational
training system and occupational standards and certification);
(d) upgrade the MOM's skills training facilities and programs in the
existing 33 medium and large vocational training centers in
accordance with employment and industrial development needs; and
(e) develop in selected provinces support for improved in-plant training
by industry, training and other support for self-employment and for
the informal sector, and mobile training.
Project Components
A. Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information Systems
(US$8.8 million excluding contingencies)
2.02      Upgrading of Planning and Information Systems.  The labor market and
manpower planning information systems initiated under the ILO's IMMIS project
(para. 1.24). would be strengthened and improved, particularly at the regional
level, to provide efficient collection, analysis, dissemination and use of
labor market, employment and training data. The systems would assist central
and regional government to plan and implement manpower, employment and
training policies and programs, assist employers to recruit and develop a more
efficient labor force and provide individuals with better information about
training opportunities and so improve their access to more fruitful
employment.
2.03      The organization for manpower planning would be improved, initially
by a better definition and coordination of functions and subsequently by
appropriate reorganiz-tion. The MOM's capacity to support and coordinate man-
power planning with other government departments would also be strengthened.
Provincial development would be phased and by the end of the project cover all
provinces.
2.04      In support of these objectives, training for staff of the MOM would
be provided through 60 man-years of fellowships for postgraduate training
overseas in labor economics and manpower planning and about 300 man-years of
local training, of which about 60 man-years would be in Long courses and the



- 12 -
remainder in short courses in specialist techniques, arranged by PUSDIKLAT
with consultant assistance. The capacity for continued in-service training
s3uld be strengthened by the provision of three man-years of local training in
training methodology for selected manpower-planning s .aff. About 100 man-
years of local training would also be provided for manpower planning staff of
other government departments (Annex 4, Table 1). Ten man-years of both
international and domestic consultant services would be provided to assist
with the design and implementation of the systems and the training of staff
(Annex 4, Table 2). Computing facilities and software would be provided in
the regions to complement the system established in the MOM under the IMMIS
project. The specifications of the system and cost estimates have been
prepared with the assistance of consultants.
2.05      Labor Market Information and Planning Operations.  The operations of
the MOM's directorates of program development and manpower supply and
placement and the regional manpower departments would increase considerably as
the manpower planning and labor market information systems are established and
expanded. The project would provide the related operating costs, including
the h-iring and training of survey staff, the expenses of conducting surveys
including the design and printing of survey instruments, staff travel and sub-
sistence, analysis of results, printing and publication of data, dissemination
of labor market information and follow-up and monitoring of outcomes of
training programs. Operations would include labor market studies in key
fields, e.g., employment in the informal sector, employment of women,
retraining, youth training and employment. Pilot training projects under
other components would be monitored.
2.06      Importanc outcomes of this work would be improved preparation and
implementation of manpower policies and programs for Repelita V and reliable
comparative data on training costs and outcomes. The program has been planned
in detail for the first year and in outline for subsequent years (Annex 5).
Progress will be reviewed each year and the annual program and budget agreed
in advance with the Bank.
B. Training Management and the National Training System
(USS17.7 million excluding contingencies)
2.07      This component would include (a) strengthening of the management of
training and related staff development; (b) establishment of a national train-
ing system; and (c) establishmenc of occupational and skills standards and
skills testing.
2.08 (a) Strengthening of the Management of Training. Management of training
by the MOM would be improved by rationalization of organization and the intro-
duction of improved systems particularly for key functionaL areas of planning,
development of training programs, allocation of resources, and monitoring of
outcomes. The project would provide training for new staff and upgrading of
existing staff in general and specialist management techniques and in produc-
tivity. The staff training program would be administered by PUSDIKLAT.
PUSDIKLAT itself would be strengthened by an increase in staffing, from 69 to
132 by 1990/91, and by staff training and consultant assistance for the design
and implementation of the staff training program. Computing and other equip-
ment would be provided for the MOM's central and regional offices and for
PUSDIKLAT. The efficiency of utilization of the BLK accommodation and



- 13 -
training equipment would be improved through the services of experienced
facilities planners and managers who would develop and implement a system for
rationalization and imoroved utilization. Consultant services would also be
provided to support the Project Management Office and to assist the planning
of future development.
2.09      The project would finance about 15 man-years of international and 17
man-years of domestic consultant services to assist in the upgrading of the
management systems and the related in-service training of staft (Annex 6,
Table l). About 120 man-years of fellowships would be provided for overseas
training and 80 man-years for local management training (Annex 6, Table 2).
Schedules of consultant services and training were agreed during appraisal.
2.10      Staff development will be a critical factor in the project's
successful implementation. Some 5,000 additional staff have been recruited
during 1985/86. About 400 additionaL senior and middle level staff are
expected to be appointed by 1990/91 in the MOM's main office and 11,000 in the
regional offices (Annex 6, Table 3). Satisfactory institutional and staff
development plans for the project period and covering all project activities
have been prepared for the key organizational units involved in the project.
The plans will need to be revised annually, as part of the budget process, to
match changing needs as the organizational structure changes and staff
performance is improved. At negotiations the Government provided an assurance
that annual staff development plans will be prepared, in consultation with the
Bank, for the key organizationaL units for all project activities, and that it
will appoint staff and counterparts in accordance with such plans.
2.11 (b) Establishment of a National Training System. The project would
strengthen the National Training Council's capacity to formulate policy
advice and prepare and monitor manpower developm2nt and training plans,
through the establishment and training of a small full-time administrative and
technical secretariat. Based on the experience gained through the pilot
project at Surabaya, Regional Training Councils would h- established in all
other provinces in stages by the end of the project. The project would
provide 60 man-months of fellowships for overseas study visits by staff and
Council members.
2.12      The present unstructured apprenticeship system would be extended by
a Joint Industrial Vocational Training (JIVT) scheme designed, established and
administered jointly by the MOM and industry. Training would normaLly extend
over a one to two year period and involve training off the job as well as in
industry (Annex 6, Chart 1). The scheme would be flexible and incorporate
advanced and specialist skills modules suitable for upgrading workers in
industry. The system would be established for priority skilled occupations in
the following subsectors of manufacturing industry: metal and related manu-
facturing, textiles, timber and wood processing and agricultural product pro-
cessing and for the construction industry. Preparations would be completed
for the extension of the scheme to other industrial subsectors and occupatlins
in a later phase. The project would finance the cost of 24 man-months of
international and 30 man-months of domestic consultants and 60 man-months of
fellowships for overseas staff training. The project would also cover the
project-related operating costs of the scheme.



- 14 -
2.13 (c) Establishment of Occupational and Skills Standards and Skills
Testing. The existing occupational standards would be reviewed, revised and
expanded. The revisions would be coordinated with the international review
currently underway, by ILO, of the International Standard Classification of
Occupations (ISCO). Skills standards would be established in the selected
priority industrial sectors for key occupations. Skills tests would be
designed and implemented and a certification scheme set up.
2.14      Test facilities would be established in BLKs in at least four pilot
areas in phases. The facilities would be available to workers in industry and
to STM students as well as to BLK trainees. The project would finance 90 man-
months each of international and domestic consultants to assist with the
design and implementation of standards and tests and the establishment of the
test facilities, 10 man-years of local training, adaptation of buildings at
the selected BLKs to house the facilities and provision of equipment and
operating costs. By the completion of the project, a satisfactory testing
system will have been developed for introduction nationally.
C.  Upgrading of Training S"stems, Facilities and Programs
(US$40.9 million, excluding contingencies)
2.15      Vocational Training Programs (BLK).  To upgrade the quality of
training, advanced and specialist skills and skills upgrading programs would
be developed in about 30 of the larger BLKs.  Training programs would be
developed on a modular basis at three levels: basic, advanced and specialist
for key occupations in the metals and related manufacturing industry,
electronics, textiles, wood processing, agricultural product processing and
construction industries. The specialist and advanced skills would be related
to the needs of industry in the region in which the BLK is located. By the
end of the project about 20,000 trainees are expected to be enrolled anually
in a 6-month or longer advanced or specialist skills module. Development of
training modules started by the ILO team at Surabaya would be continued with
implementation extended to other regions in a carefully monitored and phased
program. The project would finance a limited amount of building adaptation to
existing centers to house specialist facilities. No new centers would be
constructed. The aim is to increase efficiency of utilization of buildings
from the present low values (25X) to a level of about 75Z with double shift
operation.  Supplementary equipment would be provided for existing centers to
replace obsolete equipment and to enable the development of advanced and
specialist training. Procurement of equipment would proceed in stages in
accordance with the program of rationalization and efficient utilization of
physical facilities (para. 2.08).
2.16      The project would provide 30 man-years each of international and
domestic consultant services. The consultants would assist with the analysis
of training needs, and with the design, implementation and monitoring of the
revised training modules. They would also contribute in the development of
related training materials and in-service training of staff (Annex 7,
Table 2). Project-related operating costs for the development of training,
convening of industri6l advisory panels, honoraria for specialists, printing,
etc., would also be included in the project.
2.17      Instructor Training.  The project would establish four regional
instructor training facilities in existing BLKs in Medan, Singasori, Ujung
Pandang and Samarinda and upgrade existing instructor facilities in six other



- 15 -
BLKs. Each new facility would have a capacity of about 100 places and each
would require 10-15 well-trained staff   Training programs of 24 months would
be developed for new instructors, including 6 months training in industry.
Short upgrading courses rwould be developed for existing staff. The instru-.tor
training would be integrated with the training provided at the Japanese
assisted center (para. 1.24). The project would finance building adaptation
and equipment for the new centers. Eight man-years each of international and
domestic consultant services would be provided to assist with the design and
implementation of the instructor training programs. Fifteen man-years of
overseas fellowships would be provided for training of instructor training
staff. The project would also fund incentive schemes, on a pilot basis, to
attract well-qualified staff from industry as part-;tie instructors.
2.18      In order to ensure that instructors gain the required width of
experience, fellowships for training overseas would be provided for about 52
of the planned total staff of the 33 larger BLKs and senior staff of the
smaller centers, that is about 200 man-years of fellowships for about 100
instructors and senior instructors in programs of training and industrial
experience of six months to three years duration. Criteria for selection
would include satisfactory completion of preliminary language training for
which 120 man-years of local fellowships would be included in the project.
Some 2,000 man-years of upgraded local training would be provided for BLK
instructors (Annex 7, Table 3). Tracer studies and evaluation of the
instructor training programs would be included under the project.
2.19      Upgrading of In-plant Training and Supervisory and Productivity
Training. The project would establish an organization and system to support
in-plant training through the setting up of Industrial Training Development
Units (ITDUs) on an experimental basis in at least six provinces to help
industry plan and carry out in-plant training. The objectives would be
threefold: (a) to increase capacity for training workers in industry; (b) to
improve training skills of firms' industrial training officers and
supervisors; and (c) to train the MOM's Training Development Officers to staff
the ITBUs, by developing their capacity for guidance and support for more
effective in-plant training. The units would require 4-6 well-skilled and
experienced staff in order to be effective and to gain acceptance by
industry. The project would make an impact on training by upgrading the
skills of several thousand workers in key industries but its main objective
would be the design, implementation and monitoring of outcomes and costs of
in-plant training as a basis for planning long-term development of the
system. The ITDUs would serve as direct links between industry and BLKs.
Training projects would be supported in selected priority industries,
including metalworking and machinery, electronics, wood and wood processing,
textiles and other export industries. Assistance would also be provided for
the BLKs in cooperation with Regional Productivity Centers and ITDUs in at
least five provinces to design and establish part-time and full-time
supervisory and productivity training and re1ated consultancy services.
2.20      The project would provide 19 man-years of international and 21 man-
years of domestic consultant services to implement the scheme including
advising selected firms on training needs analysis, planning and implementing
training. To support the on-the-job training of training officers and the
related training of ITDU and productivity center staff there would be 20 man-
years of overseas training and assignments. Training equipment would be



- 16 -
supplied to the selected training centers for temporary use in the firms. The
project would also provide part of the other direct costs of training and con-
sultancy services, excluding salaries of trainees, for example: training
materials, honoraria for training staff, travel. Costs and outcomes would be
monitored and arrangements introduced to recover from industry part of the
costs of providing the services of the ITDUs and productivity centers.
2.21      Training for Self-Employment and the InformaL Sector.  The main aim
of this component would be to assist the development of self employment
including improvement of the system of training for seLf-employment, entre-
preneurship and management. The project would review the existing training in
these fields (including evaluation of outcomes) in university faculties of
economics, private business and management schools, and similar schemes in
other countries, to learn the lessons of past experience. The project would
upgrade the training and consultancy capacity of the productivity centers and
BLKs, which would be responsible for the new system, in at least ten
provinces. Programs would assist trainees to prepare investment proposals for
financing by BNI 1946 and would be based on pilot courses already introduced
in a few regions. Emphasis would be given to the processing of agricultural
commodities. The project would also organize a series of seminars, involving
the Productivity Centers, the Indonesian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
(KADIN), university economic faculties, the MAC, private business and
management schools, etc., in order to share experience for the production of
training materials and consultancy services for self-employment. The project
would be coordinated with the existing and other planned activities of a
similar nature, including the proposed UNDP/ILO project on training youth for
self-employment, the small industries program of the Ministry of Industry and
related activities of nongovernment agencies.
2.22      The project would also assist in the development of the informal
sector including programs in relevant skills training, in conjunction with,
and drawing on the experience of the Department of SmalL Industry of the
Ministry of Industry and of KADIN. Activities to be covered would be those
for which the resources of industry and of the training centers could be
combined to develop relevant training, to the mutual benefit of both small
informal industry and larger firms, such as installation, repair and mainten-
ance of all types of small-scale domestic and industrial equipment including
vehicles, home appliances and radios, or service activities such as retailing,
distribution, transport, as well as construction and repair of buildings and
building installations.
2.23      The project would provide 5 man-years of international and 8 man-
years of domestic consultant services, 36 man-months of fellowships for over-
seas study visits and training, a limited amount of equipment and materials
and related operating costs.
2.24      Mobile Training.  The project would upgrade existing mobile training
programs to cover industrial training in selected occupations in urban and
rural areas in at least eight provinces. Mobile training carried out under
the project would represent only a small proportion of the mobile training
activities of the MOM. The project's main objective would be to review,
improve and test the design, implementation and monitoring of a series of
mobile training programs using different delivery methods so that the outcomes
and findings could be used as a basis for the planning of long-term
investment.



- 17 -
2.25      Mobile training in rural areas would concentrate on teaching skills
needed to support local industry and to making and selling products such as
agricultural and fishery products, aimed at the ezport market. Help would
also be given to trainees in rural communities to combine these job skills
into rural businesses or cooperatives. In urban areas, arrangements would
include the use of industrial facilities and rented accommodation, with
supplementary equipment and training materials provided by the BLK. In
addition to the mobile training operating from the BLKs, the project would
seek to develop an "open" training scheme whereby packages of training
materials adapted to local needs would be developed and distributed to
selected rural and urban areas where local people with appropriate skills
would act as tutors under the supervision of BLK staff.
2.26      The project would provide six man-years of international and eight
man-years of domestic consultant services to assist in the development of
improved mobile training programs in urban and rural areas, including
materials development, instructor training and equipment specifications and in
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the programs. The project would
also finance 36 man-months of fellowships for overseas study visits and
training, supplementary equipment for use in the 8 centers and the operating
costs.
Long-term Development
2.27      The project would provide the institutional and staff development
which would be critical for the long-term expansion of traini g related to
employment needs. The management capability of the MOM would be improved,
particularly for the planning and development of training, the allocation and
efficient utilization of resources and the monitoring of outcomes. There
would be little addition to the MOM's physical training facilities but the
utilization of those resources would be improved significantly and the train-
ing would be upgraded in line with the needs of industry. In the longer term
the MOM's training capacity is expected to be increased and it will be equally
important to increase the participation of industry in the provision of train-
ing, to provide training for the large informal sector and to train greater
numbers through mobile and other noninstitutional methods. This project would
establish systems, effective training programs and methods for in-plant, in-
formal sector and mobile training, but in only a limited selection of pro-
vinces and occupations. The expansion of training would be provided under
later ohases of development based on the experience and findings of this
initial project.
2.28      Evaluation of training outputs and relationship with costs, particu-
larly the ccnduct of tracer studie3 of trainees and the assembly of compara-
tive data on cost and training effectiveness would therefore be an important
part of project implementation. This would be carried out through operations
under the labor market and manpower information and planning component in con-
junction with monitoring and evaluation by the directorates and central
offices of the Directorate General of Manpower Development and Placement and
coordinated by the monitoring and evaluation staff in the Project Management
Office. The project will also address the issue of recovery of training
costs. The feasibility and form of financial incentives to be established in
Indonesia will be established through consultant advice and study of training



- 18 -
levies, grants and other financial incentives in other countries. Strengthen-
ing of in-plant training will lead to more effective use of industrial
resources and facilities to develop and expand training. Fees will be
introduced for specialist, advanced and upgrading training courses.
2.29      Industry would be closely involved with the development of training
through membership of the proposed Regional Vocational Training Councils and
participation through working groups in the development of training programs
and training materials and in the establishment and implementation of training
standards and tests. The links between the training centers and industry
would also be strengthened by joint training schemes including in-plant train-
ing and training in the BLKS, e.g., the JIVT, and by provision of industrial
assignments and training placement for BLK staff. The project would also
provide a basis for drafting the decrees to implement the proposed Training
Act which is now in draft and which includes provisions to enable the
Government to require industry to increase its participation in training and
to establish fees for training and related services.
Project Implementation and Management
2.30      The Secretary General of the MOM would have overall responsibility
for the project and for interministerial coordination. The Director General
of Manpower Development and Placement would be responsible for project execu-
tion. Principal responsibilities for implementation of project activities
would be assigned to the following units of the MOM: the directorates of pro-
gram development, supply and placement of manpower, vocational training and
skills development, instructor and private training and labor intensive and
self-employment; to the central office for vocational training, which would be
responsible for the work of the BLKs; PUSDIKLAT, which would be responsible
for the planning and administration of project-financed in-service staff
training, and the National Productivity Center (Annex 8, Chart 1). The direc-
torates and central offices Are already escablished: the project would expand
and strengthen their management and implement tion capacity.  Each unit would
be responsible for the preparation of annual plans and budget, and the imple-
mentation and reporting of project activiries. The development budget would
be allocated to these units. Designated staff in each unit would have
specific full-time project responsibilities.
2.31      A Project Director's Office has been established in the Directorate
General of Manpower Development and Placement with a full-time project
director and full-time heads of units to coordinate project activities and
loan administration. The Project Director's Office would be responsible for
the central budget and accounts, -entral procurement of goods and services
including consultant services and placement of staff in training overseas,
support and services to facilitate implementation, monitoring and evaluation
and loan administration including disbursement and reporting to the Bank
(Annex 8). The appointment of key staff of the Project Director's Office
(i.e. the project director, treasurer, manpower planning and training area
coordinators, staff development coordinator, procurement officer and admin-
istrative head) should be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 19 -
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation
2.32      The following comittees have been established to assist project
implementation and monitoring:
(a) an Interministerial Steering Committee, including senior (Echelon I)
representatives of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance, meeting
quarterly, chaired by the Secretary General of the MOM and
responsible for coordination of policy and decision-making, review
of project implementation and allocation of funds;
(b) a MON Technical Committee, comprising directors and other heads
responsible for project implementation, together with representa-
tives of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance, meeting monthly and
chaired by the Director General of Manpower Development and
Placement.
2.33      The schedule for implementation of the project was reviewed and
agreed with the MOM (Annex 9, Chart 1). The location by province of principal
project activities was also agreed (Annex 9, Table 1).  Two moritoring
schedules were agreed: one for monitoring critical implementation activities
and dates (Annex 9, Table 2) and the other for monitoring outcomes (Annex 9,
Table 3). Both are designed to be updated annually and to constitute basic
monitoring instruments for the MOM and the Bank. Budget allocations related
to the agreed schedule of activities for the first year, 1986/87, have been
agreed with the MOM and BAPPENAS. At negotiations the Government gave an
assurance that it would prepare an annual plan and budget in consultation with
the Bank and carry out the project in accordance with such plan and budget.
Implementation wculd be monitored by the Bank through:
(a) submission by the MOM of quarterly reports on progress of key
implementation activities; and
(b)  biannual supervision missions including annual review of detailed
plans for all project activities and budgets in coordination with
the annual government budget process.
2.34      The proposed implementation period is six years; this appears feas-
ible given the advanced stage of project preparation and the large amount of
technical assistance. To allow safficient time for submission of final with-
drawal applications following the scheduled completion date of June 30, 1992,
the Closing Date would be June 30, 1993. It was also agreed during appraisal
that at the annual reviews opportunities for acceleration of implementation
would be taken to the extent that additional counterpart budget and staff
resources can be made available.
Technical Assistance and Staff Development
2.35      The project would provide substantial programs of staff training.
In total there would be about 420 man-years of overseas training and about
2,700 man-years of training in Indonesia. The overseas training program is
considered to be the minimum needed to achieve the necessary level of staff
development and well within the capacity of the MOM to absorb: it is intended



- 20 -
to supplement this with a similar program financed from bilateral assis-
tance. The overseas training programs would be administered by the Staff
Development Unit of the Project Director's Office, in close cooperation with
PUSDIKLAT. Fellowship candidates would be required to undertake preliminary
language training in MOM facilities in the Jakarta BLK and other BLKs. This
would be followed by up to six months full-time study in an external course.
Overseas programs would also include intensive advanced language training.
The project would provide four man-years of consultant services to improve
language training and develop supporting material for the MOM facilities. At
negotiations the Government gave an Assurance that candidates for overseas
training would be selected in accorcance with criterik and prozedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.36      To complement the staff development program there would be a need
for a considerable program of consultant services, international and domestic,
to analyze existing systems and to assist with the development and implementa-
tion of new policies, systems and procedures for planning, management and
training. Consultant services would be maintained through the implementation
and evaluation phases in order to achieve sustained change. The total program
would comprise about 106 man-years of service by international consultants and
112 man-years by domestic consultants.
2.37      Schedules and terms of reference for training and consultants'
services and packaging of bidding documents and short-lists for technical
assistance were agreed before negotiations (Annex 10) and confirmed by
government central agencies i.e., BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance and SEKNEG.
2.38      In view of the critical importance of the assignmerc of MOM staff to
act as counterpart teams on a full-time basis for all consultants, the MOM has
identified key project staff by name and the composition of csunterpart teams,
whose duties will be full time on relevant project activities.
2.39      The staff development and training progreA for the first year has
been agreed. The MOM has identified staff for the award ' fellowships in the
first year and arranged for their language trainirtg aad training placements.
2.40      A major input of technical assistance in the first year would be
provided by the project funded expansion and continuatien of the UNDP/ILO East
Java Regional (Surabaya) project: the draft program for this regional sub-
project has been reviewed and agreed.
Status of Project Preparation
2.41      The project was prepared with technical assistance financed by a
Bank loan under the project preparation facility. Schedules for appointment
of consultants, draft bidding documents including terms of reference, draft
short lists of consultant firms, and schedules of training fellowships and
programs related to each project activity have been agreed (paras. 2.37 and
2.39). Key counterparts have been assigned and counterpart teams identi-
fied. The East Java Regional program, to be provided under an expansion of
the UNDP-ILO Surabaya project, has been agreed and these activities will
continue from the beginning of the project (para. 2.40). Other consultants
are expected to be in post by September 1986. Candidates for training
overseas in 1986/17 would start language training locally in April 1986.



- 21 -
Specifications for computers and related equipment have been prepared and
draft master lists drawn up for small tools and replacement of obsolete
equipment. The bidding documents for the first phase of equipment procurement
will be published in January 1987. Construction, which would be a minor part
of the project and take the form mainly of adaptation of existing buildings,
would begin in mid-1987. In order to avoid delays in implementation during
the first year of the project, the Project Director's Office has been
established with agreed organization and staffing, the project director has
been selected and the government development budget for the first year's
activities has been agreed (paras. 2.31 and 2.33).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
2.42      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$91.1 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table 3
and by category of expenditure in Table 4. (Detailed costs by component and
category of expenditure and project expenditure by year and purpose are given
in Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2, respectively.)
2.43      Base costs are estimated at January 1986 prices.  Technical
assistance and training costs are based on current actual unit costs of those
services in other education and training projects. Construction costs are
based on recent prices for building adaptation and small extensions for simi-
lar purposes (Ministry of Public Works regional training centers and exten-
sions at Surabaya BLK). Estimated equipment costs are based on: detailed
specifications and current costs of computer equipment; master lists of hand
tools and replacement equipment and estimates of supplementary equipment
needed for advanced and specialist skills training. Duties and taxes on civil
works, equipment and services are estimated to be about US$3.2 million.
2.44      Project-related operating costs directly attributable to project
activities and allocated within the MOM's development budget are included in
the project and amount to about 23% of project costs. The estimates and unit
costs were agreed with the MOM on the basis of actual current costs of compar-
able activities (Annex 11, Table 3).
2.45      The foreign exchange component of US$51.0 million, representing
about 56% of the total estimated cost has been calculated on the basis of the
estimated foreign exchange percentages shown in Table 4. Physical contingen-
cies of 10% have been allowed for construction, equipment and materials,
furniture and operating costs and 5% for technical assistance. Price contin-
gencies which are equivalent to about 25X of base costs plus physical contin-
gencies were calculated in accordance with the implementation schedule and the
following expected average annual price increases: local -- 1986-90, 6.0%;
1991 and beyond, 4.5%; foreign -- 1986-87, 7.0%; 1988, 7.5%; 1989, 7.7%; 1990,
7.6%; 1991 and beyond, 4.5%
2.46      The proposed Bank 'oan of US$58.1 million would finance 66% of the
project costs excluding duties and taxes. The remaining US$33.0 million,
which includes duties and taxes, would be provided by the Government. The
financing plan is shown in Table 5.



-22-
Table 3: SDMMURY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT /a
Foreign
exchange
Rupiah billion             US$ million         as % of
Local. Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    total
Labor Market & Manpower
Planning Information Systems       4.8       4.9    9.7      4.4     4.4      R.8       50
Training Management and the
National Training System
Management of training             6.2       7.4   13.6      5.6     6.7    12.4        55
National Training System
(including occupational
standards and tests)               3.4       2.4    5.8      3.1     2.2      5.3       42
Subtotal                     9.5      9.8   19.4      8.7      8.9    17.7        51
Upgrading of Training
Vocational training programs
(BLK)                            6.4      11.9   18.3     5.8    10.8    16.6         65
Instructor training                6.7       8.7   15.3     6.1      7.9    13.9        56
In-plant training, supervisory
training and productivity        3.7       3.4    7.1     3.4      3.1     6.5        48
Self-employment & informal
sector                           O.R       1.3    2.1     0.7      1.2     1.9        63
Mobile training                     1.0      1.3    2.3      0.9     1.2      2.0       58
Subtotal                    18.5     26.5   45.0    16.8    24.1    40.9          59
Total Baseline Costs                32.9      41.2   74.1    29.9    37.5    67.3         56
Physical contingencies             2.6       2.8    5.4      2.4     2.5     4.9        51
Price contingencies                R.6      11.7   20.2     7.R    10.6    18.4         58
Total Project Costs         44.1      55.6   99.7    40.1    50.6    90.7         56
Project preparation facility         0.0       0.4    0.4      0.0     0.4     0.4
Total /b                    44.1     56.0  100.1    40.1    51.0    91.1          56
/a Discrepancies in totals are due to rounding.
/b Includes USS3.2 million taxes and duties.



- 23 -
Table 4:  SUMOARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF  XPENDITURE
Foreign
exchange
Rupiah billion             US$ million         as Z of
Local Foreign  Total   Local  Forelgn  Total    total
Civil works
Clv:il vorks                        2.4      1.0    3.4      2.2      0.9     3.1        30
Professional services               0.1      0.3    0.3      0.1      0.2     0.3        80
Subtotal                    2.4       1.3    3.7      2.2     1.2      3.4        35
Furniture. Equipment & Books
Furniture                           0.3      0.1    0.3      0.2      0.1     0.3        20
Computers                           0.3      2.4    2.7      0.2      2.2     2.4        qo
Training equipment & books          0.9      R.4    9.3      0.8      7.6     8.5        90
Subtotal                    1.5      10.9   12.3      1.3     9.9    11.2         88
Technical Assistance
Consultants
DomestIFconsultants               4.8      0.5    5.3      4.4      0.5     4.9        10
International consultants         1.5     13.9   15.5      1.4    12.7    14.1         90
Subtotal                    6.4      14.5   20.8      5.8    13.1    18.9         69
Fellowships
Local rellowships                 5.5      1.4    6.9      5.n      1.3    -6.3        20
Overseas fellowships              1.3     11.5   12.8      1.2    10.4    11.6         90
Subtotal                    6.R      12.9   19.7      6.2    11.7    17.9         65
Total Technical
Assistance               13.1      27.3   40.5    12.0    24.R    36.R         6R
Project-Related Operating Costs
Salaries and wages                  6.7      0.7    7.5      6.1      0.7     6.R        10
Materials                           3.4      0.4    3.8      3.1      0.3     3.4        10
Travel                              1.7      0.2    1.9      1.5      0.2     1.7        10
Other                               4.0      0.4    4.4      3.6      0.4     4.0        10
Subtotal                   15.R       1.8   17.5    14.4      1.6    15.9         10
Total Base Cost                      32.9     41.2   74.1    29.9    37.5    67.3          56
Physical contingencies              2.6      2.8    5.4      2.4      2.5     4.9        51
Price contingences                  8.6     11.7   20.2      7.8    10.6    1R.4         58
Total Project Cost         44.1      55.6   99.7    40.1    50.6    Qn.7          56
Projlect preparation facility         0.0      0.4    0.4      0.0      0.4     0.4
TOTAL COST /b              44.1      56.0  100.1    40.1    51.0    91.1          56
/a Discrepancies in totals are due to rounding.
7W Includes USS3.2 million taxes and duties.



- 24 -
Table 5: FINANCINC PLAN
IBRD
Govern-                    share (Z)
Category of expenditures                      mentla  IBRD    Total/a  (exclusive
----7USS mIm) ----         of taxes)
Civil works                                     2.9     0.8       3.7       25
(0.3)            (0.3)
Equipment, furniture and materials              5.0     8.3      13.3       64
(0.3)             (0.3)
Consultants                                     2.5    22.1      24.6      100
(2.5)             (2.5)
Overseas training                                -     15.6      15.6       100
Local training                                   -      8.0       8.0      100
Project related operating costs                20.6      -       20.6        0
Project preparation advance                      -      0.4       0.4      100
Unallocated (physical contingencies)            2.0     2.9       4.9       61
(0.1)             (0.1)
Total                                     33.0    58.1      91.1        66
(3.2)             (3.2)
/a   Figures in parentheses show estimated taxes included in totals.
2.47      Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million would be provided to
cover project expenditures incurred after appraisal, i.e., from November 30.
1985. These include start-up costs of the Project Director's Office, local
instructor training and preparation of the first group of staff to be trained
overseas.
Annual Costs
2.48      The development budget for training activities of the MOM for
1985/86 was about US$48 million but the actual expenditure was about US$25
million. The 1986/87 development budget. is reduced to about US$20 million.
The annual total project development cost of about US$13 million total would
represent the major part of the current development budget for training but it
would replace rather than add to existing activities. The average counterpart
budget of about Rp. 6 billion per year is regarded by Bappenas as reasonable
and acceptable even in the face of expected budget stringency. The routine
budget for training activities for 1986/87 is approximately Rp 6.3 billion, an
increase of about 30X over that of 1985/86. The increase is due mainly to
increased personnel costs. The long-term effect of the project on the routine



- 25 -
budget will be an increase of approximately Rp 2 billion per year for training
materials, travel and other support costs for the upgraded training. This
increase will be more than balanced by reduction in the development budget on
the completion of project activities. A significant part of the future
routine costs should be carried by fees charged for specialist and upgrading
training for industrial employees.
Procurement
2.49      Consultant services would be arranged in packages procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Training overseas would be arranged by the
Ministry for groups of staff using the services of international and national
agencies. Civil works contracts for adaptation and small extensions would
cost less than US$1.0 million each. Based on experience in Indonesia,
contracts of this size in dispersed sites would not be attractive to foreign
construction companies; therefore, the contracts of total value of about
US$3 million would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in.
accordance with government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Equipment required for specialist and advanced skills and computers would be
grouped to the extent possible in packages to facilitate bulk procurement and
packages estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (estimated value US$12.4 mil-
lion) would be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank guidelines. In the comparison of bids for equipment
and furniture, local manufacturers would be extended a margin of preference of
15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or the actual custom duties,
whichever is lower. Furniture and equipment packages for small hand tools and
other small items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (estimated value
US$1.5 million) and which, because of content, are not expected to interest
foreign suppliers, would be awarded on the basis of LCB advertised in
accordance with government procurement procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Other equipment arranged in packages not exceeding US$25,000 in value
and aggregating less than US$0.75 million equivalent would be purchased on the
basis of quotations from a minimum of 3 suppliers. Books, computer software
and other instructional materials would be procured through direct purchase,
after negotiations for the lowest price. A breakdown of project ex.jenditure
by procurement category is given in Table 6. Prior Bank review of oidding
documents and proposed contract awards would be required for all contracts for
equipment awarded on the basis of ICB, estimated to cost about US$12 million
(84% of the value).
Disbursements
2.50      The proposed loan of US$58.1 million would be disbursed over a
period of 7 years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 25Z of the
cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, furni-
ture and materials, 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equip-
ment, furniture and materials, 65% of the cost of imported equipment, furni-
ture and materials procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of consultants and
fellowships and (d) refunding of the project preparation advance. To the
extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of
the proceeds of the loan.



- 26 -
2.51      Disbursements for civil works, miscellaneous equipment and furniture
item, books, computer software and other instructional materials and local
fellowship training, in packages of up to US$25,000, would be based on
statements of expenditure. Supporting documents would be retained and made
available for review by visiting Bank missions. All other disbursements would
be made against full documentation. Local training costs would be reimbursed
on the basis of agreed unit costs which would be reviewed annually. The
disbursement schedule (Annex 11, Table 4) has been based on the implementation
schedule and the disbursement profiles for education projects in the country
and Region modified only to reflect a seven-year disbursement period instead
of the average of nine for past projects. The shorter disbursement period is
justified by the advanced stage of project preparation, particularly the
procurement of technical assistance, planning and budgeting and establishment
of the Project Director's Office (para. 2.41).
Table 6: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total cost
including all
contin-
Category of expenditure                  ICB        LCB       Other/a  gencies/b
Civil works                                -         4.0        -            4.0
(0.9)                   (0.9)
Equipment, furniture and
materials                              12.1        1.5       0.8          14.4
(8.0)     (0.9)      (0.4)         (9.3)
consultants /c                             -          -       26.0          26.0
(23.4)       (23.4)
Overseas training fellowships              -          -       16.2          16.2
(16.2)       (16.2)
Local training fellowships                 -          -        8.3           8.3
(8.3)        (8.3)
Project related operating costs            -          -       22.2          22.2
(-)          (-)
Total                            12.1        5.5      73.5          91.1
(8.0)     (1.8)    (48.3)         (58.1)
/a   Other procurement includes:  recruitment of consultants, placement of
staff in training, and project-related operating costs, e.g., payments of
honoraria, materials, local travel costs.
/b   Values in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan including
price and physical contingencies. The inclusion of physical
contingencies accounts for the discrepancy between these values and the
amounts shown in Table 5.
/c   Includes project preparation advance.



- 27 -
Reporting and Audit
2.52      Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by the Project
Director's Office. The accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank. The units concerned would sub-
mit to the Bank within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year,
statements reflecting the financial performance and position of the project
together with auditors' reports including separate audit of accounts relating
to disbursement against statements of expenditure. Six months after the
Closing Date, the MOM would submit to the Bank a project completion report
covering all project components. Assurances were given by the Government at
negotiations that it would comply with these arrangements.
Benefits and Risks
2.53      The main benefits would be: (a) improved labor market and manpower
information and planning systems at national and provincial levels; (b) more
effective management of training and establishment of a national training
system -- occupational standards, skills standards and tests and a joint
industrial vocational training scheme; (c) upgrading of basic training and
establishment of a capacity for training about 20,000 people each year in key
skills and occupations at advanced levels and in specialist skills;
(d) improved efficiency in utilization of training resources; and (e) devel-
opment and improvement in the key areas of in-plant industrial training,
training for self-employment and the informal sector, and mobile training. As
well as making an impact in these areas, the project would include
arrangements for monitoring of costs and outcomes to provide experience on
which to base later substantial long-term developments.
2.54      The main risk is possible delay in implementation.  To lessen this
risk detailed consideration was given to matching the project scope to the
resources and implementation capacity of MOM, and to the arrangements for
project management and monitoring (paras. 2.30 to 2.33). In addition,
arrangements have been agreed for continuing the existing East Java regional
program of technical assistance through loan financing of an extension to the
UNDP-ILO project to ensure the presence of consultants from the outset of the
project (para. 2.40). Project activities have been designed in detail and
agreement reached on a system for close Bank monitoring including detailed
review of annual plans and budgets.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      At negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a) annual staff development plans will be prepared, in consultation
with the Bank, for the key organizational units for all project
activities, and staff and counterpart teams will be appointed in
accordance with such plans (para. 2.10);
(b)  annual plans and budgets would be prepared in consultation with the
Bank, and the project would be carried out in accordance with such
plans and budgets (para. 2.33);



- 28 -
(c) candidates for overseas training would be selected in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.35);
and
(d) accountm would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices and six months after the Closing Date the MOM would submit
to the Bank a project completion report (para. 2.52).
3.02      As a condition of loan effectiveness the Government should:
(a)  appoint staff to the agreed key posts in the Project Director's
Office (para. 2.31).
3.04      Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$58.1 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia repayable over 20 years, including a grace period of five years,
at the standard variable rate.



- 29 -
CaAflw mm tAnTIOu IDICATo
April 14 1986
C-VERN12W
_pmina    EDcATiom                             COMFLITION            ammanz 
ONl DUCATION  REO'IRREN      ADULT              RATIE POE            UNIT COST  PUkOCRE8SOU
cmr FErCAS PZNT fR XPEbIIDTURS  L1TERACY FRIAS  IPRIMATR                         PRIWART  PRIMART    RATE PROM   SEcNDART SECONDARY NICKCR
AM  POP. COiTA  PERrT  CNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCTED TOt tATE               ENROLL. SCIIOOL     STUDNTS EDCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENRDLL.  STDnTS  ENROLL.
R" MILUS. CULSS)   DrnlrTD TO  cOVEcRS           PHI  scC  Ni    CZ)   RATIO   CYCLE         PER       *  PERCERT S      rCfDAlY   RATIO  PER        RATIO
t . 971(9)  7Sgh } crtCATIOl  VxcPEDmM           (1)       t 1476)   t2 S1      tS)     TCANCxII  GC -/CALP1TA   ( C        ( S     TUAICt        (S1)
_I(1)     (2)        (3)          (4)           ()          (Ce        71)     (Ct)        (9)        (103        (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEELOEZIXO ClUtRIES
Al!SltALL          so    14.6b  8.R70      6.3m        14.6         - -       -- ~            1032     too         21       -             99          t3        13      2"..o
CWAD               RI    23.7b  q.65ob    7.7a         1R 5my       n-? 3A-t 238?   s9b      tofix     l00         21       19.447       [on          92-       la      22.60x
GCCIIIWI  P.R.     79    61.2  12.200      4.6          9.9d             _   --      nb       ngm      Iroo         _        _           loom         S^       -        12.10M
WTMLNS             79    1".    O^                      5.         20   15   25      99br     46        q5         is        15.}         99          87       13       12 40
RO ~~~~s SCLD 8        .b6081b   75.5-            11d          7   31   2x      nb"       o       In          2^        1.           o           Q         1        5R"
MMD ZSALAIU32   0:90                         9         1].                                    Ia        a           4        .:           o                                   r
9 -ir I ~     7      1l.3  1 Z.250    g. O        I.2         1 1   10   to     q9b       x"      100         In.       14.9        too          7^x       IO J    36.50xP
EASTERN AFRICA
NUJ1R        I      3     1ob1      20b    6.0         Z2.4   *     1   34   22      4o      iron       77         32       In.0          40          20       21        I.R0
MM   I             at     *.2      235     2.11b.      19.0       13   28   27       25       29        is1        37       20.2          12          3j       17        I.W0
013620             U      0.4b    345      3. f        2s.n        49   29   22       9       Jb        *0         19       -             *5          16       2x        O.hO
Dfl3OL'I           84     0.4      480     1.0         11.9        73   26   ...    10        42       6e          40       67.0          40          In      139        0.0
nClOLA             el    32.8b    z&ob    2.P          1.1 1        5   25   20      S3       42        30o        63        19.3         43          14      4L         0.45
KENA               82    174b    2ob 06     "b        Zo.jb       65   16   13      48b     113        58         36        14.4         3s          Is       26        -
1.5502             82      .46b   433b    S.5          16.9        38   32   26      h3b    136X        41         48        9.6          46          21       231       1.30
MADAGASCA          77     3.5      330     4.0"        24.0        53   23   19      50       @b6       33         ,5b       8.0          38          14       23        3.103b
MALAnI             SI     6.1b    230b    3.3          13.4        38   14   25      rib      62        23         65         5.6         12           4       21        0.40
nuIRIS             63     1 ob  1.170b    4.3         13.0         46   36     7 t    0b      93        72         23       133n         100          50       22        [An
RIIUDA             33     569b    27gb    3.6          27.4        71   16   13      376      65        30         40       16.0           a           5       36        0.40
sRzVUSUiWu         79     0.6   1.770      5.9         22.4-       348 33   10       -        --        -          25       -             -           -        -        -
S3L.IA             81     4.5      230    135          10.3 s       0b  46b  bb    Sob        22b       Bob        29b        .Ob         Bb          32b      22        I.no
SUDA               sn    19.26    360b    3.0          -           66   39   ...    32        SI1       66         34         3.4         14 as                16
lAZXUmil           *3    og7b    shob    3.3pb         20.4        51   34   15      65b      93        50         33        33.0         98          29        I3 z3.no
TANZ1ANI           30    13 5      260     5.9         17.7        47   10  Ib       79b      gab       67         43        11.0         jb           3       20-       0.30
UCAIDA             8o    12.6b    300b    -            16.13       23b  37b  2nb    a          54"      61         14       -             17           5       23        0.60
ZAIRZ              at    25.6b    230b    7.7          26.4       -    -    10       5,b      7A        25         30       21.0          40          t3       26        2.00
ZASIA              30     5.7b      h6b    4 ;p        11.1        48   23   22      44b      95        so         a        12.9          19          36       22        1.50
ZIOAZW             SI     7.7b    700b    5.3          19.5       62   32    6       44b      90        55         19       20.0          R5          Is       23        0.50
VESTERN AFRCAL
_-Xii              79     3.4b    3206    6.5          35.0       43   21    s    ib          62        30        46        14.0          30          13       43        3.00O
301A3              63     6.5      2106    2.13        21.7       43   29   28       9        16        25         57       Z4.3          16           3       24        0.03
CAIRO              73     8.2      590     2.5s        14.07       338  418  20"   -          74Y       456        SO5       113.3        20"         34)      26        1.30r
C.A.R.             79   2.2  280   3.11)r   20.6 r   -  --   -                                -         -          65xY   -               -          -         -         0.7n4r
CRID               7b     4.6      120     2. 6b       21.7b      -    _     -      t5        25)       -          77       -             -            3x'     21        0.20n
01300              78     1.5      670     9.0"Y       27.7"?      -                -                                b-  -  566  -        30         -         43b6      4.00")
CASON              77     0.6   3.420      3.76)'       3.47                    -                       -          46br     -             -           -        39_29by    238
GAMmA              77     0.6      220     3.3"'        6.36        6   258   0"   3n6        46 ob     90         27br     4.7"          40          lzb.7    17        -
03RA4              76    11.3      40      4.01        1535b       -    --_  -      -         73b6r    -           27br    -              -           36b'?    21        -
cUCS               79     5.3      290P    44.28       -           258  26"  248   20         34        36         38       2n.0"'        63          16       29        7400"
IVORF COAST        83    9,3b    720       7.3         42.4        5    40    9    33")       72        79         37       29.0          49         22xz      30        1.a
LIBENIA            s0     1.9      520     4.6         19.4       43   23   24    30          32        32         35       20.0          76         22        20        2.90
MALI               a1     7.ob    190    46.P          231.7       36   21   33    10         20        60        44        15.7          66           1       II        0.9057
MAURITANIA         78     1.6b    320b    5.5          16.9        33   63   25    17b        32        60         44       52.0          30           9       23        0.37
NICER              84     5.2      300     2.4         21.0        40   25   20    14         25        20         36       41.0          37           b       28        0.50
Nic-A              83    93.2b    760b    7.41         16.0        -    -    13    36         93        70         36       19.5          47         23        30        2.00
SENEGUA            77     5.5      450     5.0         23.0       46   34   20    1o          36b7y    -          43br    -               20          In       21        2.20by
SIERA La3          77     3.4      250     4.0b        16.ob      -    -     -      15b       37'       -          35       25.0b   U      4          IS3      22        0.60br
TOCO               78     2.4      40      6.59W       26.59       30"  23"  218   18         74        40         54by     383.          52         32bx6    tgb        1.6oby
LATIN AxMICA Anm ToE GARIRIAM
AVASENTIr          73    27.3   2.210      2.7         30.9        438  338  13-   93b        89        52         17       -             87          31        R       23.00
UU3AL*A            79     0.2   2.770      5.7         19.1        36   36  13    93b         w9        97        24        -             97         75        19      -
ARROS              73     0.2   2.66o      3.""S)      22.13       43   31"  16"  g9b        3o0r       998       27'       39.9Y         9"         73R       207      --
30L4.11            s0     5.4      550     4.3-r       3015       -     -     -     63        74T       -         20r       -             -          315       -        12.60r
XtAZIL             79   116.5   1.770      3.8          4.2        51   -    14    76         73"?      -         2317       4,5b    bl-              358)     34-x    12342b
C031.              76    30.    1. 890     3.2b        13.06b      -         -      -        3396by    -           34b      -             -           55bx     20b6    l1.907b
COLOa A            6     2  7b  1 .        3.3         25.0        35   20   20    83b        76        36        32         6.6          -          *7        20       301.02
COSTA RICA         8o     2.2b  I ag6b   8.4           31.1        60   27  31    90          93        77         33        5.5          77         40        27       14.00
co"                78     0.8      -       6.0         11.0       -    -     -      3f  1 "2?ty   q96             3s6       -                        7      qh  7bx  i5  19.o2bT
DDa7X W.    60            5.3   1.030      2.9         13.0        39   21   22    Ab         s0        31         59        3.2          94         30        33       16.00
XCCAIIR            60     8.4b  1.llo      4.0P        36.7        A5   31   16    8l        105        -          34       12.6          36         47        34       29.00
EL SALVADO         77     6.4      640     3.4by       2331by     64    6   27    62          82bUr    32          39       -             61         26b63     27by      7.90by
cUATDIALA          78     6.8   1.010        17        12.6b       -    -    -      -         69b0'     -          35by     -             69          35b6     196by     5.50)
cnak               74     0.6      630     6.36by      13.8 670    -    -    -      -         9bxy    -            32b6     -             -            0bxr    --        3.007b
MAITX              60     5.0b    230      3 4V         7.9mY     65    9    6    23b         50        20        41        19.0          42-         4"       27       o0a.
NORi_RAB           73     3.6      520     3.56b      134. b       62"  I"  19-   60          89b.7    30"        41b7      12.86         6"-        231Y      19       8aner
JAMACA             60     2.3   1.110      6.3         13.7        37   Al   20    90         98        98         40        2.3          95         81        22        6.00
IISICD             80    65 5   1.R3o      4.7         17.0"       46   39   is    92         96        53        64         9.5          86         54        I?       30.30
xICARAGA           78     2.6b    6106    3.0bw        14.06      -     -     -    gob        85b6      26         37b      -             -          26bx      306
IPAAMA             73     1.8b  1 550b    5 5b"        21.68b     42"  133  13    82b         qsb9r     -         25by      13.6          ass        506b      27b      20.40nbr
PAAUAT             79     3.0   1.140      I.4,        14.2        42   17  20    84          83        32        28         3.1r         76         22        12        0.70
PM                 80    16.6   1.000      3.6         14.3        53   35   19    80         83        56        39         9.8          89         39        22       14.40)
TINIDAD 6 TO.   77        1.1   3.910      4.8by        8.sb6      48   32   20    95         96        91         30       in.5?         49         62        24       -
UNCOA              7x    239   2.500       2.5          9ab        -     -   -      94       105bx      -          24b       _            -           4bx      --       17.8017
VEREEL             78    14.4   3.440      5.17        1g,9b       -     -     -   82        306bx      -          28       -             -_         3Sb6      17       21z.il



- 30-
AI
Pare 2
alWAaATzV SbUcAflU INDICATORS
April 134 198
_~~ S
UPzpunum         EIScAfolw                    CneLrTIId            REorS
On UNICAYTION   IRWRRNY      ALTML            RIATE FOR            LI'M! 05?  puoimspulo
CR? SR              AS pCUITr   AUIDrTVRE   LITERAy P51MB  PR11LMW PQCV1   Pn8                       AYPRNT  JA M   UME  SOMMUI NUtIUR
lAM   PoM   CAPrYA  FENCERS CeP TOTAL CTRAL AUOCASTae t RATE            ENROLL. CemoL        TUSD33s SUCATIOu  PRIMA    TO  UnROLL.  UST      T   E1iOLt.
Ala                      3.3 TV"    DeCD sn  e nLLc. (USE3     I4 D 3 OESMIU  F oRI EZ)   RATIO   CUru  PER  AS PERcIsI  EOIAEV    RATIO  PERt    RATIO
C1479) (1q79)   RUCATtON  83IUtTI'RE          (2)        (1976)   (2)        (2)    TtACOI   0N/cAPIrA        (2)         (l    TEAsER        (El
(1)     (2)       (3)           (4)          (5)         (I)       (7)       I8)       (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)      (13)    (3')
CMAS ASIA AND THEC rACIPC
ClilbA            *1 T.-Us nb    3job    3.i           7.1       38   40   22      77h       77       62        25         b O         65          35        17       4.10
I UA              AS*  150 sb    520      2.1          9.3       70   24    6      32b      9         63        37       1834          74          2?       21        3.70
XOSA              12    gq*hb 3I63hh    7.W7          20.8        34   34   31     96        99      9g          4)       89.0         95          54        33      21.10
MALAYSIA          3*    I:S2b  1370h    6.3           36.7        30" 43W  399    70b        973      97         26       1 .59        19          72       22        4.0o
PAPUA N.C.        33      3.9R    820      5.4        19.0       40   17   22      -         60       73-        313      153.n          5         18I8     27X      3100
PMILIPPI2         79    48.3b    4901    2.99         14.0       64 V6   -         75b       a        65        31         7.I        5m           51       IA       21.00
SICAPOR           o       2 4   4.420     2.7          6.7       39   40   16      R]        92       52         33        8.3         94          55       22        1.00
SINMIN IQ.        82      0.26    640   I.SP-        1jq01,      &  14   20        *5        78       sO        27        10.5         40          20        l8       2.50
TSAXAN            32    49.ob    Sh    ].4            20.3       59   14  I8       *fhb     al        AM         21        9.3'              4     4         3I       4.0
SOM1 ASIA
RANGLAOU          79    92.3b      90    IjIP         In038      51   17   20      22b       63?      -         53         5.6                     14       23        1.43
S2uN              so      1.2      so      3.6        11.0       -    -    -          12              -           _                                              
IMIA              77  659.6       210     2.Qy         9.9"      -     -     -     36        79"      -         63        -            -           213      -         5.30'
lcrAL             82    :S.06b    3o6    3.4         -           -     -     -     19        70       -          3        -                        21        23       3.70'
PAKISTAN          82    g7*3h    38b    2.0            7.0       38   20  24       22        50       41         30        5.9          56         23        i5 3s00
DrcS. NIDDL EUSY AND Ml          RIcA
AIS WANISYAN      77    25.5      -        1.7         3.7       41   19   15      12        33b9     69         376      -             62          a        2267     1.007
AECUA             79    IN.3   1.770       3.99       12.3       36-  26-  213   35         8a        45'        37        7.0?         558        29?       26       3.707
RSvP              82    43.32    65'   4.6"            7.9       31-  35   26'   44          755      R0o        34-       9.1          33        4*r        19"     17.00
CRM                76     9.3   4.140      2.69       30.6b       37   26   21     -         9767     -          20b       1.2?         -          79x       2767    17J0h1
1IRA              79    36.9      -       5.7'7       1&.1'7     -       -  -      50       30"-      -         32        -            -           4        26'       4.90
IRUQ              79    22.6   2..7        4.3'r       6.9Y       _   __    -      -                                                               4S        2 -  28  -  4 29  9.20'
QR335             33 D46  4*480           6.3?        3 15.5'    -     -     -     98        93       94        29        -            98          61        14      33.00
JOIUA             81      2.26  3.420h    6.9"        10.2        19  4A   INI     7b        57       85         32       15.1         -           57        35       6.90
8hAWS             79  2.3   -    -                    18.6-7  -  _-                - _        0   -              19    -                -          46    -    27.501'
=}MDrDC           "     213.b    670b    6.0"        22.9        38   43   19      35       573       9         53       15.1          -          86        J        ,.9o,
ON"               52    0o 9b  5.920b    2.5'"          2. '                       30b7      7ij      65         25       -             R6         it        14      ...
PORTUGAL L9 n             q9b 2j 060      3.6         22 2       5025    11        75        97       20         191      12.3         55'         45-       17'      II.3
IAZ               76    22.1   2.300       3.9br       6.27      -     -     -     9r       iosbs     -         23b       -            98    5      Bb6     n2b      10o.60b
SPAD              76    37.0   4.920      2.1My       16s.       -    -    -       -         986b      -        29b       -            -           67b7     -        24.lobY
SYRIA             78      8.4   1.170     4.4P        20.3       35   25   26      58        87b6     s0         35b      -             64         4jb6      jb      12.60
TIUISIA           79      6.4   1.330      7.01       19.4       42   59   as  1b2b         3x        s8o       29b       12.8          30         30'       i0       6.00
SiVn              33      47.5  1.230      3.3        16.2        50   22   24     75b    3l3         77         31        6.0          55         26       13        8.00
*U   A.R.         so      6.8     420      5.099      12.0       94    7    7      236       37       82'       313       67.0         as           3        20       1.30
TOR P.D.R.        32      2.0b    420b    7.6          9.7       63-  84'  5'    53          61       34         25       22.04         AG         17        20       2.50
5366CW FM DRVEWPI8S WOTRIES:-
Mefmor of Cantrio.:                     U6              93      70   69   67      R3       92        6i5       95        65            75         9I       ra       55
Raos                                    (I.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (6-  (5-    (5-       (22-     (12-       C37-      (1.4-        20l-        (-       (5-      (0.03-
10.0)         54.3)  94)  46)  33)    99)         91)       )         77)      67.0)         Ion)       34)      44)      29.0)
Qartnll: Spoor:                           5.6          21.7      51   36   22      UI       95       an         43      2D             87         47        26     13.0
Iadian:                       4.0           16.1     43   25   19      53       53        fl        35       13            65          26       22       3.7
Lamer:                        3.0           11.0     38   21   13      25       60        35        28        9            *0         13        I0        1.0
Qurtllo Ds,l nao:                         1.3           5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   25.0       19.0     22.1        7.0      5.6         23.5        16.5       3.5       5.0
_o_:                                     4.6           17.0    46   28  13    53            76       59         36       16            62         31        21       6.0
Standard       t                          1.9           5.7      12   30    7     29        27       2A         11       13            27         23         7       7.4
10dIa:                                    4.0          16.0     43  2      3 1    5 3       33       41         35       13            65         26       22        3.7
SYSt                                                                  nOs:
-    DATUM UUAVALAML                                                    A - DATUM PRR TO RISE TEAs          S         - Mm31TRY OP UICATlO   (ICE) oML
. Acn.  E 5cOL o0  RRcLICLZ                                        R - DAWN MORS RECCII  1AN RISE Y14R       Y - IME aD STATE COVEMsENY OILY
DATUM OUECMSnALZ                                                      - CURRET PRIE                          U - PLIC WcE-DITURlE ONrLY
rpCOImS P57TUTIE STUCiEm                                            S - IME? UROUNS? RATI0                     K - INCLUSE  OVES-ACE EUET
c - GRr oELN LS'? RATIO                   I - 0338       n Q SOURCES
P - GOP
SWinzt          Clva 3 *sd 2: ibrld ark Atla or Educago, matter field u iota m.
CA1na 3 to 34: 'rlud  nk   u-taon aetor               -o.    ernoc *ure- oSor the Into itatioeaol Toorbb.
bmratlw  Edmtioo DUoa are  soeb- lo  In tie a, laion of emm   dacatlomn so7sta  and malysto of relotie otqps of adocattonal dewolopent bsato    yCrlasp
couartaam. Roeear* e tho b_i-l of tho pr    t data. crosm-nsatnool cWaartmo  sohld be approached with groat cotion.  Dora prromotd In the 'bo.   tble k-
blan collacd largely by Sait olmoies from tr rrnmot eoorco:  tim  rom_ndr are staff etatoa  or data from It_oo. rEforts tan boan a.d to *taadardl,e
deftoitita  ad. withim lIsd-.t to chock the  crcerer a of et  data.  Nwebolo._. ouch datso a 0 s1 i perfect in mr el r_oemta as rho moak ta wo rIsax to
i_o. o  thu prugrm.aio.ly -  trm ocele  o, f Ira  ermrtonal   r,  In toh   -n  of teo. dat. tho following qalifl,cation  abhld be hkpt n Isod:
(1)    EdoAtio  -  d defl td in 16e taba; lncldma all aducacio and traninga. bhtu tornl and ro_tor_l.
(2)   'Pri'or  admtio  refer., to aiuratio at rho fit2r le1ss!sand  a_rndar  eduocation reform  0 all odoario  at toe                    le,r1l rogardlea of typa
(-.l. amoral. toebta201. arrmltmr).
(3)    Llteracy rae.o  (col. 6  ore oft." obradood frm coontry c. eane.  In many countrrs they or. oly approtiestlen  ead lt 1a doubtfu1 Thbt-an  mtonfer,
defilamito  of 'literaet ba- bom  folloimd conslatnrcly.
(4)    Pmhltc  xpaie dtturo in aduocat20u  (cl.. A  nd 5) referm  to a11 capita   nd roeurront oxpaod1ture, dawtod to  ducatien by publ2c and *e_a-Puhble
(5)   areol7net reclo- (clo. 7. 12 nd 14) rotor to scbool yar nd are, rho parcontae of eligibla cildra  ""nrllea full-te, 1n the appropriate school.
pablic sad pridata, bl -_1.  Stim   ore oftan aubjct to o wide  erutn of orror In trh  dewolopina  coontrIa  oing to wariationm to tbh  acracy of hose
dota (i.e. *g-plf1c poulartion and enrolt tnt).  Earllimot fir.. f-rauntly arb hilihr tbho  rho _I  r of  tuter  ascually  o *chool.
Oor-oad mteets, my be sncludd in tibeo ftgro  nd can Inflate rho roten.



- 31-                               ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Projections of Skilled Manpower Requirements
During Repelita IV
1.        The figures in Tables 1 and 2 project the probable orders of magni-
tude of two kinds of manpower requirements during the five years 1984-89.
Both projections were derived by first assuming total employment growth in
each of the sectors considered and multiplying this growth by the expected
proportion of employees in each of the occupational and skill categories. The
proportion coefficients came from a statistical analysis of the occupational
composition of employment in a number of developed and developing countries.
2.        Table 1 presents the projections for the 5-year requirements in
seven basic industrial trades; they are large because the Government's plans
for industrial growth during Repelita IV are ambitious.
3.        Table 2 presents estimates of the occupational composition of
formal-sector employment growth only, in recognition of the likelihood that
the method may be more valid for this than for total employment growth with
its large non-formal component (see Table 1). As with the figures in Table 1,
the assumptions underlying the calculations indicate the need for caution in
their use for policy-making. In the absence of data on occupation by sector
in the base-year, the Zymelman coefficients (more often used to calculate the
stock of each category in each sector required in the target year) have been
applied to the projected increase in employment in each sector over the plan
period. In so far as the stock of skilled workers in the base year was below
international norms this would tend to underestimate the economy's requirement
for an increase in that stock. On the other hand, training requirements
cannot be inferred directly from these tables, which merely show the
approximate required numbers of workers in these occupational categories.
Their main value is to indicate the huge scale of possible growth in demand
for skilled workers, much greater than the known training capacity in the
public and private sectors.



- 32 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
New Skilled Worker Requirement (Selected Occupations)
For Selected Sectors of Manufacturing Industry and Construction, 1984-89
Metal,
Selected          machinery                 Wood.&                      Total
occupations        & related    Textiles   furniture    Construction   rounded
Cabinet making
& carpentry          5,000        1,000   280,000/a         64,500   351,000/a
Drafting               3,500          500      1,000           1,000     6,000
Electrical            13,000        1,500     1,000           17,000    33,000
Mechanics &
machine shop       84,000         7,000      7,500           8,500   107,000
Piping, plumbing,
& sheet metal      23,000             -     1,000           20,000    44,000
Welding              25,000           500      1,000           2,500    29,000
Bricklayer & Mason    2,500           500     1,500           41,000    46,000
Total new         500,000       400,000   470,000          430,000         -
employment
(All levels
and occupations)
/a Includes semiskilled workers.
Source:  Occupational distribution from M. Zymelman:  "Forecasting Manpower
Demand," World Bank, July 1980. Sectoral employment increases based
on the 1980 Indonesian input/output table; assumed growth rates of 52
p.a. except for metals industry where an 8Z and wood where a 6%
growth from 1984 have been assumed. Construction industry employment
growth from Table 1.



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project6d Employment Growth in Formal Sector During Repelita IV, by Occupation
Mining     Mfg.    Const.       Trans,    Trade    Finance  Services    Total
Professional & Technical           500      8,900     5,300      5,200      1,400    3,300    60,000        84,600
Engineers & technicians          300     4,100      4,300      1,200        300      550      5,000       15,750
Engineers                      150     1,800      1,900        400         75      230      1,550        6,100
Technicians                    100     2,250      1,900        700        250      270      2,650        8,100
Accountants                       25        930       275        350        250      950      1,200        4,000
Administrators 6 Managers          300    11,400      4,800      4,800    29,000    3,100    24,000         77,300
Clerlcal                           200    20,500      4,800    12,400       5,850   28,500    75,400       147,650
Sales workers                       50     8,000        300        800    60,800    5,000       3,600       78,500
High skilled sales                15      3,050       150        500      1,350    1,000      2,700        8,750
Manual Workers                   9,500   333,100   180,300   107,100    27,000   18,000   645,000   1,320,000
Foremen & supervisors            400      4,000       750        350        175       100     5,150       10,925
Construction                     700     5,525   1079000         600        300       50    19,000       133,200
metal                            200    36,500      3,700      1,000        100        50     7,500       49,000
Transportation                   600     4,650      3,900    65,950       1,200       180    15,000       91,500
Mechanics & repairmen            500      8,200     1,250      2,750        450        70    37,700       50,900
Industry specific              6,200   202,900      7,500      1,700     4,600       600    45,000      268,500
Laborers                         650    25,000    40,000    14,600        3,300    1,000    30,000       114,300
Service workers                  250    10,000      3,500      7,500    16,250   10,000   394,800        442,;00
Total Employment Growth   11,000   390,000   1945000   138,000   127,000   58,0O0   810,000   1,728,000
Source:  Binagram, Ministry of Manpower, Nov. 1984.  Based on coefficients in Appendix I of M. Zymelman,
op. cit., and on formal sector employment growth as in Table 1.
t"Jf%



INDONESIA
MANPOWER OMELOPMENI AND IMINING PROJECT
Organhzao1on Sluctu, dofte M(V of Manpaw
&PAM     0                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d m  a~
d
DkwkW~~~~~~ d ~~d Med_
pmown    &"* a                              FOMMI~~~~~~~~~eAb'O.iqme 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ _I
t  NW.~Wdbs ~sV~ d  mWIlw*ff ~ be e~#~ ~eIh t   daci.*$MM                              "o
I  ateWGldd  |                                     |  iaGldr |fte
d                                                                                      I g  l  I 
13                                                             1OM
.~~~~~N                                                                                        MM _
iG3X[X1~~~~~of                                                                       dto
Noft. *mbd bo    ft_wmtfWfibdmiwwd-v   A
1w1 S S |Cdl f wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o||Gr 



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND lRAINING PROJECT
Organlzaotknl Shuctur d RegWnl Manpower Oke
Hs.d d~ RsgIcl
MwvofolceI
Technod=
Coonb
'DothCoilcton        a t_
Smbn              SBcfFn           Secio             Seo                _c
F'h" 9&                             rf*f             Ed_ P _          .of   t
_oavf               P _ Pent     _     Ope k_         Mdn _tf              & YouW
M"C        &  |    ab    ihtef   |.ck                     lolbRh|
Sectio        |mt                m       l       & C"*hf            seto
idalcln-27766                           rw



MANPOWUR DEVYLOPHENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Labor Market and Manpower Planning Informatlon Systems
Staff Training Fellowships:  1986/87-1991/92
Approx. no.
of persons          TraininR Fellowships - Man-years ,iy Year & Total
Nature and objectives of training                                    trained       l95bIui7 1957/58  1955/1'  lYf/   I99U/91  1991/9Z  Total
Overseas
V.8. dip ow and KA/MSc courses (two years)                                30          6       12        12       12        12        6         60
and for two persons Ph.D. programs (four years) in manpower
planning, labor economics and public administration - to
raise the level of analytical, planning and management
capacity for responsible staff of planning offices
Local                                                                                                                                                          w
l  oCurseas  Diploma and KA/MSc courses in manpower planning,             42          0         8       16        16       16         8        64
iaor economics, public administration - same objective as
overseas courses
Short Courses: 1-3 months: Specialist techniques Including
planning; labor market analysis; survey and statistical techtniqueas;
evaluation and monitoring; identification of training needs and
training methodology fort
(a)  Central and regional manpower planning staff of                 1,000        20        40       60        60        40       20        240
Kinistry of Manpower
(b)  Staff of other ministries                                        850         10        20       20        20        20       10        100
(Notes includes training workshops for users of outputs
of manpower planning)
Language Trainings  Normally 6 months, for staff awarded                  50          5        5         5        5         5        -         25
fellowships for overseas training



INDONESIA
KANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Labor Market and Manpower Plannina Information Syatems
Schedule of Consultant Services, International (Int.) and Domestic (Do*.) 1986/87-1991/92
Schedule of inputs (man-years)
1986/87       1987/88        1988189        1989/90       1990/91         1991/92        Total
Task                                     Int.   Do..   Int.   Don.   Int.   Dow.   lot.   Don.   Int.   Dom.   Int.   Don.    Int.  Dom.
Sentor Consultant/Tea. leader:
Design, developmnt and Implementation
of planning systems. Advise on the
staff development program. Coordi-
nation with BAPPENAS and other
ministries.                          1.00    -     1.00    -      1.00    -      1.00    -     0.50    -      0.50    -      5.00
Specialist consultants in labor market and
manpower planning to assist with the
development and implementation of:
- evaluation and monitoring           0.25    -      0,25   0,50   0.25   0.50   0.25   0.50    -       0.50    -      0.50    1,00   2.50
- Identification of training
needs                               0.25    -      0.25   0.50   0,25   0.50   0.25   0.50    -       0.50    -       -       1.00   2.00
- labor market analysis and
signaling                            -       -     0.25   0.50   1.00   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.25   0.50    -        0.50    2.00   2.50
- processing of labor mrket
information                          -      1.00   0.25    -      0.50   0.50    -      0.50   0.25   0.50    -      0.50    1.00   3.00
Total                           1,50   1.00   2.00   1.50   3.00   2,00   2.00   2.00   1.00   2.00   0.50   1.50   10.00  16.00



- 38-                              ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Labor Market and Manpower Planning Information Systems
Schedule of Operations and Data Collection
1.     Nature of Data
Labor market data, to be collected, analyzed and used through the
project will include the following:
1.1    Employment and Labor Force
1.1.1.    Labor force data by industry and occupation
1.1.1(a)    Present labor force
1.1.1b)    Macro level projections
1.l.i(c)    Labor force data by subsector, including
education, training, skills, salaries, present
and proiections, e.g.:
Metal work industry and subsectors
Tettiles
Construction
Electronics
Agri-business (foods and materials processing)
1.1.1(d)    Informal sector (including trade, services, small
manufacturing and home industry) - structure,
activities, incomes
1.1.2.    Labor market indicators
1.1.2(a)    Qualitative indicators from development and
operation of ongoing programs (including pilot
programs) and from contacts with employers,
trainers, etc.
1.1.2(b)    Turnover and mobility of labor
1.1.2(c)    Employment, wages, hours of work and training
1.1.2(d)    Unemployment, visible underemployment and other
forms of under-utilization of labor
1.1.2(e)    Vacancies and placements
1.1.2(f)    Tmmigrant/expatriate workers
- work permit data by occupation, sector etc.
1.1.2(g)    Indonesian workers abroad-by occupation, sector
etc.
1.1.2(h) Tracer studies of graduates from
project-component training programmes
1.1.2(i)    Tracer studies of graduates from other education
and training programmes.



-39 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 2
1.2    Demand for Labor
1.2.1     Studies of operation of labor markets by occupation, sector,
subsector etc.
1.2.2     Training implications of new investment projects (government,
le--al/foreign/private) by region.
1.3    Manpower Supply
Information about intake, enrollment, output and cost, in relation to
the programs operated by:
1.3.1     Ministry of Education
1.3.2     Ministry of Manpower
1.3.3     Other government department training
1.3.4     Industrial in-plant training
1.3.5     Private training systems
2.     Schedule for Labor Market and Manpower Information System Operations
2.1    The system will be developed through a phased program of operations, as
follows:
2.1.1     Existing national data collection and utilization will
continue, with improvements in methodology and reliability
and usefulness for manpower planning purposes. Much of such
data collection is the responsibility of other agencies
(e.g., the labor force surveys carried out by BPS) and in
these cases the Ministry of Manpower will play an advisory
role.
2.1.2     Some new data and its analysis will be developed on a pilot
basis in only a limited number of regions and results
monitored before application in other regions and/or
nationally. The key informants and other monitoring systems
will be developed in this way. Pilot studies will also be
used to develop and improve survey methodology (e.g., in the
cases of the informal sector and longitudinal studies of the
labor market).
2.1.3     Comprehensive regional labor market and manpower studies will
be developed - initially in three regions only - East Java,
South Sulawesi and DKI Jakarta - and extended to other
regions in stages (Table I).
2.1.4     Industrial and occupational subsector studies will be
developed in key areas.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
2.2    The objectives will be:
2.2.1     The collection and analysis of relevant data for the
preparation of manpower and training policies and national
and regional programs for Repelita V, that is by 1989.
2.2.2     The development of a comprehensive national and regional
labor-market and manpower information system by 1991.
2.3    The schedule of operations and budgets will be reviewed annually.



INWON8SIA
IUNPOWIR DEVELOPtMNT AND TRAINING PROJCCT
Labor Market and Manpower PlanninX Information System
Schedule of Opnrationa by Nature and Reaion. 1986/87
1.1  Employment and labor force /a                                   1.2                                         Couprehmnuive
1.1.1                                       1.l.2                               Demand                  Supply                    regional
Province                  (a)   (b)   tc)   (d)   (a)   (b)   (c)   (d)   (e)   (f)   t8)   (h)   Mi)   t1)   (2    (l)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)                       studies
All Indonesia              A      A      -      A                                        C      C                                 -      -     -      -      - C
Aceh 
North Sumatra              -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      ,      -      -     -      -      -
West Sumatra                                    -      -      -     -      -      -                          -      -      -      -      -     -      - -                 -
Riau
Jaubi                      -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
South Sumatra              -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
Rengkulu
Laupung                    -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -
DKI Jakarta                A      A      8      A      8     -      -      -      -      -      8     -      -      -      B      -      8     -      -      -            b
vest Java                  -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -            _
Central Java               -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -            -
DI Jogyakarta              -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -            -
8ast Java                  A      A      B      A      3      -     -      -      -      -      B      -     -      -             -      B     -      -      -            3
West Kalimantan            -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -            -
Central Kalimantan         -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -            -
South Xalimantan           -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -            -
East Kalimantan            -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -
South Sulawesi             A      A      8      A      8     -      -      -      -      -      8     -      -      -      B      -      B     -      -      -           b
Southeast Sulawesi         -                                               -      -      -      -     -             -  - 
Central Sulawesi           -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -'
North Sulawesi             -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -
Bali                       -
Nusa Tenggara Barat        -        
Nuna Tenggara Tiaur        -      -      -      -      -      -
Ialuka                     -      -
Irian Jaya                 -      -      -      -      -     -
Timor Timor                -      -      -      -      -      -
/a Columns refer to activities listed in para. 1.
Key.  A - Mainly advisory inputs to other agencies.
8 - Studies involving new data collection and analysis.
C * Studies based sainly on analysis of existing data.



INDONISIA
MANPOWER DEVEGLOPMNT ND TRAINING PROJICT
Training lKanageent and the National Training Syste.
Schedule of Consultant Servicea. Internatioal (Int.) and Domestic (Don.). 1986/87 to 1991/92
Schedule of tnPuts (man-years)
Nature and objective of                      1986/87        1987/88        1988/89        198i990      1990/91       1991/92          Totd
consultant service                     Tnt.    Don.  Int.    Don.  Int.    Don.  Int.   Don. Tot.   Doo.  Tnt.   Dol.   lat.   Dos.
ana sement of Trainitn
anagme_nt develomnt and related
staff develoanti  analysis of
managemnt syste_ - planning,
iuplementation and monitoring
of traioingg reco mndations
on changes; iuplemntatiin;
design of data base and Imple-
mentation of systems                   1.0    0.5    l.S    1.0    1.5    1.5   1.0    1.0   1.0    1.0    0.5    1.0           6.5   6.0
Physical resource plannint and man-
agamnts analysis of exziting
utilizationg rationali.ation
and efficient utilization of
space and equipmnt; design and
establishmnt of nonitoring system,
staff training                         .'s    0.5    1.0    1.0    0.5    1.0    -        0.5   0.5      -       -      -       2.5   3.0        a.
PlISDIKLAT: Upgrading and extension
of traininR  programs                     0.5    0.s    1.0    1.O    1.0    1.0  i1n    1.5   0.5    1.0          -      1.0     4.0   6.0
Project Kanagezmnt Office
Design and establishment of plan-
ning, mnagemnt, monitoring and
reporting system and procuremnt
of goods and services /                n.5    0.5    I.0   .1.0    0.5    0.5    -         -      -      -       -      -       2.0   2.0
National Training System
Training policy and system,
Including Joint Industrial
Vocational Training Schem              0.5    0.5    1.0    1.0    0.5    0.5    -        0.5    -       -       -      -       2.0   2.5
establishment of occupational skills
classification: skills standards
and tests developentj establish-
ment of skills test facilities          .O   1.0    1.5    1.0    2.0    1.5   100    1.5   1.0    1.5    1.0    1.0           7.5   7.5
Total                                 4.0    1.5    7.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   3.0    5.0   3.0    3.5    1.5    3.0    24.5  27.0
/a  Staffing of Project Kanagemaent Office equivalent to total of 38 man-yeare of local conmultancies.
P-,



INDONESIA
NANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Training Nanagement and the Rational Training Systet
Schedule of Overseas Training Fellowships and Local Training, 1986/87 to 1991/92
Number     Total                        Schedule (man-years)
Nature and objective of training or fellowship               trained  inn-years  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
KanasmIent Develop nt (Training for staff of key
un a ot cantral mnistry and regional office.
in specialist aspects of amagement)
Overseas ja
Postgraduate manageeent triining for selected cen-
tral and regional staff                                   50         90          5        10      25        25         20        5
Postgraduate training for PUSDIKLAT staff                    6         10          1         2       2         2          2        1
Manage8 nt training for selected bLI directors and
senior staff                                              40         20          2         3       5         5          3        2
a.
Local
Short progreme in Management training (average 3
months), Including approislately S5 senior SLK
staff                                                    200         80          5        10      15        20         20       10
National Trainint Systeu
Overseas
Study tours for meabers of National and Regional
Training Councils and senior ministry staff               30          5          1        2        1         1         -         -
Study visits, short courses and assiRnments -
JIVT, occupational analysis, testing                      20          5          1         2       1         1          -        -
Local
Training programs in occupational analysis, stan-
dards, tests                                              40         10          1         2       3         3          1
Language Training
Locals  Preparatory language training for staff to be
trained overseas (up to 6 tonthi)                  180         75        10        20       20       20          5         -
/a  Overseas training includes an average of 3 months' intensive language training.



- 44 -                                                  MN6
INDONESIA
AwPOMEn PLANNINC AND VOCATIONAL TRAININC PROJECr
MintLtry of Hknpower: Senior and Middle leveL Staff 1985/86-1990/91
Actual staffin!!1985/86             Expect*d *taffins  990/91
Unit                                         Total       IV     III        IL      Total -      Y 1 rf           II
SECRETARY GENRtAL'S OFFICE
Fureaua
Etwieu of PLanning                           115      1        25        89       232       6       49        177
Bureau of Personnel                          122      1        13       108       239       5       38        196
Bureau of Finance                            104      2        17        85       221       6       42        173
Bureau of International Relatlons             71      2        12        57       191       6       42        143
Others                                       249     10        30       209       368      10       56        302
Subtotal                                  661      16       97        548     1,251      33      227       991
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF MANPOWER
DtvELOPHNT-
Dtrector ates
Progrm development                            57      4        19        38        99       7       34         58
Sapply and placement of uanpower              78      5       24         49       120       7       38         75
Labor intenaive and self employment           53      4        16        33        95       6       30         59
DeVelcp.ent of vocational training            57      6        14        37        99       6       31         62
Instructor and private training               36      3        10        23        78       6       30         42
Othera                                       126     10        12       104       168       5       25        136
Subtotal                                 407      32       95        284       659      37      188       *32
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF INDUSTRIAL
KILAILONS                                      486     23       95        368       597      37      114        446
Subtotal                                 486      23       95        368       597      37      114       446
CZNTRAL OFFICE
Overse u employment                             44      1         8        35        119      6       32         81
Vocational training                             76      5        17        54        147      7       38        102
Natural productivity                            79      1       26         44       142       7       44         91
Reeearch and development                        75      4       22         49       148       6       67         75
Education and training                          69      7        16        36       132       6       36        90
Others                                         198      9       35        154       269       8       53        208
Subtotal                                 541      27      124        372       957      40      270       647
Aceh                                             430      3        44       383       822      15      133        674
North Sumatra                                    640      4       104       532     1.032      24      179        829
Weat Suitra                                      414      3       60        351       806      17      149        640
Riau                                             341      3        53       285       733      17      143        573
Jaubi                                            248      2        46       200       640      15      129        496
South Sumatra                                   482       4       59        419       884      20      166        698
bngkulu                                         274       3       34        237       666      15      129        522
Leapung                                          369      3       52        314       761      15      132        614
Subtotal                               3.198      25      452     2.721      6.344    138    1.160      5.046
DXI Jakarta                                      708     11      107        590     1.112      18      149        945
Ilmt Java                                        938      4       145       787     1,337      34      242      1,061
Central Java                                   1,412     11      222      1,179     1.813      43      298      1,472
DI Jogyakarta                                    519      5       81        433       920      19      157        744
East Java                                      1,189     13      171      1,005     1,590      39      263      1,288
Subtotal                               4.766      44      726     3.994      6.772    153    1.109      5.510
meot Kalimantan                                  288      3        39       246       680      16      140        524
Central Kalim_ntan                              212       2       23        187       604      15      130        459
South Kallantan                                  328      2       42        284       720      18      153        549
East Kalimantan                                  397      5       53        339       789      20      153        616
Subtotal                               1.225      12      157      1.056     2.793     69       576     2.148
SoLth Sula-eui                                  477       3       84        390       869      20      162        687
Southeast Sulawesi                               786      2        18       166       578      13      123        442
Central Sulavwei                                 258      2       23        233       650      14      134        502
North Sulawesi                                   382      3       60        319       774      16      143        615
Subtotal                               1.903      10      185      1.108     2.871     63       562     2.246
Ball                                             321      1       52        268       713      15      128        570
Nunn Teaggara Tiuur                              215      2       22        191       607      15      131        461
Nu" Tenggara Barat                               258      2        24       232       650      14      126        510
Maluku                                           258      2       32        224       650      14      128        508
IrLan Jaya                                      370       5       26        339       762      17      146       599
Subtotal                               1.422      12      156      1.254     3.382     75       659     2.648
Timor Tlmar                                       76      1        17        58       468       8       95        365
jubtotal                                  76       1       17         58       468      8        95       365
All Indonecia -Total                  14,685    202    2,104    11.763    26.094    653    4.960    20.479



Annex 6
. 45  -                                                           Chart  1
INDONESLA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Joint Industidol Vocational Training (J.l.V.t.) Scheme
Joint iedusMt  Voctinal Training Scheme                                           U     i
P,lot PrOect (MACE CoMporent) - Mech.; Auto.; Const.; Elect                               on Request
tmm industry
SD/"MP/             SIM                     Diect                     Industral UWorkoS
SMA/SIM        (with Piact Tig)          Job Entrnts                of STM/TrC Groduates
---3/Cm---_ ____--Cm             -_m__ __ bnCm--- ----Cm---
BIK               Indusiry          BL( K     r      mustr                         BLK/hd
Basic                   Camnmon Tech.j   -                                    Specific
Mechanical                    Scits Mach.                                        Sidil Trg.
Foundation              l                                                     lModules
Twrining or                  Basic       Training in   Autmobi         Twde
Equivalent     C:ommo=n   Autom-obie    inciJtrV OF                    Trode
TheoMr/Pitctce    Sdlls &   |-              InRx                          Test  I   h'C'        I
to Reach ir    l     roH  g    B'           Sectr        Co9ucffon      Prep.      Tirinng      Exper
Entry Requkement                     _ Const. tlon
I  Bectncal                     Elctrical1
intewrndc   -  In lenrAdnced
Twade                             Trade Test                 Trade Test
q q , Tesr    r:r Tst
Cort.  FohundaIon Tn oxrmr                   SefT-fSICl1d                           Skilled                 Specialist
Selection Test             Sector      Self Emplaomewt                        Erovwrment                  SidlUs
Cenflcafion
R oiO sim Module       BacSic Sk    O Occupational     Occupational
picfte       Scidl NModube     Skdll PctiWe     |
Woticl Bonk-27765



AMuI 7
46 -                                                    Table I
tNDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMET MND TRAINrIC PROJECT
Upnradint of Training
Vocational Tralning Centers - ILX - Enrollmnt Tartets. lq85/86. by Main Skill Area
Total                                                                              Agriculture
enrollment Automo-  Macha-  Construc- Elee-               Comer-  Seere-  Mliscel-  (or &gric.
(19R5/86)    tive    nical    tion       trical Welding   cial    tartal  Laneoau  engineering)
Sumatra
Aceh                        340         20      20        20        20       20       80      60       100          -
Medan                      1,000       120     100       100       120       60      100      100      300          -
Padang                      600         so      40        60       s0        20      140      60       120          -
Pakan Baru                  440         60      60        40       60        40       40      40       100          -
Jambi                        180        2n      20        20        40        -       20      20        40          -
Palembang                  1,200       200     100       140      200       100      120       -       340          -
Bengkulu                    400         40      20        40       40        20       80       -       160          -
Laupan                      200         20      20        40        20       20        -       -        80          -
Java
Pasar Rebo                 1,7nO      10      180       2R0      380       100      140     100       340          -
Condet (Welding)            240          -       -         -        -       240        -       -         -          -
Bandung                   1,860        120     100       100       100       80      400     120       840          -
Lembang (JLbP)              600          -       -         -        -         -        -       -         -        600
Togakarta                   600        120     100       120       120        -      180       -       160          -
lanpok (BICP)               600          -       -         -        -         -        -       -         -        600
Surakarta                   q00        120      40        40      120        2n     10      140       240          -
Semarang                   1,300       140     140        40       140      140      200      100      400          -
Singosorl                   760        100      80        60       Ro        60       s0       -       3no          -
Surabaya                    780        140      60        80      140        40       60      60       200          -
Vonojati (BLKP)             300          -       -         -        -         -        -       -         -        300
Cilacap                     740        100      80        20      100       ino      100      40       20o          -
Kalinntan
Janjarbaru                  8no        100     100        60      1on         -      120       -       22n        100
Plk. Rays                   260         40      40        40       40        40        -       -        60          -
Samarinda                   440         60      60        60       40        40       40      40        40         60
Pontianak                   520         80      60        8n       80        60       80       -        go          -
Sulawesl
Ujung Pandang               640        100      40        60        80      120      12n       -       149          -
Palu                        500         80      60        60       so        40       80       -        s0          -
Kendarl                     420         RD      40        40        60       40       60       -       100          -
Bttung                      700         80      80        80       120       60       ao      80       120          -
Bali - Denpasar              1,320       200      S0         -      200        60      200      60       520          -
Musa Tenggara Bsrat -
Mataram                      600       100       -        io       100       60      1no       40      100          -
Nona Tenggara Timur -
Kupang                       260        40      60        20        4n       2n       20       -        6n          -
Maluku - Aabon                 500        60       -        40        60       60       80       -       200          -
Irian Jaya - Jayapura         300         40      40        20       40        40       40      20        60          -
Total                 22,200      2.640   1.820     1.820    2,800    1.700    2.940   1,080    5.700        1.660



INDONESIA
H A  OWER DEVELOPNENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Uparading of Trainin
Schedule of Consultant Service., International (Int.) and Dometic (Dos.) 1986/87-1991/92
Schedule of inputs (meneare)
TSaks                                                1986/87       1987/88       1988/89       1989190       1990/91        1991/92         Total
Tnt.   Dom. Int. km. O      Int.   Dan.  Int.   Dm.  Int.   Doa.   lot.   Doe.   let. Do.
Design. Implementation and Monitoring of New Training Modules:
Basic. Advanced and Sgecialist                                         2.5   2.5    6.0   4.0    6.0   6.n    6.0   6.0    6.0   6.0          3.5    5.5    30      30
Curriculum development, preparation of training naterials and
Implementation of training program for selected occupattons
in the _talo and related manufacturing Induatry, textiles
agricoltural products processing and construction industries.
Instructor Trainins                                                    1.5   1.0    1.5   1.5    2.n   1.5    1.0   1.5    1.0   1.S          1.0    1.0      8      8
Instructor training program and curriculum development,
traning materials, methoda and facilities.
In-plant Training. Supervisory Training and Productivity               2.0   2.0    4.5   3.0    4.5   4.0    3.0   4.0    3.0   4.0          2.0    4.0    19      21
Design and Implementation of training support system for
In-plant training including the Industrial Development
Training Units and design and isplematation of
supervisory and productivity training and upgrading of
consultancy services and related staff development.
Training for Self-plom%nt and the Intorml Sector                       1.0   1.0    1.0   1.5    1.0   1.5    1.0   2.0    1.0   1.0           -     1.0      5      a
Olysts  of need. and design and Implementation of training for
self-employment and selected occupations In the informal
section.
Mobile Training Systems                                                 1.0   1.0    2.0   1.5    1.5   1.5    1.0   2.0    0.5   1.0          -      1.0     6      8
Analysis of needs and design and implemntation of pilot mobile
and open training programs, Including follow-up and evaluation.
Language Trainitng   To strengthen local facilities                     1.0    -      1.0    -     1.0    -      1.0    -       -      -       -       -      4      -
Total                                                         9.0   7.5   16.0  11.5   16.0  14.5   13.0  15.5   11.5  13.5         6,5   12.5    72       75
1I I



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Upgrading of Training
Schedule of Overseas Pellovehips and Local T-raining, 1986/87 to 1991/92
Approx. no.  Man-years       Schedule of traininB and fellowship. (man-years)
Nature and objective of training fellowship            of persons      total      19abI87  19a7f6a  198 dasy  1989a9u  199U/91  illIYZ
Overseas Training Fellowships
Instructor Traininit
S1ILIs upgrading and instructor training
method for staff of instructor-training programs          3n           15       2.0         5        5       3s0        -         -
Specialist skills training, industrial assign-
moents and training methods for BLK section
heads and other senior staff upgrading (six-
month to three-year courses and study visits)           100          195          5        20       35        45       45        45
In-Plant TraininR. Supervisory Training
and  rod-ucttvtty
Tranlntg anT  ndustrial assignments overseas
for industrial training development officers
of ITDUs and Courses in productivity, industrial
engineering and supervisory studies for staff of
National and Regional Productivity Centers               30           20                    3        5         5        3         2
Self-Employ ent and Informal Sector
irainng assignments and study visits                       5           3        0.5         1      0.5       0.5      0.5         -
Mobile TraininR
Training assagnments and study visits                      5           3        0.5       1.0      0.5       0.5      n.5         _
Lanitute TraininL
tpgradingsor -anguage teachers                            4            2        0.5       1.0      0.5         -        -         -
Local TraininR
LTali Trainiing and Basic Instructor Training,
including upgrading ror existing stafr tsix
months to two years)                                  1,500        2,000        200       300      500       500      300       200
Lanagaze Trainiin8  preliminary training (nor-
mall  six ontne full-time)                              240          120         20        30       30        2n        20        -



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
KANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Management
General
1.        The main features of the system are:
(a) the Secretary General of the Ministry of Manpower will have overall
responsibility for the project and will chair an Interministerial
Steering Committee.
(b)  the Director General of Manpower Development and Placement will act
as vice-chairman of the Steering Comittee and chair a Technical
Committee.
(c) a full-time (sole-job) Project Director will be responsible for
managing the coordination of implementation of the project and
administration of the 'oan with the assistance of a Project
Director's Office with heads of coordinating units working full-time
on the project;
(e) responsibility for implementation of project activities will be
assigned to the appropriate units of the Ministry, i.e. the
directorates, central offices, etc. Staff of these units directly
responsible will be assigned to teams as full-time counterparts to
consultants.
2.        The proposed structure for the management of implementation is shown
in Chart 1.
Functions and Responsibilities
The Steering Committee
3.        The Steering comittee will comprise:
The Secretary General (Chairman)
The Director General of Manpower Development & Placement (Vice
Chairman)
The Deputy Chairman kManpower) of Bappenas
The Director General of Foreign Monetary Affairs of Ministry of
Finance
The Director General for Budget, Ministry of Finance



- 50 -                             AM= a
Page 2
The Project Manager (Secretary)
The Steering Committee will be directly responsible to the Minister of
Manpower and will:
(a) coordinate the policy and decision-making of the agencies relevant
to project implementation in order to minize delAys in
implementation;
(b) review for approval overall plans for project implementation in
accordance with agreed policies and project objectives;
(c) recommend the allocation of loan and domestic funds;
(d) guide, monitor and evaluate project implementation;
(e) report regularly to the Minister.
The Technical Committee
4.        A Technical Committee has been established, consisting of:
(a) The Director General of Manpower Development and Placement
(Chairman)
(b)  The Secretary of the Directorate General of Manpower Development and
Placement
Cc) Head of Bureau of Manpower, BAPPENAS
Cd) Director for Foreign Monetary Affairs, Ministry of Finance
(e) Director of Project Budget, Ministry of Finance
(f) The Director of High Skill and Vocational Training Development
(g) Director of Instructor and Private Institutes Development
(h) Head of the Vocational Training Center
Ci) Head of the National Productivity Center
(j) Head of the Education and Training Center
(k) Head of Public Relations Bureau
(1) Head of the Personnel Bureau
(m) Head of the Research and Development Center
(n) Director of the East Java Regional Manpower Office



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
(o) The Project Director (Secretary)
5.        The Technical Committee will bring together the senior staff respon-
sible for implementation, together with staff of central agencies, to coordin-
ate project activities and establish guidelines and procedures in order to
assist efficient project implementation. Its functions will include:
(a) development of work programs and plans and allocations of resources;
(b) advice on assignment of responsibilities and allocation of
resources;
(c) monitoring and evaluation of progress.
Development Budgets (DIP)
6.        The Development Budget for the project will be allocated to each
directorate, or central office for the project related activities financed by
Rupiah counterpart budget for which the unit is responsible. Loan-funded
International Competitive Bidding will be administered by the Project
Director's Office.
The Project Director
7.        The Project Director, assisted by the staff of the Project
Director's Office, will be responsible for the following:
(a) coordination of the preparation of annual plans, identification of
resources required and preparation of overall budget;
(b) preparation of guidelines (manual) for administration of the
project;
(c) coordination of project activities and provision of support to staff
of technical units involved in project administration;
(d) organization and appointment of special teams or work units for
project planning and implementation according to need;
(e) coordination of project activities with functional activities of the
respective units in accordance with COI policies;
(f) procurement of all goods and services under international competi-
tive bidding procedures, local consultancy and training services and
goods procured centrally under local bidding procedures. This will
involve preparation of bidding documents, specifications, evaluation
of bids, contracting, and arrangement for delivery and installation;
(g) coordination of the preparation and implementation of annual
institutional and staff development plans;



-52 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 4
(h) administration of overseas and local training fellowship schemes, in
collaboration with PUSDIKLAT;
(i) administration of consulting services;
(j)  establishment and implementation of monitoring and evaluation proce-
dures, including preparation of monthly and quarterly reports for
the Technical Team, Steering Comittee and Minister of Manpower;
(k) loan administration, including reviews by the Bank and maintenance
and supply of all records and reports as required under the Loan
Agreement; and
(1) cooperation with other agencies on matters related to project
implementation.
The Project Director's Office
8.        The structure of the proposed Project Director's Office is shown in
Chart 2. The functions of the units will be:
Administration
(a) office administration;
(b) to maintain relevant records and prGject documents;
(c) to provide administrative services to all the project executors;
(d) to prepare administrative guidelines and manuals for the implementa-
tion of project activities;
(e) to maintain inventory lists; and
(f) to prepare regular reports on all project activities.
Treasury
(a) to prepare schedules of payment to agencies, required for project
implementation;
(b) to prepare all documentation needed for payments related to project
implementation;
(c) maintenance of project accounts in accordance with WOI and Bank
requirements; preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual financial
reports; preparation and administration of timely Bank-loan
reimbursement;
(d) to prepare necessary documentation for accountability and present to
other agencies according to existing regulations;



- 53-
- 53 -                         ANNME 8
Page 5
(e)  to prepare financial reports in accordance with Government and World
Bank requirements.
Manpower Area Coordinator
(a) To coordinate project activities in the manpower planning field
between the responsible units in the central Ministry and the
Regional Manpower Offices;
(b) to prepare comprehensive plans;
(c) to support the techrnical units involved in implementation and to
monitor progress.
Training Area Coordinator. To serve a similar function with regard to
project activities in training.
Staff Development and Training
(a) to coordinate staff development and training activities under the
project between the various units including PUSDIKLAT;
(b) to assist with arrangements for selection and placement of staff in
training;
(c) to maintain records of training and follow-up.



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMEN AND TRAINING PROJECT
Impbmenhtbn Respofu4lIfful
ReMon  to La"o 
*0~~ ~ ~ mwgff -f
AdW4tft      f Mwc*  1mmDt
I        I           I          -~I          l I u K x l   I           I.. 
LawborMa* &             MAn &           BLK  hwfoneta        a        In h4                      AD
b_y&                 ff l                                   7fSe7 _t air_ormP
X I                                I [tII klk 
Ex0go d                                                              
Stan
UNIS                                                                                     
EtlAon d                                                                     F           rb 
YAM t *-30M92



INDONESI
MANPOWER DOIOPMENT AND 1MANING PROJECT
The Pct DDicoOs  le
M~~pa~~ Ama]   ~~~  Awo       7~~    F7                    ftDousml
C toCI dO                            I
U'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CodnallInof
C dCoa,dnbin do        Cactnorlon d           Pfunldnt Pd
R*p ActmtI"dAuz tDim                            " DAkr.nts Gook & sgrvo= Amu
Pv*ng. hcJu             P"fIm   k= 4*v          & TM"                 Md*V                    m RubuuT
h                        idooh                Mangeht fla             DocHnmtlon            Ffa  Repo!
ah tw                   Lad w                   Non9ttonr              Ca*od
hhimbtfn               _Iarnmn                 Salecto                Arluigu,nn
MorVtw8g &              mc1toiffl &             PIKnut &
Ebon                      E-
(h ~.*mcflo3
.Cdd I*-30195 1



~Ei 1111                Ll                1 1
t--_______             S     0      0          0-Hs      s
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Location by Province of Principal Project Activities
LABOR MARKET      MANAGENT        NATIONAL       SKILLS                    NEW            INDUSTRIAL      SUPERVISORY       SELF-
6 MANPOWER        SYSTEMS 6       & REGIONAL    TEST         UPGRADING    INSTRUCTOR    TRAINING          AND              EMPLOYTMIT    HOBILE
PROVINCE        PLANNING          STAFF           TRAINING       CENTERS    OF             TRAINING       DEVELOPMENT    PRODUCTIVITY    & INFORMAL    TRAINING
INFO. SYSTEMS    DEVELOPMENT    COUNCILS                     TRAINING      FACILITIES    UNITS            TRAINING
Aceh                        *                 *              *                          *
North Sumatra               *                 *              *                          **             *              *               *                 *             *
West Sumatra                *                 *              *                          *
Riau                        *                         *
Jambi                       a                 a              a                          a
South Sumatra               *                 a              a                          a                             a
Bengkulu                                                                                                                                                              a a  *  *  *
Lampung
DKI Jakarta                 **                a              **             a           **                            a
West Java                   *                 a              a               a          **                             a                                              a
Central Java                a                 a              a                          a
DI Jogjakarta               a                 a              a                          a                                                               a
East Java                                     a *            **             **          **             **             **              **
West Kalimantan             a                 a              a                          a
Central Kalimantan          a                 a              a                          a
South Kalimantan            a                 a              a                          a                                                               a
East Kalimantan             a                 *              **             **          a*             a              a               **                              a*
South Sulawesi              aa                a              a                          **             a                              a                 **            a
Southeast Sulawesi          a                 a              a                          a
Central Sulawesi            a                 a              a                          a
North Sulawesi              *                 a              *                          *
Bali                        a
Nusa Tenggara Barat         a                 a              a                          a                                                               aa
Nusa Tenggara Timur         a                 a              a                          a
Haluku                      a                 a               a                          *
Irian Jaya                  a                 a              a                          a
Timor Timur                 a                 a               a                          a
National                    **                 a              **                         **             **                            aa
a  Planned location of activity under project.                                                                                                                           _..
** Planned activity during first year.



- SD -
IMX=BtA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ue 
MMPEIUKR DDWPHEHT AND TRATNIHOC M30lC7
Critical Activittes and Dates
Item                                                               Prlor to effectiweneaa                                         Ftirt year (13906//7)
Hnmassent and organization
gatabliahbnt of:                                11131 Agrement with Boak on:  tsks and actiyiciee,
Project Cirectors Office                             tilmtables. organltionai structur   stafftnxg
budgat for 1063637
01/36  fAtablismnt of office by decree
12/R5  Selection of Proeict Director
Appolntssnt of Project Director. Treasurer.
Manpowr Area and Training Ara Coordinators,
Staff Davelopaet Coordinator, Procurammt-
Officer and Adainistrative Head and arrasge
meta for lAnguge traintnn of staff.
Ussimntltn of project implamentatien            12/as  Dsignation of kay staff and project responsi-
raspoasbilitiss                                        bilitie  in each directorate-  subdirectorate.
Central office - identification of counterpart
tease for each censltancy input
bitabiishent of Steering CaLttaee               ni/Rh  Conflrm to Dbnk constitutton and mebershlp
and Tehecal C4ittee                                  responsihilltls
Program of activities 196/87 and budget         01136  Establisbmnt of Conmettees by decree.                    n32/3   Cosfirestion of budget for IM1S7
Confirm to Hank protrm of activiltes and
budget for 13086/7 and. with WDPF.A  and Mu-
lstry of finance support
Thchicel Assistance
:;rabaya Regional Progree                       02/36  Conftrm agremsnt to Bank on projet  utilne,              n6/6  Consultante identified by IUI and appoltnnte
including outilne lmRO   Of consultants. te-                   agreed with COI
table of actlvittes. fellowship training
overal  budget (1986-39) and budget for first           06/36  Project docment ready for signture
yar
lOI16  Fist-stag    eoneultants In poet
Functioal  peckhae  of conultant                03116 Confirm to Dank:  term of reference and
ervices                                                packgIu,g
Labor market and fnper Informtton                    Criteria for abort-listinR Initial short-flat            MM/6  Invitations to bid
Systes                                               and other biddIng docnmnts
071/36 Selectlon of conultents
Hanagest arst_m and physical and
staff dv1opmnt                                                                                                10/36  Awpointment of consoltants
Upgrading of training:                                                                                        12/16  Inception resorts agreed with Minietry and Dash
A-Upgrading so advanced and spe-
cialst sodule; instructor train-
iUs; suwervisory training
U-h-plant traing
C-ibble tratinng
D-Trrlsing for *elf-employsent
langog  training (for etaff)
Staff training fellowships
Oersa  trainig fellowhips                      W 3/6  Confirm to Rnk loal  nd oversas arranuoants             nia/U   Selection of tintial batch of stcaf  fer fellow-
first entry above for overees                        for placsent ad tdentificatlon of potential                     ships 1986/87 and confirmation of errase_eots
tralsngL office sod langug  trelnlng)                training place_mnts for 1466/R7                                 for langease trainina
local traintang fllowshLps                                                                                   n06/6  Selection of initial hatch of staff for locAl
FaIlowehipe 1986137
Phsical Failitite
Iaildioge                                                                                                       o'ngs  AppoA_ineot of consultants for lon-tatrs physi-
Cal faclitties plonning
01/a?7 nDsin for lttial phase of aptatlons
n23/R7  Did docuents for fist phase
Iqoip_nt
Comarting et        (phas  1)                 01/?7  Detailed spectifictions.  Agre_ent on vrocere-           0IR?  Rid documnUts publiehed
sent procedure with SEIXHE
W3VRi  F.alustion of bids
06/?7  Award of contract
Teaching oquipment (al1 components)           O5/DO6  later equiP_ent list, for replacesent. hsnd             01/37  IRid docuents for lattlal equipnt Itst to-
tools and transfer of equipment for inittal                    cludion spectfications
centers (including proposed Instructor-trmlning
ftctlitles)



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 6 
MANPOUW iitVELOPiUil AIM0 TI6AINIE PROJUCT
I rlotsariia   output nitriss lIndleat.r
Clpnant and activity                             wctd outrca_ at eplsti oe                                   Imported mitre.. tIlml
Labo  noto  and_ n,w
Rot.1,19know of InforstLOn        latsllotian. cfaiaolioni. Red operation of cooptor          imIatIltion. cnt-laaieiaa and operation of cooput-r
eato                              sotens, *- s1i regai...                                     ayt.m  in J.borto. pat J."sad  oth Su
Stafl devrls t                         eace.asl ospletio  of trlina In t anoroer
pl.oniln. labr sconosico and publie odminiatra-
vOmNas    21 MAINS A P.R. dtpla_s: 2 PhI             (all G candidates under trinina a  In HPN  courss
tLoalt 42 AINS A P.R. diploons
fbi Eatbliaimnt of program  of abort spect-ilit
traimian. Inmludias  arcoful Coeptets of the                                             -
*.1-loalns
I.    Ministry of  apower atoll (*bl) 2n Nintitry stall tra_d In *sort casios.
SO atol . t other sdtatries In abort sptcil-         MbI) 10 atalf of tber sisitmris  trained In sbhrt
tat couuo.                                                cersesB.
Lober-erl,at atadies sd           Ca  Iproved lobor   rhet. aepisynat Rso  trataine           (a)  aslysia of existing nstional and rIeual va-
planing operations                     lafoemtin sad clletioa. analysis sAd disasi-              too.. i1aIis of syats.
satiss sstoos.
tb)  aotoIsl atadis. taclutat fsponer oS _sslen-            tbl Stadtia  of labor fore. afeml sactor.
sno  Infoauation for Sepalita V pttionl  sd                 expatriate and oftr o  taler.
progreo.
C.) Sasntol a          oie   12 proewoe.                     cl  Oogtssal  studio  of labor _rbnto  onplnyosst *nd
trteesa is Jaharta. East Jas sad Smith
1ulussit.
Hlaesvost as Mattosal Train-
tI!Tii of onsagoedt               ipgroded  yatso fer:
Col plsnasns. tinluding traIdni  pmnr-c                     Coss-ltota. in Posts. inception rports prepared,
(b) alloeatiao  of resrcee and budgetla:                   Prioritiee Idsttfied tork program  agreed.
(C) phyalcal fetilittes stillation: sad                     C.) A-aysis of physieal Iscillties atiltsatten in
(dl sonitarian and feedbrck.                                     lOt of 5Bi'.   pates .sablihed.
lZproad efficieutny of             ocilitis  utilIstton rsiad to 7n1 throgut LiMo.            Fatilitin stitisatieo  inpr  d to 1! is at lent teo
uatilitatian of focilities                                                                    ILto ([skhrts sa  Sorobsys).
Nasomnt inforaction sys-          Installtion. tomiosicatai  sad opertl  of  satas           nalaa of operatieso. deain  of dot boos.
tam                              Is central offie  nd in 1rgiom.
Monagneast atall traiing          ta)  Upgrsdiag of PUlinilATs
* staff tre   d ovras                               (C1o  One at ff __er unRdr tra"lao.
-'elitis                                             (oil consultant Is peat to tnotat With antesast
traaiois pmrogam
Tramtag prograsm                                     Ca) t-I ast ttintg for 20 staff.
(b) Scresful copletion of traisti s
I Overe1as:       pntgCrasdte _nsaguesot for tea-      (bi) S staff udrtaking trainint.
tral and reIonal etrAf
2            Skudy tour for 30 TrWaist  Cussell        (h) 12 .. _ralataf  on atdf twigs.
ataff sod __nr.
3             O usnaganet trainig for IIU              (bi) S Ut directors trainS.
dlbe 
l1cs        lTM enioer stall 1i soirt snwassst s      t,bS) 12 staff trained In abort progsra.
spetalt  c-us
Projett Directors Offite          Ca)  ffie etablished.                                       Cs]  Full staff is pst.
lb) *snasest sad rap riTng  stats net up.
Ch) Efficient aet-amotablissd.
natAblish ocupeteosal e-tn-       Ca) Occupatiool stoadard. *akill atndrds and tonts          Ceosaltnt  in pot; swtes ontabliahbd for rsvloe of
dard-, till tandrds.                  e_tabiihod in priority indentrIaI suboeetors  nd        exttln  *tandarda ond  stbltsiint of tiles  sr,
cats ad te"t Facilitiea               aoupations.                                             derds.
(b)  kills test fcilitti   otblisbed tn & pr_in-
National Training Syst            MNtionfal traning policy onblihd.                           Consaltants in poot traising policy onlyed: Bse
Joitt lsdatrla  Tocatinel                                                                     Idontiftids  J= d;stind for bHte _ebsoical
Tating thrMn  fVT)                                                                            tr ade.
Uradity of Training
rAtatbliamsat or advanced        e tablilsbot of advanced add  "ecslitat trainin              Cosnaltants ti pot. & advasod tr ainin  nhil-as
Rd specialist  tills tris-       nodules with anual anrll_nt of 20.000 trainees.              established.
Stfll tratning/ataft dowel-      (Col M   trainins fatilities established ti A ElK  and       Ral) Falitiso established tn 2 SiRs  5 stoff in
opnr                                    pgraded in 6 Kits                                          traning oversas.
(62) The-yar  rsttng pretres etablished.
(b)  Ut staff tratiias
I &_rusess  Ioni trane  is secalist program.           (bi) 1 staff  nrolled In twins_  aarvose.
2. total:  1.500 taild ti six  noth t, t_i-yesr        (h) 200 *erollad in oiaanth to tea-yr Program.
prgram.
UtsbItshasnt rd In-pist           C)  ig 2ndstrll Trtdnia  eiopseot Unite MtrM)               (l  Consultants in piae   two its out up.  2 staff
tra1ini.    rv       o-blid.                                                                       is tratning oversas.
training and prdottity            (b) la-plntm tralsig establisbed in 6 prowats for           Rb) In plnt traininge tbliahed in R firm.
appronioste S .000 treinona par year.
(C) Outeam   nd acost mOatered to prrtde dta for
plenaing.
(dl ser_enghed netitnal and S rotunal prod  tivity          Cd) Consultants in pet to donsst wth upg"rdin  of
conmera.                                                    trainns and toneoltacy srvie.
SsIf-suplay-t and Infre-l         Ebablisiont of trainig is In provinces. nOtoes              Coasotltts is plates  sslysis of sotation training:
training                          and teats iitord to provide datA fr planning.               etbli  tnt of Initial tranoi   prowes is a
praviee.
Hab,ts and open tronIngI         tetahl.le, nt of initial trainin in 4 provinces.             totblabent of Initial training Prnnr_as in
httrses asnd tat  amitoed to provide dts for                * p.nviaces.
dousning



- 60 -
AMMM 10
Table 1
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Sumary of Consultant Services - by Component and Year
Consultant Input (Han-years)-
Program:  Component       International
Domestic     1986/7  1987/8  1988/9  1989!90  1990/1  1991/2  Total
Labor Market and Manpower Planning
Chief adviser/team leader    I            1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      0.5      0.5      5
Specialists (short-term)      I           0.5     1.0     2.0      1.0      0.5       -       5
D          1.0      1.5     2.0     2.0       2.0     1.5      10
Management of Training and National Training System
Management of Training and Staff Developgent
Management systems
including physical facili-
ties utilization and
project management office   I            2.0     3.5     2.5      1.0      1.5      0.5    11.0
D          1.5      3.0     3.0     1.5       1.0     1.0    11.0
PUSDIKLAT upgrading           I           0.5     1.0      1.0     1.0      0.5       -      4.0
D          0.5      1.0     1.0     1.5       1.0     1.0      6.0
National Training System
Training councils, policy    I            0.5     1.0     0.5       -        -        -      2.0
aspects, apprenticeship,
JIVT.                        D           0.5     1.0     0.5      0.5       -        -      2.5
0capational analysis
skills standard, tests       I           1.0     1.5     2.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     7.5
and test facilities          D           1.0     1.0      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.0     7.5
Upgrading of Training
Skills training-advanced      I           2.5     6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      3.5    30.0
and specialist modules       D           2.5     4.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      5.5    30.0
Instructor training           I           1.5     1.5     2.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     8.0
D          1.0      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.0      8.0
Inplant training, super-      I           2.0     4.5     4.5      3.0      3.0      2.0    19.0
visory training and          D           2.0     3.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0    21.0
productivity
Self-employment/informal      I           1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0       -      5.0
D          1.0      1.5     1.5     2.0       1.0     1.0      8.0
Mobile training               I           1.0     2.0      1.5     1.0      0.5       -      6.0
D          1.0      1.5     1.5     2.0       1.0     1.0      8.0
Language teaching             I           1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0       -        -      4.0
D           -       -        -       -         -       _        _
Totals                     I          14.5    25.0    25.0    18.0      15.5      8.5   106.5
D         12.0    19.0    22.5    22.5       19.0    17. 0   112.0



-61-                                     Annex 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
MNPOVER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINTUG PROJECT
Summary of Staff Training Program. - by Component and Year
- Training Fellowships (Man-years)            -
Program:  Component       Overseas
Local         1986/7  1987/8  1988/9  1989/90  1990/1  1991/2  Total
Labor Market and Manpower Planning
Diploma/WA/Phd in labor
market analysis              0            6      12       12      12       12        6      60
Diplom/MA/ in manpower
economics                    L            -       8       16      16       16        8      64
Short courses:
Ministry of Manpower        L           20      40      60       60       40       20     240
Other Agencies              L           10      20      20       20       20       10     100
Language training             L            5       5        5       5        5        -      25
Management of Training & National
Training System
Postgraduate Diploma/MA
training for Ministry staff 0             5      10      25       25       20        5      90
Short courses in management
for ELK directors & other
senior staff                 0            2       3        5       5        3        2      20
Training for PUSDIKLAT staff 0             1       2        2       2        2        1      10
Specialist management
training                     L            5      10       15      20       20       10      80
Short courses/study visits
on national training
policy, aspects              0            1       2        1       1        -        -       5
Short courses/study
visits on occupational
analysis, etc.               0            1       2        1       1        -        -       5
Training in occupational
analysis, standards,
testing                      L            1       2       3        3        1        -      10
Language training             L           10      20       20      20        5        -      75
Upgrading of Training
Training of instructor
trainers                     0            2       5       5        3        -        -      15
ELK staff upgrading           0            5      20      35       45       45       45     195
Productivity/supervisory
inplant training
assignments                  0            2       3       5        5        3        2      20
Self-employment/mobile
training assignments         0            1       2       1        1        1        -       6
Language training
(language teachers)         0         0.5        1     0.5       -         -        -       2
Instructor training           L          200     300     500      500      300      200   2,000
Language training             L           20      30       30      20       20        -     120



IWDONESIA
MANPOWER D EVLOPYENT AND TRARINIG PROJECT
Conaultancy Services International (I) and DoeAstic CD) - b  Package and Year
Package                                                  1986,7          1987/8          1988/9          1989/90           1990/1          1991/2          Total
I    D          I    D          I    D           I     D          I    D          I    D          I    D
A. East Java Regional ProJect (UNDP/ILO)
Managecant development (regional)                            1.5       *     1.5    a                           -     -          -                  -             4    *
Training system, skills, instructor.                           4    *        5,5    *         3.5    *          -     -          -    -          -    -          13    *
Inplant & supervisory training                                 1    *          2    *           I    *          -     -          -    -          -    -           4    a
Mobil training                                               0.5    a          I    *        0.5    *           -     -          -    -          -    -           2    *
Subtotal                                                   7    *          10    *          6    *          -      _          -    -          -    -         23    *
1. Labor Market 7 Yanpower Planning System
Chief advimer/team leader                                      I    -          I                I    -          I     -        0.5    -        0.5    -           6    -
Special consultants                                         0.5    1           1  1.5          2    2           1     2        0.5    2          -  1.5           4   10
Subtotal                                                 1.5    -           2  1.5          3    2           2     2          1    2        0.5  1.5          10   10
C. ManaRement and Staff Development                                 1    2           3    4        2.5    4          2      3          2    2        0.5    2         11   17
D. Training System, Training Modules. Instructor TraininR
Policy, occupational analysis, skills tests                  0.5  1.5          1    2        1.5    2           1     2           1  1.5          1    1          6   10
Skills training                                              1.5  2.5          4    4          6    6           4     6          4    6        3.5  5.5          23   30
Instructor training                                         0.5    1         1.5  1.5        1.5  1.5           1   1.5          I  1.5          -    I         5.5    8
Subtotal                                                 2.5    5         6.5  7.5          9  9.5          6   9.5           6    9        4.5  7.5       34.5   48
E. Inplant, supervisory training 6 productivity                     1    2           3    3          4    4          3      4          2    4          2    4         1S   21
F. Self-eeployment & Informal training                              1    1           I  1.5          1  1.5          1      2          1    1          -    I          5    8
G. Mobile training                                                0.5    1           1  1.5          1  1.5           1     2       0.5    1           -    I          4    8
Language training                                                   I    -           I    -          I    -           I     -          -               -    -          4    -
Total                                                                                                                                                     106.5  112
*  No separata package for domestic consultants for thie regional aubproject:  services to the regional project will be included in the functional packages I
to G.                                                                                                                                                                         l!1I



INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AnD TRAINING PROJECT
Project Costs bY Cate ory and Couponent
tua MUS lltony-
Ungrading of training
In-plant
Training manhgement &                                training,
national traininR systen                              super-
Labor market                   Natl system   Vocational                  visory         Self-
& manpower      Strengthen   occupational    training                   training    employment
planning infor-    training    standards 6    programs        Instructor  and pro-    & informal    Mobile
mation systems    managaemnt        tests       (ELK)          training   ductivity      sector     training    Total
Civil works (including
prof. services)                      -               -             0.50           2.5          0.4           -           -            -         3.40
Furniture, equipment & books:
Furniture                            -               -             0.05          0.23          0,04          -           -            -         0.31
Computers                            1.33           1.11            -              -            -                        -            -         2.44
Training equipment & books           -              0.50           0.40           6.66          -            -          0.50         0.40       8.46
Subtotal                         1.33            1.,61         0.45           6.89          0.04          -          n.50         0.40      11.21
Technical assiatance                                                                                                                                           >
Consultants                                                                                                                                                  w
Domestic consultants              0.36            1.44           0.36           1.08         0.29         0.76        0.29         0.29       4.86
International consultants         1.32            1.98           1.25          3.96          1.58         2.51        0.66         0.79      14.06
Subtotal                         1.6R            3.42           1.61          5.04          1.87         3.26        0.95         1.08      18.92
Fellowships:
Local fellowships                 1.n2            0.37           0.02           -            4.85          -           -            -         6.27
Overseas fellowships              1.65            3.25           0.28           -            5.78         0.55        0.08         0.03      11.61
Subtotal                         2.67            3.62           0.30                       1 10.62       0.55        o.ns         0.03      17.87
Total Technical Assistance       4.35            7.04           1.91           5.04        12.50         3.81        1.03         1.11      36.79
Prolect-Related Operating Costs
Salaries *nd Allowances              1.21           1.39           1.17           1.02         0.62         1.22        0.09         0.09       6.81
Materials                           0.62            0.64           0.65           0.58         0.15         0.60        0.09         0.09        3.43
Travel                              0.39            0.66           0.15           0.15         0.07         0.15         O.06        n.06        1.7n
Other                               0.92            1.02           0,44           0.44         n.15         0.67        0.09         0.29       4.01
Total Proiect-Related
uperating Costs                3.14            3.70           2.40          2.18          1.00         2.64        0.35         0.54      15.95
Total Base Cost                  8.82           12.35           5.26          16.61        13.93         6.45         1.90        2.05      67.35
Physical contingencies                0.66            O.RR           0,43           1.41         0.77         0.45         0,14        0.15        4.89     ' '
Price contingences                     2.40           3.17           1.38          4C17          4.34         1.94         0.48        0.53       18.41   I  g
Total Project Cost              11.89           16.41           7,07         22.18         19,04         8.s4        2.49         2,72      90.65    _ _



-64 -                                 ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Prolect Expenditure by Component and Year
(Annual Expenditure Including Contingencies)
1986/87  1987/88  1988589  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92        Total costs
-  (Rupiah billion)                        Rp bln  USS eln
Labor Market 6 Manpower
Planning Informacion                 1.3      3.1       2.6      2.3       2.2     13.1       13.1      11.9
Trainint Management and
National Trainlng System
Strengthen management of
training                           3.1      3.6       3.4      3.4      3.1       1.4      18.0       16.4
National tralning system,
occupational standards
and tests                          1.1      1.7       1.5      1.0       1.3      1.2       7.8        7.1
Subtotal                       4.2      5.3       5.0      4.3      4.4       2.6      25.8      23.5
Upgrading of Training
Vocational training programs (BLK)  2.6       7.1       8.0      2.3       2.4      2.       24.4       22.2
Instructor training                  1.5      2.7       4.6      4.7      3.9       3.6      20.9       19.0
In-plant training, supervisory
training and productivity          0.8      1.5       1.9      2.0      1.8       1.7       9.7        R.8
Self e  loyment & informal sector   0.4       0.7       0.6      0.4      0.4       0.2       2.7        2.5
Mobile training                      0.4      0.7       0.7      0.6      0.4       0.3       3.0        2.7
Subtotal                       5.6     12.7     15.8      10.0      9.n      7.7       60.8      55.3
Total Prolect Costs           11.1     21.1     23.3      16.7     15.5      11.9      99.7      90.7
Project preparation facility           0.4       -         -        -         -        -        0.4        0.4
TOTAL COST                    11.5     21.1     23.3      16.7     15.5      1.q      1nn.1      91.1



- 65 -
ANNEX 11
TahlTe3
Prae I
TNPONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAININC PROJECT
Project Coats
Project-Related Unit Operating Costs
Project-related operating costs are those suppor:ing costs included in the
Government's development budget (DIP) which are related directly to project
activities. Costs do not include salariea,international trAvel, living costs
of consultants at base, and project cuapport codts of consultants and
fellowships which are included normally in the contracts for services, and
also exclude regular salaries of ministt; .caff and fees and subsistence for
staff training fn formal courses.
1.
Labor Market ar4 Manpower PlanninR Studies
1.1   Specific Regional Studtes.  Design, implementation, follow-up and
monitoring of specific regional studies - cost per study (expected
frequency - 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2)
Rp'OOO
(01) Salaries and WaRes
monoraria for staff                (12 months at 400,nOO)           5,on0
Honoraria, fees for local
specialist staff                 (12 months at 1(000.000)        12,000
Salaries for temporary
field support staff              (40 months at   250,00n)        1n,000
Subtotal                                                     27,000
(03) Materials
Paper, printing, oroduction                                        10,000
Anslysis/computation                                              I1,nOO
Subtotal                                                     20,n0n
(05) Travel
Consultanta/visitinR staff         (25 man trips x 2nn,nnn)         5,000
Local                              (500 x 10,000)                   5,000
Subtotal                                                      in,nno
(07) Other
lontingencies 1n0)                                                  a,ooo
Subsistence (in field):
Consultants/visiting staff       ion days at 70,no0               7,0n0
Local staff                      200 days at 40,000               8,000
Subtotal                                                    21,00n
Total                                                       sonn
1.2   Comprehensive and National Studies   Design, tmplementation and dissemi-
nation oF findings of major comprehensive studies (expected frequency -
O, 1, 2, 1, t, 1)
(n0) Salaries and Wages
Honorarta for staff                (25 x A months at 4nn0,no)    40,n0o
Honoraria, fees for local
specialist staff                 (25 manmonths x 1,nnn.nnn)    25,0no
Salaries for temporary field
support staFf                    (28 x 6 months x 250,non)       4n,n0n
Subtotal                                                   lns.0OO
(03) Materials
Analysis, computation, oaper etc.                                  0n,no0
(05) Travel
VlsTting/consultant staff                                           5,0no
Local staff                                                        20,non
Subtotal                                                     2S,000
(07?) Other
TTflt)                                                             20,00n
Subsistence (Visiting consultants)                                 10,000
(Local)                                               30,ono
Subtotal                                                     60.000
Total                                                       220,noo



- 66-                            ANNEX-I
Table 3
Page 2
1.3   Regular Studies and Analyiso  of Existint Data
(Expected frequency 3, X, 10, 12, 12, 12)
(01)   Salaries and wages                                                   7,000
(03)   'laterials                                                           5,000
(05)   Travel                                                               3,000
(07)   Other                                                                7,nno
Total                                                         22,000
2.  Management and Staff Development
2.1 PUSDIKlAT. Annual Staff Training/Development Coaste related to project.
(01) Salarie, and Wages
Honoraria for staff                 (4 x 12 x 200,000)              10,0on
Ronoraria fees for local
temporary staff excluding
cost covered by 'fees' within
fellowship costs                                                 20,000
Subtotal                                                      30,000
(03) Materials                                                             10,000
(05) Travel                                                                 5,000
(07) Other
(Contingencies)                                                    10,000
Subsistence                                                        20,000
Total                                                         75,000
2.2   National Training Council:  Annual operating cost (at full operation)
(01) Salaries and Wages
Honoraria for secretariat           (A x 12 x 150,n0n +
6 x 12 x 5n,000)             11,000
Honoraria for members               (30 x 10 days at 50,000)       15,000
Subtotal                                                      26,000
(03) Materials
Paper, printing etc.                                               30,nno
(05) Travel
Consultants/Visiting staff          (5 x 200,000)                    1,000
Local including members            t3n x 5 x 40,000                 6,000
Subtotal                                                       7,noo
(07) Other
Contingencies                                                       5,nno
Subsistence                         (300 x 40,000)                 12,000
Subtotal                                                     1F'000
Total                                                         80,00o.
2.3   Regional Training Councils:  Annual operating cost per regional coun-
cil. (Assume no. in operation by year 1, 2, 2, 3, 4, 4).
(01) Salaries and Wages                                                    12,000
(03) Materials                                                             15,000
(05) Travel                                                                 3,nOO
(07) Other                                                                 10,000
Total                                                         40,000



- 67 -                            ANNUE ll
Table 3
Page 3
2.4   Pro1ect lirector's Office  (Annual cost).  Excludes local consultancy
fees for Pr: cc ma-nger anm section beads
(01) Salaries and W aes
oa.oraria                                                            45,000
Nonoraria for temporary office staff                                 30,000
Honoraria for committee mebers                                       25,000
Subtotal                                                       100,000
(03) Materials                                                               20.000
(05) Travel                                                                  30 000
(07) Other
Vn-tingencies (1nZ)                                                  15,n00
Subsistence                                                          25,000
Subtotal                                                        40,000
Total                                                          190,000
2.5   ProIeet Related Mansaement Costs:  Annual costs - not covered by apeci-
tic operations (excluding Project Management Office - .75, 1, 1, 1, 1,
.75)
(0) Sal arnd Ya  a
inioirar- for special duties staff (16 x 12 x 200,000)               80,000
Meetings/ provincial visits etc.  Honoraria                          80,000
Subtotal                                                       160,0nO
(03)  Materials
Extra printinglpaper/copying etc.                                   I0O,O
(05)  Trawel                                                                100,000
(07)  Other
m                                                   fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,non
Subsistence                                                          B0,000
Subtotal                                                       140,000
Total                                                          500,000
2.6 Development of Eccupational Standards and Tests. Annual operations
costs tor each tra   sl   area.  kAssume ski' areas dealt with by
year as 2. 2, 2, 2, 4, 4).
(01) Salaries & Wages
ti9noraria                                                           15,000
Fees for local temporary staff                                       25,000
Honoraria for panel membership                                       20,000
St ,Cotal                                                       60,000
(03) Materials                                                              20,000
(05) Travel                                                                   5,000
(07) Other
tntingencies                                                          10,nno
Subsistence                                                           5,000
Subtotal                                                        15 0o
Total                                                          100,000
3t Upgrading and Extension of Training
3.1   Development of TrainingR odules and Materials.  Cost per training module
for desrgn, development, testing of new training materials.  Assume num-
ber developed by year - 3, l, 5, 7, 7, 7.
(01) Salaries and Allowances
Honoraria tar stafF                                                  IS,non
Honoraria/fees for temporary staff & panels                          20,0nO
Subtotal                                                        35,no
(03) Materials                                                              20,000
(05) Travel                                                                   5,000
(07) Other
in3tingencies                                                           1o,nnn
Subsistence                                                           5,0no
Subtotal                                                        15,noo
Total                                                           75,000



-68-                             ANNEX 11
Table 3
Page 4
3.2   Instructor Training.  Annual cost
(01) Salarles and WAges
Honoraria torIslaff                4 x 10 x 12 x 100,000           50,000
Honoraria for temporary/part time staff                            25,000
Subtotal                                                     75,000
(03) Materials                                                            30,000
(05) Travel                                                               15.000
(07) Other
r r                                                                15,000
Subsistence                                                        15,000
Subtotal                                                     30,000
Total                                                       150,000
3.3   Incentive Schemes for Part-Time Instructors.  Inoremental cost per
module-class.     - 5. 10, I5, Z0, ZU, 20
(01) anlaries Id Wages
Honoraria                          (15 weeks x 200,000)             3,000
3.4   Supervisory Training and Productivity   Cost per module for develop-
mentltr1al etc. Asmae schedule Z, z, 4, 4, 2, 2. Cost as for 3.1.
(01) Salaries and Wages                                                   35,000
(03) Materials                                                            20,000
(05) Travel                                                                5,000
(07) Other                                                                15,000
Subtotal                                                     75,000
3.5   In-Plant Training. Annual cost for each Industrial Training Development
Unit rITDUyT l, Z, 2, 4, 4, 4.
(01) aalaries nd Wages
Honoraria                          2 x 12 x 400,000                10,000
Honoraria for specialist staff    (3 x 12 x 1.000.000)             36,000
Subtotal                                                     46,000
(03) Materials (including printing and publicity)                         20,000
(05) Travel                                                                5,o00
(07) Other
TM)                                                                 19,000
Subsistence                                                        10,000
Subtotal                                                     29,000
Total                                                        100,000
3.6 Self-employment/Informas Sector and Mobile Training. Average cost for
deveIiopment, implemeIntation and monitoring per module-class 3, 4, 6, 6,
8, 8.
(01) Salarles and Wages
Hinoraria for staff                                                 2,000
Honoraria for temporary or
part-tine staff                                                   1,000
Subtotal                                                      3,000
(03) Materials                                                             3.000
(05) Travel                                                                2,000
(07) Other
liuFsistence                                                         1,000
Support, follow-up for
trainees                                                          2,000
Subtotal                                                     30,000
Total                                                         11,000



- 69 -
ANNEX 11
Table 4
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements                       Regional education
IBRD       Amount per   Cumulative                         projects disbursement
fiscal       semester       amount      Cumulative               profile /a
year       - -US$ million-                                          (2)
1987
1            0.5            0.5             1                         0
2            0.5            1.0             2                         2
1988
1            1.0            2.0             4                         5
2            1.5            3.5             6                        11
1989
1            4.5            a.0            14                        18
2            6.0           14.0            24                        26
1990
1            6.0           20.0            35                       36
2            7.0           27.0            46                        47
1991
1            7.0           34.0            59                        57
2            6.5           40.5            70                        66
1992
1            6.5           47.0            81                       74
2            5.0           52.0            90                        81
1993
1            4.0           56.0            96                       86
2            2.1           58.1           100                        91
/a  The regional education disbursement profile is based on historical data
for 29 projects and represents the initial 7 years of an average disburse-
ment period of 9 years.



- 70 -
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 "Industrial Training: Report on the Findings of the July 1984 Industrial
Survey," September 1984.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 "Manpower Planning and Vocational Training Project," MOM with assistance
of British Council. Volumes 1, 2 and 3, October 1985.
B.2  "Tracer Study of BLK Graduates," MOM report by David Clark, June 1985.
B.3  "The Manpower Planning and Labor Market Information Component,' David
Clark, July 1985.
B.4 "Observations about Labor Markets in Indonesia," David Clark, September
1984
B.5 Technical Assistance Proposed for East Java Regional Component - ILO
November 1985
C. Working Papers
C.1 Project Management - November 1985
C.2 Staff Development and Training 1986/87-November 1985
C.3 Terms of Reference for Consultant Services - December 1985
C.4 Project Activities and Development Budget 1986/87-November 1985.



~~~7 ~~~~5jd2 ~~~~~~ ~                   >7 
~~~r ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~  *~~J
'.4        w                            )
I K~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~       i           m
8                                     CL~~~~
lEant   N  (U PPUA  EW-GINE






