Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15463
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN no.2705-IND)
MARCH 15, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Rp 1,100
At time of appraisal
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APBN         -      Annual National Development Budget
BAPPENAS  -         National Development Planning Board, Jakarta
BLK          -      Ministry of Manpower vocational training centres
ITDU         -      Industrial Training Development Unit
MOM          -      Ministry of Manpower
PMO          -      Project Management Office
Pusdiklat    -      MOM's Staff Development and Training Centre, Jakarta
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .............                                                                                              i
Evaluation Summary ............... ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                                             3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                                           6
D. Project Sustainability.                                                                                         9
E. Bank Performance.                                                                                              10
F. Borower Performance .11
G. Assessment of Outcome .11
H. Future Operation .12
l. Key Lessons Learned .12
Part 11. Statistical Annexes
Table 1. Summary of Assessments.                                                                         14
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3. Project Tietable .17
Table 4. Loan Disbursements .17
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                                      18
Table 6. Studies Included in Project .20
Table 7A. Project Costs .          ................................................................... 21
Table 7B. Project Financing ...................................................................          21
Table 8.   Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................. 22
Table 9.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................................... 23
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions ............................................................. 24
Table 11. Comparative Ratings ................................................................... 25
Appendix A:                Mission's Aide-Memoire ........................................................... 26
Appendix B:               Map No. IBRD-19401
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by mcipients only in the perfonnance of their
I  icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan no. 2705-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Manpower Development and
Training project in Indonesia, for which loan no. 2705-IND in the amount of US$ 58.1 million
equivalent was approved on 29 May 1986 and made effective on 24 September 1986.
The loan was closed on 30 June 1995 compared with original date of 30 June 1993. Final
disbursement took place on November 14, 1995, at which time a balance of US$ 1,023,093.93
was canceled. An amount of US$ 3.2 million had previously been canceled.
The ICR was prepared by John Newman of the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department HI and Shafiq Dhanani, consultant, and reviewed by Samuel
Lieberman, Acting Division Chief and Richard Calkins, Project Adviser. The borrower has
provided comments on the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower has not
contributed its own final evaluation report on the project.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan no. 2705-IND)
Evaluation Summary
(i).   The overall objective of the project was to improve the competitiveness and productivity
of industry through improved skills of industrial manpower. This was to be accomplished by
addressing, in a comprehensive manner, the main issues in manpower planning and training,
including those relating to management and institution building, and to the development of
training relevant to employment needs. Thus, the specific objectives set forth in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(a)   Upgrade the Ministry of Manpower's (MOM's) existing training systems,
facilities and programs in line with employment and industrial development needs;
(b)   Develop non-institutional forms of training consisting of in-plant training, training
for self-employment and for the informal sector, and mobile training in selected
pilot provinces;
(c)   Improve the MOM's training management systems and management capacity;
(d)   Establish national and regional vocational systems (including a joint training
scheme with industry and occupational standards and certification); and
(e)   Strengthen labor market and planning information systems (national and
provincial).
Achievement of Objectives
(ii).  Based on the limited achievement of objectives and the lack of sustainability, the project
has been rated unsatisfactory. Except for the implementation of staff training, few of the other
expected outputs were achieved. Below we discuss in more detail the achievements in relation to
the original five objectives.
(iii). Upgrading MOM's Training System, Facilities and Programs. The objective was to
achieve higher capacity utilization, better-quality training and more relevant training programs in
33 medium and large training centers, to address the needs of industry and of employment
generation. The SAR predicted that, as a result of the inputs of the project, the utilization rate of



iii
the BLKs would increase from the 25 percent prevailing before the project to 75 percent. While
staff were trained, the utilization rate in these 33 training centers has averaged 33 percent from
1989 to 1995, with substantial year to year fluctuations. In addition, today there are nearly twice
as many instructors as in the early 1980s when the BLKs had nearly twice as many trainees as
they do now.
(iv).  Non-Institutional Training.  This objective aimed at improving MOM's capacity in
selected provinces to deliver non-institutional forms of training, and contained the following
three distinct sub-objectives: improving in-plant training in industry, improving training and
courses relevant to self-employment and to the informal sector for owners of micro-enterprises
(already employed), and piloting new forms of mobile training, also aimed at generating
employment and incomes in the informal sector. Some six Industrial Training Development Units
(ITDUs) were set up in Surabaya (3), Jakarta (1), Medan (1) and Palembang (1), and undertook
group training of company training officers and in some cases of supervisors, usually in hired
classrooms or in the MOM training centers. Once the project ended, all ITDUs were disbanded.
(v).  Pilot training courses were implemented under the project in a few provinces in
entrepreneurship and agricultural processing for micro-enterprise owners. These were not
evaluated and were not continued by MOM following the end of project activities. In addition,
the project attempted to develop an open training system, consisting of preparing and distributing
training materials to local communities and with local persons acting as tutors, but this scheme
was not tested in the field, and aborted at the end of the project.
(vi).  Improvement of Training Management Systems & Management Capacity. Improving
MOM's management capacity was to be achieved by reforming management systems and
providing staff development training. Some progress was made during the project and has
continued afterwards. Recently, the Government has formed a new directorate general within
the MOM (the Directorate General for Productivity and Training) and has initiated a series of
reforms aimed to improve: a) the relevancy of training to labor demand; b) the quality of
training in more advanced technology; and c) the way in which the MOM operates by
concentrating policy decisions at the central level and decentralizing implementation to the
provincial level.
(vii). National and Regional Training Systems. The development of the national and provincial
vocational systems involved the distinct sub-objectives of establishing (i) national and regional
training councils, (ii) a joint industrial vocational training system and apprenticeship scheme, (iii)
occupational standards and skills standards, and (iv) a skills certification system. The national
and regional training councils were established, but did not prepare or monitor manpower
development and training plans. A joint industrial vocational scheme was designed and pilot
tested in some provinces, but not thoroughly evaluated and abandoned after the end of the
project. New occupational standards, skills standards and skills tests developed by the
UNDP/ILO East Java Component concentrated on building trades rather than industrial trades.



iv
These do not appear to have been integrated in the existing system, nor adopted, disseminated or
used by other provinces.
(viii). Labor Market Information & Manpower Planning Systems. The objective was to develop
both labor market information and manpower planning capacity to serve the information needs of
government, employers, training providers and individual trainees. However, labor market
indicators and signals provided by trends in wages, expatriate labor, and labor mobility were not
collected. Nor did the component collect training data or analyze training outcomes of the
various pilot projects to be undertaken by other components as envisaged in the SAR.
Lessons related to training in Indonesia
(ix).  As the paradigm that prevailed at the start of the project is less widely accepted today, the
GOI must weigh the experience gained from this project as well as international experience in
formulating its current training policy. Based on the experience of this project, it can be safely
inferred that:
a)    Training instructors were not sufficient to raise the utilization rate of BLKs; and
b)    At the low utilization rates, the per trainee unit costs were relatively high.
(x).  It is also important to note that, because no systematic evaluation of the BLKs was done,
there are some lessons that one might have wanted to draw, but, strictly speaking, cannot be
drawn from the available information. For example, it is not possible to determine:
a)    Whether the BLKs are cost effective since there is virtually no information on the
benefits or on the costs of achieving the objective of the BLKs through an alternative
program;
b)    Whether there was substantial variation in performance across different BLKs;
and
c)    By how much average performance could have been improved by strengthening
the poorest performing.
(xi).  Despite the considerable uncertainty remains about the effectiveness of the BLKs, the
results from this project as well as from other studies at least suggest that the BLKs should not
be the only instrument (and, in heir current form, possibly no the main instrument) used to
support the GOI training policy.



v
Lessons for the Bank
(xii). The lessons of this project for the Bank are similar to ones that have been drawn from the
recent implementation experience of other projects:
a)    During preparation, the project should be subject to more rigorous economic
analysis. A strong case must be made that the proposed activities resolve the key
constraints that stand in the way of a desired development impact.
b)    The Bank, as well as the government, should scrutinize carefully projects that rely
heavily on technical assistance.
c)    Explicit criteria for project success should be agreed upon between the
government and the Bank and these criteria should be checked for their realism.
d)    Outcome measures should be tracked over the course of the project.
Lessons for the Government
(xiii). The GOI is, of course, in the best position to draw lessons from the experience of this
project. However, it might be useful for the government to consider in their future work with
the Bank and other donors:
a)    How to make more effective use of technical assistance. Is technical assistance
being used to substitute for activities that are better done by government staff.?
b)    How to ensure that the workers make use of the investments in their upgraded
skills. General management training may have very low returns if the individual has no
scope for influencing the particular decision or outcome at hand. Similarly, investing in
upgrading the quality of instructors in training centers may have low returns if capacity
utilization rates of the centers remain low.
c)    How and when to undertake pilot implementations and evaluations.  When
undertaking a pilot, the criteria for success should be clear at the outset. Policy makers
should be in a position to identify the information they require to take policy decisions.
d)    How  to ensure internal consistency between stated objectives and resource
allocations. If the instructors in the training centers are not going to be used intensively
after the training period, then it may not make economic sense to invest in upgrading
their quality.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan no. 2705-IND)
Part I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Statement of Objectives.  The overall objective of the project was to improve the
competitiveness and productivity of industry through improved skills of industrial manpower.
This was to be accomplished by addressing, in a comprehensive manner, the main issues in
manpower planning and training, including those relating to management and institution
building, and to the development of training relevant to employment needs. Thus, the specific
objectives set forth in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(a)   Upgrade the Ministry of Manpower's (MOM's) existing training systems, facilities and
programs in line with employment and industrial development needs;
(b)   Develop non-institutional forms of training consisting of in-plant training, training for
self-employment and for the informal sector, and mobile training in selected pilot
provinces;
(c)   Improve the MOM's training management systems and management capacity;
(d)   Establish national and regional vocational systems (including a joint training scheme with
industry and occupational standards and certification); and
(e)   Strengthen labor market and planning information systems (national and provincial).
2.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were set largely in accord with
the paradigm influencing training and vocational education at the time of the preparation of the
project. Following that paradigm, skills shortages were identified through manpower projections
and an assessment was made of the quantity and quality of the available supply. If the predicted
supply was expected to be insufficient in either quantity or quality to meet the expected demand,
further public investments were considered to be justified. The exact nature of the investments
depended upon an assessment of the particular situation in a country.
3.    The SAR made manpower projections for Indonesia that suggested that the need for
skilled workers would greatly exceed the supply. It presented a diagnosis of the problems facing



2
MOM's Vocational Training Centers (BLKs), one of the two main sources of the supply of
skilled manpower. The other main source was the vocational school system being run by the
Ministry of Education, which the Bank was not supporting at the time. The focus of the project
on vocational centers reflected part of a trend in Bank lending away from diversified and
vocational education schools towards center-based vocational training and development of
national training authorities. This shift was heavily influenced by evaluations conducted in the
1970s by the Bank's Operations Evaluation and Education and Training Departments that had
raised doubts about the cost-effectiveness of vocational schools.
4.    The SAR's assessment of the state of the BLKs prior to the project was that they were:
a) relatively well-equipped; b) of low quality; c) running short 3 month courses that were not
sufficiently advanced to be of interest to industry; d) able to operate at a reasonably low per unit
cost (approximately US$140 per three month training course; and e) underutilized. The low
utilization was believed to be due to the low quality of the courses (attributed mainly to the low
quality of the instructors), the inappropriate nature of the courses, and the funding problems
related to the allocation of the government budget.
5.    The SAR also noted weaknesses in MOM's management. This was evident from the
failure to diagnose and correct the problems of the vocational training centers. In addition, the
prior difficulties that the MOM had experienced implementing components of previous loans
(Credit 219-IND and Loan 1237-IND) also suggested the need for technical assistance.
6.    Based on this diagnosis, the SAR identified the project's key objectives to be: a) to
upgrade MOM's  training facilities;  and b) to improve training management systems and
management capacity. The bulk of the funds were allocated to components designed to meet
these objectives.
7.    The inclusion of the other objectives suggests that the project was designed not only to
improve existing MOM operations, but also tried to change the nature of the activities that the
MOM was then undertaking. Indeed, the SAR mentions that the proposed project would
constitute the first phase of a long term development program focusing on institutional
development and the formulation and implementation of new policies for manpower development
and training. The SAR did not, however, clarify where this long term development was
heading. It did not discuss the type of training system that might exist or that might be desirable
in the short or medium term. This omission makes it more difficult to see how the different
components of the project fit together, to appreciate the strategic importance of the pilot
demonstration projects or to understand why all of the objectives had to be addressed at the same
time.
8.    Project Comnplexity and Risks. The SAR considered the main risk of the project to be
possible delays in implementation. The project sought to reduce this risk with a large component
of technical assistance involving over 200 consultants (106 man-years of international and 112



3
man-years of national consultants) or 60 consultants on average per year, over a relatively short
period of time.
9.    In justifying its approach to mitigating risks, the SAR cited the lessons from the Project
Completion Report on Loan 1237-IND, namely: a) the need to provide adequate technical
assistance for both project planning and implementation; b) the importance of timely
appointments of PIU personnel and training of a sufficient number of staff; c) the need to
monitor training outcomes and to give due regard to the quality of skills training; and d) the
importance of effective coordination of project activities and implementation.
10.   Project files record concerns expressed by the USAID office in Jakarta and by staff in the
Bank's resident mission in Indonesia about the ambitious nature of the project scope, especially
given the track record of the Ministry of Manpower, and the extensive use of consultants as a
strategy to reduce the risk. No response to those concerns is available in the files.
B. Achievement of Objectives
11.   The five project objectives presented above were organized into three corresponding
project components, each with subactivities that were expected to be completed over the life of
the project. The most important component (with US$ 41 million allocated) encompassed the
two objectives of: a) upgrading MOM's existing training systems, facilities and programs; and b)
developing non-institutional forms of training. Of the two, the first objective received by far the
most funds.  The second most important component (with US$ 18 million allocated)
encompassed the two objectives of: c) improving the MOM's training management systems and
management capacity; and d) establishing national and regional vocational systems. The third
component (with US$ 9 million allocated) included only the one objective of (e) strengthening
labor market and planning information systems.
12.   Table 5 compares the expected output identified in the SAR with the actual achievements
of the project. In section II, labeled Modified Indicators, Table 5 compares expected outputs and
achievements for those activities that were not part of the original design of the project. Except
for the implementation of staff training, few of the other expected outputs were achieved. Below
we discuss in more detail the achievements in relation to the original five objectives.
13.   Upgrading MOM's Training System. Facilities and Programs. The objective was to
achieve higher capacity utilization, better-quality training and more relevant training programs in
33 medium and large training centers, to address the needs of industry and of employment
generation. A large number of senior-secondary-school leavers were sent to MOM's instructor
training facilities, on six-month to two-year programs, to be trained as instructors for MOM's
expanding network of smaller training centers. In addition, a large number of experienced



4
instructors were sent on instructor training courses to Italy, Ireland and other locations for
periods ranging from six to eighteen months.
14.   The SAR predicted that, as a result of the inputs of the project, the utilization rate of the
BLKs would increase from the 25 percent prevailing before the project to 75 percent. While
staff were trained, the expected 75 percent utilization rate of the BLKs did not materialize.
From 1989 to 1995, the utilization of the 33 training centers has averaged 33 percent. There
have been substantial year to year fluctuations strongly correlated with the variations in
Development Budget allocations. In the larger centers, the student to teaching staff ratio has
remained at 10 to I and the teaching to non-teaching staff ratio has remained unchanged at 1 to
1.
15.   Recent estimates suggest that the per trainee costs are considerably higher than reported
in the SAR (US$560 per trainee on an annualized basis). The Bank's recent Labor and Training
Study estimates the costs at around US$1,000 per trainee on an annualized basis.  Other
estimates done as part of a small-scale review of the BLKs arrived at a figure of roughly US$750
per trainee on an annualized basis. Today there are nearly twice as many instructors as in the
early 1980s when the BLKs had nearly twice as many trainees as they did before.
16.   A more expensive training system does not necessarily mean that the system is less cost-
effective. It depends on what happens to the benefits. It is possible that the quality of the
training did increase, thereby making it more likely that the trainees would find employment and
allowing trainees to become more productive in their jobs.  Unfortunately, it is virtually
impossible to determine whether this was the case, as no systematic evaluation of the usefulness
of this up-grading program was undertaken (as required in the SAR). A 1992 MOM study did
collect information on 172 BLK graduates and 172 non-BLK graduates in 97 firms. However,
doubts about the sampling procedure and the sample size limits the conclusions that could be
drawn.
17.   There is some limited information on the perceptions of the quality of training as
perceived by the trainees themselves. A November 1989 supervision report summarized the
findings of one survey of overseas trainees. Of the 45 out of 164 who responded to the
questionnaire, 66 percent reported good or satisfactory quality of training. No follow-up with
the 73 percent who did not reply was available in the files.
18.   Other discussions with trainees undertaken as part of the ICR process indicated that no
systematic training needs assessment of the candidates was undertaken prior to launching this
relatively expensive program and, as a result, the technical content of courses taken abroad was
relatively basic, and a repetition of what instructors already knew. The English language training
program for language instructors, both in-country and abroad, was considered by the trainees to
be more successful.



5
19.   Non-jistitutional Training.  This objective aimed at improving MOM's capacity in
selected provinces to deliver non-institutional forms of training, and contained the following
three distinct sub-objectives: improving in-plant training in industry, improving training and
courses relevant to self-employment and to the informal sector for owners of micro-enterprises
(already employed), and piloting new forms of mobile training, also aimed at generating
employment and incomes in the informal sector. Some six Industrial Training Development Units
(ITDUs) were set up in Surabaya (3), Jakarta (1), Medan (1) and Palembang (1), and undertook
group training of company training officers and in some cases of supervisors, usually in hired
classrooms or in the MOM training centers. Once the project ended, all ITDUs were disbanded.
20.   Pilot training courses were implemented under the project in a few provinces in
entrepreneurship and agricultural processing for micro-enterprise owners. These were not
evaluated and were not continued by MOM following the end of project activities. In addition,
the project attempted to develop an open training system, consisting of preparing and distributing
training materials to local communities and with local persons acting as tutors, but this scheme
was not tested in the field, and aborted at the end of the project.
21.   Imrovement of Training Management Systems & Mangement Capaci. Improving
MOM's management capacity was to be achieved by reforming management systems and
providing staff development training. The project produced a number of plans for MOM's
strengthening management system, including a plan for its internal staff development training
center (Pusdiklat), and a personnel planning and performance appraisal system. Senior officials
within the MOM and Bank Staff perceive there to have been an improvement in the competency
of the staff as a result of the project. In addition, the project helped computerize the Bureau of
Personnel within MOM and upgraded the staff Education and Training Center. Since the end of
most of the project activities, the Government has formed a new directorate general within the
MOM (the Directorate General for Productivity and Training) and has initiated a series of
reforms aimed to improve: a) the relevancy of training to labor demand; b) the quality of
training in more advanced technology; and c) the way in which the MOM operates by
concentrating policy decisions at the central level and decentralizing implementation to the
provincial level.
22.   Considerable effort was directed at supporting a project management office (PMO).
While this undoubtedly lead to a smoother project implementation, it did not lead to a lasting
impact within the Ministry. The project management staff lasted only as long as the project and
was staffed, not by MOM regular employees, but by consultants and retired MOM officials.
23.   National and Regional Training Systems. The development of the national and provincial
vocational systems involved the distinct sub-objectives of establishing (i) national and regional
training councils, (ii) a joint industrial vocational training system and apprenticeship scheme, (iii)
occupational standards and skills standards, and (iv) a skills certification system. The national
and regional training councils were established, but did not prepare or monitor manpower



6
development and training plans. A joint industrial vocational scheme was designed and pilot
tested in some provinces, but not thoroughly evaluated and abandoned after the end of the
project. New occupational standards, skills standards and skills tests developed by the
UNDP/ILO East Java Component concentrated on building trades rather than industrial trades.
These do not appear to have been integrated in the existing system, nor adopted, disseminated or
used by other provinces.
24.   Labor Market Information & Manpower Planning Systems. The objective was to develop
both labor market information and manpower planning capacity to serve the information needs of
government, employers, training providers and individual trainees. However, labor market
indicators and signals provided by trends in wages, expatriate labor, labor mobility were not
collected. Nor did the component collect training data or analyze training outcomes of the
various pilot projects to be undertaken by other components as envisaged in the SAR. The
greatest effort was expended developing aggregate national and provincial manpower projections
using the manpower requirements approach..  Only one small establishment survey was
conducted towards the end of the project to collect vacancy, skill shortage, occupational
employment and training data. As a result, the subobjective of disseminating labor market
information to employers, individual trainees or students, and to training providers was not met.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   Based on the supervision reports, it does not appear as if the project was severely affected
by factors outside of its control. The explanation for the poor results must therefore be based on
a combination of design flaws and difficulties in implementation.
Failure to improve utilization of BLKs
26.   The low utilization rates, the substantial year-to-year fluctuations in the number of
trainees and the strong correlation between the fluctuations in the number of trainees and the
amount of the development budget suggests that the original diagnosis made in the SAR was
incorrect. The quality of the staff was not the key constraint restricting the utilization of the
BLKs. If it had been the key constraint, one would have expected to see courses operated
throughout the year, with each quarterly course being well under capacity. One also would not
have expected to see such dramatic swings in enrollment with roughly the same physical facilities
and instructors. In fact, what one observes (and observed) is a low capacity utilization due to
almost all courses being conducted over only one third of the year. While the DIP funds were
available, the courses are well subscribed. The problem is that over the remainder of the year
when DIP funds are not available, few courses are given and the instructors (although continuing
to be paid) are underemEployed.



7
27.   The failure of the project to improve utilization can also be attributed to the fact that very
little attention was given to tracking the main outcome of interest throughout the life of the
project. What was happening in the BLKs? Were utilization rates increasing? Were graduates
doing better? Were employers of graduates of BLKs more satisfied? Although the supervision
reports for the first four years of the project consistently rated the project as 1 in both its
implementation status and development impact, these questions were not addressed adequately.
This failure is even more glaring given the focus on improving management and on labor market
information systems within the project. A belated attempt to undertake an evaluation of the BLKs
was initiated at the time of the second extension of the project, but this was already too late and,
in any case, was never completed.
28.   The lack of attention to important outcome indicators also contributed to the limited
connection among the different components noted by Bank and government personnel in
preparing the ICR and by several Bank staff in the later supervision reports. The training of
training instructors and of management staff proceeded without adequate feedback on what the
market thought of their product.
Failure to have a lasting effect on management practices of the MOM
29.   The apparently minimal impact of the project on the management practices of the MOM
can be attributed to: a) the extensive use of consultants; and b) the lack of clarity about the
specific problems the management training was supposed to fix. MOM's technical units relegated
most of the responsibilities for project planning, implementation and monitoring to the consulting
firms, and MOM counterparts were involved only at the project's periphery during formal
presentations and seminars. Even field work required for the project's many pilot projects was
undertaken almost exclusively by consultants. MOM counterparts, though appointed to the
project on paper, were not assigned on a full-time basis to the consultants, and were involved in
numerous parallel activities, especially off-the-job training courses, financed by the annual
development budget (APBN). Consultants were isolated from their counterparts and were not
able to interact with their counterparts on a daily basis.
30.   The SAR mentioned that the management practices of the MOM were weak, but did not
specify exactly what the weaknesses were. For example, were the supplies to the BLKs not
being ordered and delivered on time? As with the training of instructors, the SAR did not make
a strong case that it was a lack of training that was the key constraint in bringing about a more
effective functioning of the BLKs and of the MOM. For example, given: (a) the limited funds
available from the DIP to operate the BLKs; (b) the relatively high subscription on existing
courses; and (c) the low student-teacher ratio, a manager who faced no constraints would try to
improve the situation by reducing the number of staff. This would have allowed the BLKs to run
more courses for the same amount of DIP with a slightly higher student-teacher ratio, but
probably not so high as to reduce the demand for the courses. However, the manager of a BLK
then faced and still faces severe limitations in reducing staff. No amount of management training



8
will necessarily overcome that limitation and, under these circumstances, the return to
management training would not be expected to be high.
Failure to evaluate pilot projects
31.   The pilot projects envisaged in the SAR were either not carried out or were carried out
without a proper evaluation. Only the ITDU has had a life after the project. It is hard to say
definitively why so little evaluation of pilot activities was done. However, it does suggest that
whereas the SAR had in mind a strategic role of the proposed pilots, the government did not
view the pilots in the same way. The value of implementing a pilot is that it reduces the
uncertainty that policy makers face in making policy decisions. Obviously, if no evaluation is
done of the pilot, there will be no information provided to help make a policy decision.
However, if an evaluation of a pilot is carried out when there is no policy decision to be made,
the value of the information provided will be low. If the expected value of the information is
low, there is little incentive to ensure that an evaluation takes place.
Other implementation issues
32.   During the project, a number of new activities were added to what was already an
ambitious project. The project was, in fact, implemented in three phases. Phase I covered the
period from effectiveness until approximately April 1990. Phase Ha covered the period from
April 1990 until June 30, 1994, one year after the end of the original closing date. Phase Ilb
covered the period of the second extension of the original closing date, from June 30, 1994, to
June 30, 1995.
33.   At the outset of project implementation, a new component was added to form in effect a
mini-project, with the task of implementing all project activities on a pilot basis in East Java, and
to be executed by ILO out of Surabaya. The East Java project, located in the Surabaya
vocational training center, and not in the provincial office as its broader scope would have called
for, ran virtually independently of the rest of the Bank project and outside the budgetary
mechanism of MOM, and merely continued to implement the activities of a previous, more
narrowly defined, UNDP/ILO project in the same location.
34.   Under Phase IHa, a refocusing of activities in some components took place and some new
tasks were added. The main new developments included: a) the development of pilot vocational
training development centers; b) computerization of labor exchanges; and c) a transition from the
pilot ITDUs into the Industrial Training Development Service.
35.   Under Phase Ilb, a new set of activities were proposed to make use of the remaining
US$2.5 million that remained undisbursed. These activities included: a) an evaluation of the
Vocational Training Centers (BLKs) (US$0.8 million); b) pre start-up of Skills Development
Project (US$0.835 million); c) instructor training of 120 instructors (US$0.4 million); and d)



9
improvement of labor market information system (US$0.2 million). This phase was not
successful. Because of difficulties in arranging for a contract , the evaluation of the BLKs was
never done. Despite the money spent on the pre start-up of the Skills Development Project (on
top of other preparation funds), that project did not hit the ground running. Some one and a half
years into the three year pilot project, less than US$ 2 million has been disbursed and the
project's current rating is unsatisfactory. The labor market information system is still not fully
operational. The training of instructors took place, but as with the other training, it is difficult to
determine whether this had any effect on the subsequent performance of the BLK graduates.
D. Project sustainability
36.   As a result of the two extensions of the closing date, this Implementation Completion
Report has been prepared some three years after the greatest part of the project funds had been
disbursed and corresponding activities implemented. It is therefore possible to take note of which
activities and institutions set in place by the project were continued. This is more easily done in
the case of the management innovations than with the training of instructors within the BLKs.
37.   In the case of management innovations, the overall conclusion is that few of the
innovations in systems and pilot non-institutional training have survived the project's
implementation phase. The MOM's occupational standards, skills standards and skills
certification system remains the same as before. The labor market information and manpower
planning system interventions did not affect or influence MOM's training programs in any way.
As for new forms of non-institutional training, many new training programs and courses in the
areas of in-plant training, self-employment, mobile training, open training and apprenticeship
scheme were piloted. None was expanded or continued by MOM. The regional productivity
centers, which were to receive project support, were not involved in the project.
38.   The only pilot project that can be said to survive is that of the pilot Industrial Training
Development Unit. Even in this case, it is the idea of the ITDUs that has been carried through
in the subsequent Skills Development Project. The actual ITDUs themselves were not supported
by the companies in the intervening period between the Manpower Development Project and the
Skills Development Project and disappeared. The unwillingness of the companies involved to
finance 100 percent of the costs of the ITDUs is an important lesson that must be taken into
account during the Skills Development Project.
39.   In the case of training, it is more difficult to ascertain whether the contributions of the
project have been sustained or not. Although the Bank has not been provided with information on
the percentage of instructors who received the training that are still with the BLKs, the fact that
the BLKs' staff-to-student ratio remains high suggests that many of the instructors remain. To
the extent that the instructors' training lead to better labor market outcomes for the trainees (and



10
the added human capital has not fully depreciated), the effects of the project's investment in
instructor training would be sustained.
E. Bank performance
40.   The Bank's overall performance was rated deficient in both project design and
supervision. The project design was based on the hypothesis that training instructors and
management would lead to a dramatic increase in the utilization of the BLKs. This hypothesis
later proved to be incorrect. Utilization did not increase by as much as expected and appears to
be related more to funding availability than to the lack of training of the instructors. The project
was overly ambitious, given the previous history with MOM and relied too heavily on the use of
domestic and international consultants.
41.   Supervision missions were undertaken by one and the same person for most of the
project's life, and his background as technical educator did not allow him to adequately assess
the labor market for skills and demand for skills training. The first labor market economist was
fielded four years after the start of the project. There was also a one-year break in supervision in
the second year of the project, which proved to be crucial in project implementation. The
supervision reports and Forms 590 did not alert the Bank and the Borrower of the serious
implementation issues affecting the project until three years after the start of the project.
42.   During the first four years, the project was rated as 1 in both its implementation status
and development impact. However, the rating appears to be largely based on the disbursement
progress, on the relatively few difficulties encountered in processing contracts and on the
progress in training staff. Insufficient attention was given to how effective the inputs were in
achieving the desired objectives. Not until a January 1992 supervision report did the Bank note
as problems: a) that pilot activities financed under the project were not always evaluated; b) that
the integration between components needed attention; and 3) that consultants needed to work
more closely with technical staff of the ministry.
43.   Despite its difficulties, the project's closing date was extended twice. The first extension
mentioned that the project had mixed results, which it attributed to a lack of clarity regarding the
responsibilities of project management and the lack of timeliness of Government funding. It was
not until the second extension that a concerted effort was made to undertake an evaluation of
what actually was happening in the BLKs. However, while budgeted to be undertaken during
the second extension, this evaluation was never carried out.



11
F. Borrower performance
44.   MOM  had little experience in obtaining all the necessary domestic approvals for
disbursement of Bank funds, involving several units within the Development Planning Board
(BAPPENAS) and the Ministry of Finance, particularly in gaining their consent to, at times,
drastic revisions in the original spending plans. Nevertheless, MOM did not utilize effectively
the steering committee mechanism set up by the project to solve these issues, nor did it request
assistance from other ministries such as the Ministries of Education, Health and Public Works
who by that time had already gained substantial experience in managing World Bank loans. In
some cases, MOM requested and obtained pre-fmancing of project activities from consulting
firms for activities contained in terms of reference which were not yet approved by the Bank, or
for which the proper bidding and consultant approval process had not been completed.
45.   The MOM did not make effective use of the extensive technical assistance (see above).
While this reflects, to some extent, the low absorptive capacity of MOM for a project of such
complexity and size and the difficulties in communicating in English, the outcome may be
symptomatic of deficiencies in the overall approach of technical assistance within the MOM.
Technical assistance should not be assigned to carry out tasks that are best done by the normal
staff of the Ministry.
46.   The project correspondence and aide-memoires indicate that MOM viewed this project as
a general-purpose loan designed to strengthen MOM's various development and management
activities, with no specific purpose in mind, and with the SAR as general guidelines but not as a
strict implementation plan. While the multiplicity of project objectives and sub-objectives
certainly contributed to this perception, there are also indications that the purpose and scope of
the project, and how the various components all fitted together, were not sufficiently understood
by the beneficiary. A consequence of this lack of definition is that the project's primary function
was seen as the development and training of MOM staff.
G. Assessment of Outcome
47.   Based on the limited achievement of objectives and the lack of sustainability, the project
has been rated unsatisfactory.



12
H. Future Operation
48.   MOM will continue training new instructors and up-grading existing instructors to staff
its nationwide network of large, medium and small training centers, much as it had done before
and during the project, staff training being one of the more consistent development activities
undertaken by the Ministry. It does not, however, intend to continue any of the pilot activities
initiated by the project such as: (a) self-employment and informal sector training, a responsibility
transferred to the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Business; (b) mobile and open training in
agro-processing; and (c) joint industrial vocational schemes. The regional training councils are
being continued, but the regional manpower planning teams and vocational development training
centers (VTDCs) are not.
I. Key Lessons Learned
Lessons related to training in Indonesia
49.   As the paradigm that prevailed at the start of the project is less widely accepted today, the
GOI must weigh the experience gained from this project as well as international experience in
formulating its current training policy. Based on the experience of this project, it can be safely
inferred that:
a)    Training instructors were not sufficient to raise the utilization rate of BLKs; and
b)    At the low utilization rates, the per trainee unit costs were relatively high.
50.   It is also important to note that, because no systematic evaluation of the BLKs was done,
there are some lessons that one might have wanted to draw, but, strictly speaking, cannot be
drawn from the available information. For example, it is not possible to determine:
a)    Whether the BLKs are cost effective since there is virtually no information on the
benefits or on the costs of achieving the objective of the BLKs through an alternative
program;
b)    Whether there was substantial variation in performance across different BLKs;
and
c)    By how much average performance could have been improved by strengthening
the poorest performing.
51.   Despite the considerable uncertainty remains about the effectiveness of the BLKs, the
results from this project as well as from other studies at least suggest that the BLKs should not



13
be the only instrument (and, in heir current form, possibly no the main instrument) used to
support the GOI training policy.
Lessons for the Bank
52.   The lessons of this project for the Bank are similar to ones that have been drawn from the
recent implementation experience of other projects:
a)    During preparation, a strong case must be made that the proposed activities
resolve the key constraints that stand in the way of a desired development impact.
b)    The Bank, as well as the government, should scrutinize carefully projects that rely
heavily on technical assistance.
c)    Explicit criteria for project success should be agreed upon between the
government and the Bank and these criteria should be checked for their realism.
d)    Outcome measures should be tracked over the course of the project.
Lessons for the Government
53.   The GOI is, of course, in the best position to draw lessons from the experience of this
project. However, it might be useful for the govermnent to consider in their future work with
the Bank and other donors:
a)    How to make more effective use of technical assistance. Is technical assistance
being used to substitute for activities that are better done by government staff?
b)    How to provide a clearer focus to management training. General management
training may have very low returns if those who are trained are not given greater scope to
use their new skills and to improve management practices.
c)    How and when to undertake pilot implementations and evaluations.  When
undertaking a pilot, the criteria for success should be clear at the outset. Policy makers
should be in a position to identify the information they require to take policy decisions.
d)    How  to ensure internal consistency between stated objectives and resource
allocations. If the instructors in the training centers are not going to be used intensively
after the training period, then it may not make economic sense to invest in upgrading
their quality.



14
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan no. 2705-ND)
DONESIA
Part If.              STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives                              Partial        Neligible      Not awolicable
(v)             (v)             (v)              (v)
Macroeconomic policies                  C:                                                  W z  E
Sector policies                                                          W Fz  E I
Financial Objectives                     [I In
institutional development                              E               E  W                 z
Physical objectives                    [                                                    W  
Poverty reduction                      [I                                                   W
Gender concerns                                         El E3                               EC
Other social objectives                 EL                             Fl _l I
Environmental objectives                 3                                 ]3
Public sector manapgement               F3             L                 3                [=
Private sector development             F3              LI]             El vI]
Other (specif)                         [I                3l             El                 E



15
Table 1: Summary of assessments (continued)
B.   Proiect sustainabilitv              Likely                    Unlikely           Uncertain
sltor                    Satisfacton          Deficient
C.  Bank performanc(v                                                (v)                 (v)
Identification                                                 1                   Lfl
Preparation assistance               [I]                                           [I]
Appraisal                                                                          Fv
Supervision                                                   FW1 Cl                S
*-saBcton   Satisfilcton  Deficient
D.  Borrower paformance                    (v)                       (v)                      (v)
Preparation                                                                               W
Implementation                       Fl                        C3                       E
C5ovenant compliance                   3                       E1 vl
Operation (if applicable)             El                        El                       El
E.   Assessment of Outcomeyto
Ratsfwto.                   Unsatis&jcto[X    Unsatgs cto
O7-                            (V)             (V)



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/crelt title           Purpose                          Year of            Status
Preceding operadlo
1. Fourth Education     To help meet the country's manpower       1976             Comphted
Project                 requirements at skilled and semi-skilled
worker levels, and supported the
kLn. 1237-IND)          development of additional centralized
workshops and the establishment of
vocational training centers for the MOM.
Following operatons
1. Skills Development   (a) to develop and implement innovative   1994            Under
Project                 industrial skills training schemes within                  implamen-
private enterprises in three provinces as part            tation
(Ln. 3825-IND)          of an overall training program to promote
productivity and efficiency of the economy;
(b) to support a special entrepreneurial
development program for unemployed
university graduates in five provinces; and
(c) to strengthen policy making, research,
planning management capabilities in the
MOM.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                        Date Actual/
_.......  ..                         _      _ .          Lates Estimate
Identification (Executve Project Summary)                                       08-24-1984
Prepaadon                                                                       05-14-1985
,Appraisal                                                                       07-27-1985
Negotiations                                                                     04-23-1986
Board Presentation                              03-25-1986                      05-29-1986
Signing                                                                         06-26-1986
Effectiveness                                                                   09-24-1986
Project Completion                              06-30-1992                      06-30-1995
Loan Closing                                    06-30-1993                      06-30-1995
Table 4: Loan Disbrusements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
Bank FY            FYS7    FY33    FY89   FY90         FY91    FY92      FY93   FY94   FY95       FY96
Appraisal estimate           1.0     3.5      14.0    27.0      40.5     52.0    58.1   58.1    58.1        58.1
Actual                       4.6     12.3    26.7     41.6      46.5     50.7    52.2   53.4    53.7        53.9
Actualas%ofestimate         460      351      191      154      115       98       90      92      92       93
Date of final disbursement:
November 14. 1995



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key SAR Impklmemtston Indkstors                 Es.imatd                                 Acual
L Labor Mutad wfonen & Manpower
Overseas: 30 postz-gduste; Local: 42     Completed.
Staff development                          post-gaduates; 1,.00 shoit coDum  (1,000
MOM, S00 oUter depamets 50 laue)
Four qpes: Curnt, ptojecdiom subsector    Col1ied aep    de_ pm
Libor fobre data by i  yloc.paion           (A)  DIfoSmtal S                         Ody.
labor mmin                                 Nmine types: qualitaive, tunover, wages,  Not collected.
unanployment. vacancies, expaiate,
migrants, graduate traces (2)
Labor demand                                Studies of labor market operation: taining,
implications of new investment projects  Not undecen
Labor supply                                Data on enrollment, output and cost of   Not collectad
MOE, MOM, other Depts, Industry in-plant
trining, private training centers
2. Training nunagement and Nadonal
Training Sygm                         1. Training management: Overseas: 96 (50
Staff development                          long, include. 6 from Pusdiklat, 40 short
BLK Dir); Local: 200 3-month in          Completed.
management. (50 from BLK staff)
Staff development plans. with annual     UndeJakcn
revisions
2. National training system: Overseas: 50  Completed.
study tours: Local: 40 in occupations/skills
testing, 180 in English language.
Achieved.
Management organization                    Pusdiklat staff from 69 to 132; improved
systems for key areas.
Computers in MOM central and regional    Computer system not operational.
offices.
Regional training councils                  Established in all 27 provinces.
Formed.
Joint industry vocational schemc (JIMT      one and two-year apprenticeship courses
established (metal. textile. timber/wood.  Not established.
ago-processing)
Occupation & skill standards. skill testine  Revision oltoccupation standards: kev skills
standards established: skills tests      Partially revised. No test facilities.
implementation - 4 skill test facilities in
BLKs



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementatom (eoi1ti_ued)
3. Upgrudn of T; n Ssam_ Fadlda
Advucd & specialist cozurses
20,000 trainees by end of project       Not established
BLK efficiency                            Capacity utilization raised from 25% to 75%    No Inprovmaent
V                                        (double shift)
lubuctoroshing facilities                 4   inal instructor trauiing facilid.    EMbld
6 isructor facilities upgraded
Not etalished
hIstnzctor Upgrading                      Overseas: total - 174:30 TOT (6 mos), 100
skills (1.5 yr), 30 in-plant and supervisory, 5   Program completed
self-employment, 5 mobile training, and 4
language training
Local: total - 1,740: 1,500 skills (6 mos to 2
yrs) and 240 language training (6 mos)  Program completed
In-plant tnaiing nd supevisory/productivity    IMU's in six provinces; monitoring of costs  Formed, but dissolved. Not cost/omes
trdning                             and outcomes                             ufmnatorv
Self-employment and informal sector training    Review of existing schemes;        No review courses developed. No cost data,
entrepreneurship and management courses.
development of rclated skills training; and
report of costs and outcomes.
IL Modilled Indicators                                   Estimated                                 Actual
Mobile training                           Industrial training in urban areas. agro-  Pilots
proecessing in rural areas; report of
costs and outcomes                discontinued.
Local labor market information             Computerized job-matching system in 4
district offices in Greater Jakarta and   Insaled but inoperaionalout or order.
6 in Greater Surabaya (Phase 11)
Vocational training development center VTDC    2: Pasar Rebo. Jakarta and Ujung Pandang
Evaluations:                                    (Phase 11)                         Set up but dissolved.
MOM Technical Units to prepare evaluation   No evaluation.
of completed project activities (Jan
1992)
PMO's overall evaluation (Jan 1992);    No evaluation
Completion Report (June 1993)
Int'l Seminar on vocational training
February 1994.
Vocational Training Center Evaluation
Canceled.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redefined              Status        Impact of
Study
1. Labor market studies   Improved preparation and    Not undertaken
in key fields of:      implementation of manpower
pmployment in the       policies and programs for Repelita
informal sector,       V and reliable comparative data
employment of women;   on training costs and outcomes
*  ftining; and youth
training.
2. Tracer studies of    Evaluation of training output    Not undertaken
graduates from project-  and relationship with costs and
component training      assembling comparative data
programs, and from      on cost and training
other education and     effectiveness
training program



21
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                   Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Local         Foreign            Total       Local *       Foreign *Total
Item                          ~~~~~~Costs     Costs                        Costs          Costs
I.Civil Works                 ~~2.2            1.2              3.4                                           10,944.99
2.Fumiture, equipment & books             1.3            9.9               11.2                                         382,511.74
3.Technical Assistance (Consultants) .    5.8            13.1              18.9                                         44,683,702.40
4. Fellowships                            6.2            11.7              17.9                                         8,391,063.96
5. Project related operating costs        14.4           1.6               15.9                                         408,682.98
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      29.9            37.5              67.3
6. Contingencies                          10.2           13.1              23.3
7. Poect preparation facility             0.0            0.4               0.4
TOTAL                                   40.1            51.0              91.1                                         53,876,906.07J
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                   Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Local        Foreign            Total        Local *       Foreign            Total
Source                   Costs          Costs                        Costs          Costs
IBRD                                      7.1           51.0              58.1
Loan Amount                                                                                                58,100,000.00
Loan Canceled                                                                                              4,223,093.90
Domestic Contribution                     33.0          0.0               33.0
TOTAL                                   40.1           51.0              91.1                                          53,876,906.07
Breakdownk of costs requested but not received by government



22
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section  Covenant Present   Original          Revised          Description of              Commcnts
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment          coveant
date         date
Loan         3.03           5        CP    1987              -        Prepare anannual
cacht year               comprehensive staff
development plan for
project period covering
key orgnizaton units for
each activity, and appoint
stuff and coumnerpart tams
-ording to the plan
Loan          3.04          to       C       1987            -        Sdect candidates for
throughout                overseas fellowships with
project                   criteria and procedures
pcriod                    acceptable to the Bank
Loan          3.05         5         CP    throughout        -        Carry out project in
project                   accordance with arnual
period                    work program and budget
agreed with the Bank
Loan          4.01(b)      1         C      12187            -        FurnishtotheBank           Submissionofreports
each year                certified copy of audit    delayed n early years of
report not later than 9   implementation.
months after end of each
fiscal year
Loan          5.01         5         C      09/86            -        Appoint key staff of
project director's office
before project
effectiveness
Covenant types:
1. -  Accounts/audits                                    8.  - Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9.  - Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. -Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. -  Flow and utilization of project funds              11.  -Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. -  Environmental covenants                           13.  - Other
7. -  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD =  complied with alter delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



23
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /a
Stage of                 Planned                  Revised                Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks        USS         Weeks       US$        Weeks      USS
Through Appraisal          na           na           na          na         64.8    152,100
Appraisal                  na           na           na          na         40.4     94,500
Board-Effectiveness        na           na           na          na          6.5     16,500
Supervision
Completion                 na           na           na          na         28.3   _80,800
TOTAL                      na          na           na          na        241.7    606,400
/a Data on 'planned' and 'revised' are not provided by the MIS.



24
TABLE 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Project      Month/      Persons     Days in    Specialized   Implementation   Develop   Types of
Stage        Year        (No.)       Field        Skills        Status        Impact   Problem
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal-
Board
Board App. -
Effect.
Supervision        12/86           1          14  TE                         1          1  Contracts
03/87           1          5  TE                          1         1I
Impi.
11/87          1         n.a.  TE                         1         1  delay
02/88           1         36  TE                          1         1
03/89           1        30?  TE                       n.a.       n.a.  policy
07/89           1        n.a.  TE                         1         1  ph 1
11/89          1          24  TE                          1         1  Trg.
02/90           1         33  TE                          1         1  phI1l
Cntr.
06/90           1         45  TE                          1         1  neg.
09/90          2          30  TE,TE                       2         1
02/91           1        n.a.  TE                      n.a.       n.a.  gen.
06/91          2           17  TE, EC                     2         1  gen.
11/91          2          15  TE,EC                      2          2  gen.
04/92          2           10  TE, EC                     2         2  rem.
flunds
01/93          2           8  TE,TE                       3         2
11/93          3          15  3 EC                       2          3
07/93           1         37  EC                       n.a.       n.a.  ICR
Completion



25
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT (Loan 2705-IND)
Table 11: Comparative Ratings
Form 590-Supervision Ratings     MT        Last         Re-evaluation Ratings      ICR    OED
Review    Supervision                            Rating  Rating
7/17/90    9/15/94
Mandatory Ratings                                       Achievement of objectives
Summary Rating:                                         Macroeconomic Policies      NA
Project Dev. Objectives             1           U       Sector Policies             N
Implementation Progress             1           U       Financial Objectives        NA
Other Ratings:                                          Institutional Development   N
Compliance with Legal Covenenat     1           2       Physical Objectives         NA
Proj. Management Performance        1           3       Poverty Reduction           NA
Availability of Fund                1           2       Gender Concerns             NA
Other Social Objectives    NA
Audits and Accounts                                     Environmental Objectives    NA
Overdue fin. Stmnts/Proj. Accts.    0           0       Public Sector Management    N
Overdue SOE Audits                  0           0       Private Sector Management    N
Overdue Special Acct. Audits        0           0
Qualified & Unsatisfactory Audits   0           0       Project Sustainability      Ul
Other Ratings                                           Bank Performance
Procurement Progress                1           2       Identification              D
Training Progress                   1           2       Preparation Assistance      D
Technical Asst. Progress            1           2       Appraisal                   D
Studies Progress                   NA          NA       Supervision                 D
Environmental Aspects              NA          NA
Financial Performance              NA          NA       Borrower Performance
WID Impact                         NR          NR       Preparation                 D
Implementation              D
Covenants Compliance        S
Operation (If applicable)
Assessment of Outcome      HU
Form  590                                              CR
U=Unsatisfactory                                       D=Deficient
NR=Not Reviewed                                        HS=Highly Satisfactory
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory
N=Negligible
NA=Not Applicable
P=Partial
S=Satisfatory
Su=Substantial
U=Uncertain
Ul=Unlikely



26
Appendix A
Mission Aide-Memoire
Enclosed is a copy of the aide-memoire (dated August 4, 1994) wherein the Bank provided advice
and support to the borrower for preparing its own contribution to the ICR. The background work for the
ICR took place between July and December 1995 and was managed out of the Resident Mission in
Indonesia. A draft report was sent to Washington which was subsequently revised in headquarters,
taking into account the history contained in the Asia Information Files. The revised draft was shared with
officials and MOM in early January 1996 and written comments were received from GOI in late January
1996. These comments have been incorporated into the final draft dated January 31, 1996.



27
INDONESIA
Manpower Development and Training Project (Loan 2705-IND)
Aide-Memoire. August 5. 1994 I
1. . This Aide Memoire summarizes the findings of the World Bank Mission by David
Clark (Economist, Consultant). The purposes of the Mission were to: (a) review progress
of the remaining activities of Loan 2705, except for those associated with the Skills
Development Project; (b) initiate preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
for the Manpower Development and Training Project; and (c) begin preparation for
Evaluation of Vocational Training Centers (BLK/KLK). The Mission would like to express
its sincere appreciation for the cooperation and courtesy extended by the Government during
the Mission's stay in Jakarta.
2.    The Mission met with Dr. Yudo Swasono and other officials at the Ministry of
Manpower directly concemed with the administration of the Project and with the BLK/KLKs;
and officials from REDECON and Insan Harapan Sejahtera (IHS), the two firms that have
joined together to form the data collection and analysis team (DCAT) for the BLK evaluation
that has been selected by the Govemment.
3.    Loan 2705-IND Activities. Progress on the remaining activities under the Loan,
except for those associated with the Skills Development Project, are as follows:
a.   International Consultant/Advisor to the Minister. The advisor has been
selected. The contract is tied to the BLK evaluation and cannot be completed
until the contract process for the DCAT has been completed (see para. 4
below).
b.    Unemployment Study. The Unemployment Study is underway.
C.    Evaluation of the National Productivity Center. TORs have been agreed upon.
The Minister has suggested that Singapore's National Productivity Board be
used for this purpose. How this can be accomplished is now being
investigated.
d.    Evaluation of the Skills Certification Program. TORs have been agreed upon
and a search for a consultant has been underway. The Mission suggested that
the ILO be contacted since an outside view from someone with intemational
experience would probably be most helpful.
e.    Management Training of Overseas Employment Agency Staff. Consultant firm
is still to be selected.
4.    BLK Evaluation. It had been expected that the Mission would, under the terms of the
Memorandum of Understanding between MOM and the Bank, work with DCAT and begin
I     This Aide-Memoire is subject to review by Bank management.



28
the Evaluation of the BLl/KLKs that has been requested by the Minister. The contract with
DCAT had not yet been made. It is the Mission's understanding the budget process has
cleared BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance. MOM is now preparing to negotiate with
REDECON/IHS over the final contract. MOM expects the contract to be signed sometime in
August.
5. . Although the contract had not been signed the Mission was able to meet with
REDECON/IHS on several occasions, including: joint visits to MOM and a BLK to look into
availability of data; and a number of work sessions going over questionnaire design for the
tracer study and employer survey and the financial issues that need to be addressed in the
study. Further contacts about the study and questionnaire design will be made by fax and
phone. As noted in the previous Aide-Memoire (May 6, 1994) the next Mission in regard to
the BLK evaluation will be made during month 5 of the data collection activities.
6.    I=eeaonoletion Reo. Discussions were made regarding the ICR. The
purpose of the ICR is to evaluate the project's accomplishments and to draw lessons from the
project preparation and implementation process. The information in the report will also
assist in the preparation of future manpower development projects in Indonesia. The MOM
team was given a copy of the new ICR procedures which calls for two reports, one from the
Bank and an independent report from the Borrower. The Bank is also requesting that MOM
provide certain information and complete various tables about Project activities and
accomplishments to assist the Bank in its ICR preparation. These requests were discussed
with the Government and agreement was reached on what the Government would provide.
The agreed upon data to be provided are contained in the attached two annexes: (a) data
tables which are to completed; and (b) a series of questions about actual activities and
accomplishments of the project. The information in the annexes should be collected prior to
the ICR mission, which is scheduled for early next year following the closing of the loan.



29                                                   ANNEX  1
Page 1 of 2
Implemerdtion: Output Monitodng Indicators
Appransa Plan                              Actua at Complefion
Component & Acvity               (Expted Outcome at Completion)                          (June 199
Labor Maket & Manpowr Planning
Information
Edsablhmentofinformadioin sydm   Instalation, commissIons and operaion of computer
sytemc in al regions.
Staf deopment                    (a) Succesaful compleffon of traning In manpower
planning, labor econmics & pubec administraton:
Overes: 28 MAIMS & P.g. dIplomas; 2 PhD
(b) Establshment of programs of short specialat
training. including successful completion of the
folowing:
- 1.000 Inldatry of Manpowerstf
- 800 staf of other minirdbe in short specialist
courses.
Labor market studies and planning   (a) Improved labor mark,* employment and
operations                          training riformatin and collection, analysis
and dissemination sydem.
(b) National studies, Including manpower and
employmerit Information for Repelita V policis
and programs.
(c) Regional studies In 12 provinces.
Management and Naional Training
Sysems
Upgrading of management         Upgrading systems for
(a) planning, Including training programs;
(b) allocation of resources and budgeting;
(c) phyc ifciitifsutilsizaon; and
(d) monitoring and feedback.
Improved efficiency of utization of   Facilites utilization raised to 75% throughout Bl K
faclItes
Management Informatidn systm    Instllation, commissioning and operation of systems
In central office and in regions
Management saf training         (a) Upgrading of PUSDIKLAT:
6 staff trained overseas
Faciltes
Training programs
(b) Successful completion of training:
1 Overseas: 50 postgraduate management for
central & regional staff
2         Study tours for 30 Training Council
staff and members
3         40 management training for BLK
directors
4 Local:   200 senior staff In short manage-
ment courses
Project Directors Office        (a) Office established.
(b) Efficient systems establshed.
Establish occupationa standards,   (a) Occupational sandards, skill tandards and
skills standards and test facities  tests establshed in priority Industrial subsectors
and occupations.
(b) Skills test facilities established In 4 provinces.
National Training System. Joint  National training policy established.
Indudrial Vocational Scheme (JIVT)



30
ANNEX 1
Pacge 2 od 2
Implementation: Output Monitorung Indlators (coninued
Appraisal Plan                            Actua at Compedon
Componerit & Aclhty              (Expectd Outcome at Completion)                       (Jn 19
Upgrading of Trining
Etabaishmerit of advancd and    Etabishment of advanced and specialized training
speciaized skills traning       modules with annual enrollmont ot 20,000 trainees.
Stall trainingita deopmerit     (at) New training facildes eatablahed In 4 BUKe
and upgrde In 6 BLKe
(4 Twow rtrinrdng programs estabished.
(b9 BiKstaff training:
1. Ovrees: 100 traIe In speoalst
progrms.
2. Local: 1,500 trained In six-month to No-yew
programs.
Estabishment of In-plant training,    (a) SbK Industial Training Deelopmert UNlt (ITDU)
supervisory training and productivity  establbhed.
(D) In-plant tralning estabished In 6 province, for
approxdmately 5,000 trainess per year.
(c) Outcomes and cost monitored to provide
data for plnning.
(a) Strengthened natonal and 5 regional
producvft cnters.
Sellemployment and Informal training  Estabishmernt of training In 10 provinces.
Outcomes and costs monitored to provide data
for planning.
Mobile and open training         Establishment of Initial trtining In 4 provinces.
Outcomes and costs monitored to provide data
for planning.



31
Page 1 of 5
SUGGESTED QUESTIONS FOR THE ICR-MINISTRY OF MANPOWER
Project Context and Design:
Has the project been consistent with the broader policies of the Ministry of
Manpower? How does the project contribution fit within the long-term development
strategy of GOI?
Quantitative and Qualitative Indicators of Project Achievement
Labor Market & Manpower Planning Information
a.    Establishment of information System
SAR Plan:   Installation, commissions and operation of computers in all
regions
What was done during the Project?
What is in operation at end of the project?
b. Staff development
SAR Plan (a): Successful completion for 28 MA/MS and 2 PhDs in manpower
planning, labor economics & public administration
Number of persons educated and in what subjects:
Current work, labor market and manpower planning accomplishments of
individuals educated:
SAR Plan (b): Establish short specialist training programs, including successful
completion for 1,000 Ministry of Manpower staff and 800 staff of
other ministries.
Training programs established and number of staff from MOM and other
ministries trained:
Training programs now in operation; current work assignments for individuals
trained:
c.    Labor market studies and planning operations
SAR Plan (a): Improved collection, analysis and dissemination system for
labor market, employment and training information.
What improvements were made; what system was established?
What is now in operation? How does current system compare with what was
in operation before Manpower Project was started?



32
Amex2
Page 2 of 5
SAR lan (b): National studies, including manpower and employment
information for Repelita V policies and programs.
What national studies were made? What contributions to Repelita V were
made?
SAR Plan (c): Regional studies in 12 provinces.
Which studies were put in operation?
What is current status of regional studies? are they being continued, expanded?
2.    Mana2ement and National Training Systems
a.    Upgrading of management systems:
SAR Plan:   Upgrade systems for: (a) planning, including training programs;
(b) allocation of resources and budgeting; (c) physical facilities
utdlization; and (d) monitoring and feedback.
What systems were developed?
What systems are now in place?
b. Improved efficiency of training facilities.
SAR Plan:   Utilization of BLKs raised to 75%.
What plan was developed to increase efficiency?
What is current rate of utilization of BLKs?
c. Management information system.
SAR Plan: Installation, commissioning and operation of systems in central
office and in regions .
What systems were developed?
What systems are now in operation?
d. Management staff training
SAR Plan:   Upgrading of PUSDIKLAT by training 6 staff overseas and
upgrading facilities and training programs.
How many persons were trained? What facilities and training programs were
improved?



33
AnnexL2
Page 3 of 5
What is current work of persons trained abroad? How is PUSDIKLAT
different that before Project was begun?
SAR Plan (b): Training Managers: overseas postgraduate management for 50
central & regional staff; overseas study tours for 30 Training
Council staff and members; overseas management training for 40 BLK
directors; and local training for 200 senior staff in short management
courses.
How many persons were trained?
What has been the impact on training of the training described above?
e. Establish occupational standards, skill standard and test facilities.
SAR Plan (a): Occupational standards, skill standards and tests established in
priority industrial subsector and occupations.
What were established in what industrial subsectors in what occupations?
What occupational standard, sldll standards, and tests are currently being used
or for what purposes?
SAR Plan (b): Skills test facilities established in 4 provinces.
What skills test facilities were established in which provinces?
Which skills test facilities in which provinces are currently being used? What
was the rate of usage during the most recent fiscal year?
f5 National Training System, Joint Industrial Vocational Scheme (JIVT)
SAR Plan:   Establish a national training policy.
Was such a policy established?
What changes in MOM training have taken place as a result of the national
training policy? What changes in training conducted by other ministries and
by the private sector have taken place as a result of the national training
policy?
3.    Upgrading of Training
a.    Establishment of advanced and specialized training
SAR Plan:   Establish specialized skills training modules with annual
enrollment of 20,000 trainees.
How many specialized skills training modules were established? with what
total annual enrollment?



34
Page 4 of 5
How many specialized skills modules were used and how many individuals
were trained with these modules during the last fiscal year?
b.    Staff training/staff development
SR Plan (al) New training facilities established in 4 BLKs and upgraded in
6 BLKs.
How many new training facilities were established, and where? How many
were upgraded, and where?
What is the current status of the new and upgraded training? What was the rate
of utilization of these facilities during the most recent fiscal year?
SAR Plan (a2) Two-year training programs established.
How many two year training programs were established, in what fields and
locations?
What two year training programs are currently being operated, in what fields
and with how many students?
SAR Plan (b) BLK staff training: 100 trained overseas in specialist programs
and 1,500 trained locally in six-month to two-year programs.
How many staff were trained?
What has been the impact or effect of the staff training?
c.    Establishment of in-plant training, supervisory training and productivity
SAR Plan (a): Six Industrial Training Development Unit (ITDUs) established.
How many lTDUs were established?
How many ITDUs are currently in operation? What has been the effect or
impact of these activities on in-plant training in Indonesian private firms?
SAR Plan (b): In-plant training established in 6 provinces for approximately
5,000 trainees per year.
Where were in-plant training activities established? Affecting how many
trainees per year?
How many employees were trained in the most recent year? What has been
the effect or impact of these activities on in-plant training in Indonesian private
firms in these six provinces?



35
Anne 2
Page 5 of 5
SAR Plan (c): Outcomes and costs monitored to provide data for planning.
Were project activities a cost-effective method of providing additional training?
of increasing productivity?
How have the results of the monitoring being used for planning and
implementing training in MOM? in the govemment?
SA Plan (d): Strengthened national and 5 regional productivity centers.
Which centers have been strengthened?
What were the productivity enhancing activities of these centers during the
most recent year? What is the demand for these services by the private
sector?
d. Self-employment and informal training
SAR Plan   Establish such training in 10 provinces, with outcomes and costs
monitored to provide data for planning.
Where were these activities established? What were the costs. and benefits of
these activities?
How many persons were trained in self-employment and informal sector
activities during the most recent year? How have the results of the monitoring
being used for planning and implementing training in MOM? in the
govemment?
e. Mobile and open training
SAR Plan   Establish initial training in 4 provinces, with outcomes and costs
monitored to provide data for planning.
What training was established, in what provinces? What are the costs and
benefits of such training?
What is the current rate of training in these activities? How have the results
of the monitoring being used for planning and implementing training in MOM?
in the govemment?



36
Technical Asestance: Tralning and Felowshps % _verme and Locol
INumbe Of pWsr)
abor Maket nd Manowr Plannfna
DIpom ad IEbA  oors_ I manprowe planning           30                  42
kbor ooo    and puAo admnretralon, to raise
te 1le  d fanlloed, plnning and naement
capaIy fr repone kl    d planndng office
Short couress: 14 mo.r: Spedaiat techniques ind.
plannIn lbor maket anlrid eurey and stsecal
Isohniciuse.0wiun and mnodtg; Idnnlfoon
aftsining ned anddinIng methodologyfor
(a) Cntral and rg, rna manpor planning staf ol                               1.000
Ihdyb of Mnpower
<4 Stel do er o ndinin  QAukng tdrnng                     tO
wofthopo for use  d output d manpower
Languags trakinWn norm%d  6 month, for tddl                                      50
ovwdd felwhips for ovmo  trairing
suild                             ;         Q30      4       1anO
Trardnno Mt naoment & the National Tradnino Svotem
Ma naogmt Devlopmef
-Postgraduate managen  tr inIng for sected         50
eli iand r gion l dO
-Postgraduate training for PUSDIKLAT staff          6
-Management training for selbed iLK drectors                 40
and sedor stal
-Short program In managment trainng lncludng                                   200
pprux 50 conor BLK staff
Nalonl Training Sydem:
-Study towsc for member of Naional and Regonal               30
Training Councs and senior mnidsby staff
-Study v1alt, short coures and asignmentb - JIVT,           20
occupdonal analysis, t_ting
-Training program In occupadonal analysis,                                      40
sdds, tast
Language training: prpapratory language 2rining                                  180
for stidf to be trained oversea
SubtotW                           56       90         0       420
Uoradnc of Trdnino
Instructor Training:
-Sklse upgradng and intructor training method               30               1,500
for sta of Instructor-training programs
-Specialist skis trining, indusial assignments             100
and trining methods for BLK setion heads &
courses and study vislt
In-plant Training, Supervisory Training and ProductitH -y:
-Training and industrl asignments ovroeas                   30
lor industrial training dwelopment officers of
nTDUs and course in produc2hity, Industrial
engineering Lnd supervisory etudes for
staff of National & Regionel Producivity Centers
Self-employment and informal sector: training assign-          5
ments end study vists
Mobile Training: training asignments and study visIt           5
Language Training: upgrcdng for language teachers              4
Language Training. preliminary training                                          240
Subtotl                            0      174         Q     1740
TOTAL



Stixes Incluied in P.ved
Tracer stAies of graduates  Evaluaion of training output and
"n pectcormnponent         relatonship wthh costs and asserbiing
ruinng program             comparnsv daa on cost an training
Tracer stucies of graduates
rrn other education and
rairong programs.
Labor inket sudies In 12   Imprcved preparaon and Inplmenta-
prwinoes In key fields, e.g.:    tion d manpower policies and pwgrams
- employment in te infomnal   for Repelita V and reliable comparatve
sector.                  data on training cost and outcomes.
- employment of women;
- relraining;
- youth tairing; and
-employment



Tochnica Assistance - Conmitmt Ser, Ine
kpee- Staowo   of wot              O   RRst  l
List of TA paokage            Pw-poe/   le!
A. East Java Ralonul Prolsot
DUNOPLOI                  M    oer developnnt (reglonal.                  OW        061                           4  *
TrWning systum, skb, kistrue 1r                                                            *
In-plwvt and tpervlory tr-ig.                                                           4  *
Mobb trnlig.                                                                            2
subtt                                                  3S2
B Labor Market & Manpower Design, develop wid mplmerit pln-    MOM       0D/86      08192
Plwmkm System              v steme. hAge on ti statl!
devbpment program. Assit wIh the
development and Inplem.ntatlon of
evaluaton ern monitoring, denficaton
t trrainn needs, labor market analysis
and processn of labor market                                                                k
Information.                                                                           10   1
C Menaoement end Stff    Analyss of magement systems-                       8       0V92
Devekxxnent               planing, implkmentaon & monitoring
of trainn; recommendations on
changes; Implementation; design of
data base & Implemewtdati  of sydems                                 25tl1             11  1Z
D. Treinhy Systems, Traiuma  Pocy, occupational a ss, ski tets.          o0s        06/92                         6   10
Modules, InstmctorTralnln    Skgbt rig                                                                           23   30                                                   0o
Instdctor traing.                                                                     5.5    8
subbotal                                               7.7651           34.5 
E.. In-dlantr supoernorv training Design and Implementation of trainn     0a8       06/92
and sroduc                 upport systems for h-plant traing
InciNsdi  IDlTUs and knplementtibn of
supervlsory and pmductty trWining.                                   3,382            121
F. SeNf-emloymrient & htorma  Analysis of needs and design nd             08/86     06/92
tr                       irnplementaton of tranig for self-
employmentand selected occupationa
In f. lnformal sector.                                               t11               I    I
G. Mobile trenir          Analysis of needs and design and               08/86      06/92
Implementation of pilot moble nd open
trainng programs                                                     1.024
Lan ge Training           To strengthen local facltifes                  0888       06/90       _1
TOTAL                                                                _               =                     a12
F - Foreign consultant L   Local consultants.    No separte package for domestc consultants for Ile reglonal subproject



Project Coast by Category
Local  5~   Apti.-. Mq
-ota  -- ts - . Tota l i *-etaste*Ao*    i.t. *-->  ;                               A- ;   ttt 
Category            -            (Rupaoi t) -U   Mt                                     (          
CMil works
CMI works                                 2.4     1.0     3.4        2.2     0.9     3.1
Professional services                     0.0     0.3     0.3        0.0     0.3     0.3
Subtotal                    2.4     1.3     3.7       2.2      1.2     3.4
Furniture. equipment and books
Furniture                                 0.3     0.0     0.3        0.2     0.1     0.3
Computers                                 0.3     0.0     0.3        0.2     2.2     2.4
Tralning equipment and books              0.9     8.4      9.3       0.9     7.6     8.5
Subtotal                    1.5     8.4     9.9       13       9 9
Technical Assistance
Consultants:
Domestic consultants                   4.8      0.5     5.3       4.4     0.5     4.9
Internatonal consultants                1.5    14.0    15.5        1.4    12.6    14.0
Subtotal                    6.3    14.5    20.8       5 8    13      1 9
FellowshIps:                          i 
Localfellowships                        5.5     1.4     6.9        5.0     1.3     6.3                                                             '0
Overseasfellowships                     1.3    11.5    12.8        1.2    10.4    11.6
Subtotal                    6 8    12.9 9         1Z          L       179L
Subtotal Technical Asesetance       3l. 1    274    40.5       12.0    141I   36.6
Prolect-related Operatino Costa
Salades and wages                        6.7      0.7     7.4       6.1     0.7      6.8
Matedeal                                 3.4      0.4     3.6       3.1     0.3      3.4
Travel                                    1.7     0.2     1.9       1.5     0.2      1.7
Other                                    4.0      0.4     4.4       3.6     0.4     4.0
Subtotal                   15.8     1.7    MAl       14.3     11 6    i19
Total Baseline Cost                       32.9    388    71 7        29.6       5       13
Physlceal contingencies                  2.6      2.8     5.4       2.4     2.5      4.9
PrIce contingencies                      6.6    11.6    20.2        7.9    10.6    18.5
Total Prolet Cost             44.1    53.2   97.3        40 1    60M6    90 7
Prolect preparation lacilty                0.0      0.4     0.4       0.0     0.4     0.4
TOTAL COST                   44 1    53 6    97.7 /a    401 6   hA0    MA /a
/a Includes US$3.2 million taxes and duties.






IBRD 19401
INDONESLA
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRANING PROJECT
Training Manogement and the Na a                                 dng     Taining SVtens FccSimes
Training Systerns by Pro-Ane *                                 awnd Progrons bV Pronce
o      Managemnent Ssstemns and Staff                         *      Varcallo  Trnning *
LOr Market and Manpoer Planning                                    Deeloonent       apsvoar TkAlning
Infannonon Svstems by Pmomnce                                 N  atonal and Regonal Training Councils                0      hor T3nino
A      Natlomnl and Regiolo  Praduoctr Contems                 l     Selecto Tring
V      JWT. Occupational StOnlda. Skills TesVt IL 
and Test Centem                                       ei-s                rd  f-I
o     Motile TimIng
*A _0i ai..'vd  bor Ih. nara SAnv  -  nn dA  re Ih em a roS pqec
iiw ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ . 125                  e      Cl Z 
-2R<L       THAILAND    riso                         irr                       N5-                      4iS                        tr                        rio.                      rio. 
Band. Aceh
5.*                                                                                                                           \             PHIUPPINES
13                     MALAYSIA             S.,       u                               BRUNEI                           /
12                           /                                     MALAYSIA j              17 -
- SINGAPORE                                  /fl r . .                                                                                                                      POOon  o .  n1er
0bru 2^SO -                g                *                                      19 - '                     HALMAHERA
o-                                  14                             y  S.Irreilsds
P.dang*01 ~     (             il <1 5   8 * '                   PSJ                                                                               / 25
DK.I. JAKARTA                                                                                                                             LW ErA  0SI Palari5kaiaya  Sl. W   AN  (UL                                               Jayapur.
2 JAWA CARAT                                                   N2                                                                                                   __
3 JAWA ENGAH                   7       8                                                         /  16                                                                                                                   IRIAN JAYA
4 Dl. YOGYAKARTA              *BEU nNG                                             /            t           SolK                -      21    I-
S JAWA TIMUR            BanstuluA                                                                  *                                                                    Amb / 
LAMAPUNO                                                                            Bnir.n                                            ___Abn
7 5ENGKUILU              '_     7                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 //-
5   S SUMATERASELATAN
I0 JAMBI                              SIn               1  *     7--7             -                              InPd-n0*r                                                                                     \           
II SUMATERA BARAT              0 ~.-
n U                                ,~~~~~~~~0  A4RTA-
12 SUMATERA UTARA                                 paCIr         J A        W A-r__\
13   KlACKEr                                                     3A  A_ __ _
1-  ALIMANTAN CARAT,                                                        1
15 KALIMANTAN TEN0AH                                    _                 3              MADURA
iS  'AL IMANTAN SELATAN                 0    't       Bs,,du,',nU                                               OA.
i  KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                       En                       *MBS-I*.7
it SULAWESI TENGAH                                       2                               S           AU
S  UTAFIA   ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMBA WA
i9 SULAWESI UTARA                                                Y9gali.rnoRES
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                            7j  i4                 i   '                     m k                     0ES
22 SULAWI TENGGARA A                                                          U               -                   2                                                                         0      l      200    300    400       500               0
23 NUSA TFENGGGARATCARAT                                                                          '22w                              ___(____300_________
is  24 NUSA TENGARA TIMUR _F_                                                                                                                                                                                     MILES
2I MRIAN iAYA                     _.SUMBA.                                                                                            24     KupesgT       27                               o  r   200  300  400  500  550  700  800
27 TIMOR TIMUR         _ _                   ..      .,,,                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
- e..i in _-                   c.a _ ,n_eA eW~ 
rorrto  ,05* 0520 .26i.                                                                                                                                             i3.                        1s5.                       l
APPi I2PA












