CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 619 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Highway Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Da2ed March 10, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 1976, between the KINGDOM OF
LESOTHO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to enter into an agreement with the
Ministry of Overseas Development of the United Kingdom (hereinafter
called ODM) for a grant (hereinafter called the ODM Grant) to as-
sist in financing Parts A, B, C and D of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
ODM Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ODM; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MW Planning Unit" means the Planning Unit of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Works;
(b) "CMW & PP" means the Central Mechanical Workshop and
Plant Pool of the Borrower; and
(c) "LCU" means the Labor Intensive Construction Unit to be
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.07(a) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-4-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1986, and ending October 1, 2025,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Octo-
ber 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Works with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices; and under the supervision of experienced and competent
personnel, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose, including
whatever funds are needed in addition to those made available to
the Borrower by the Association and under Recital B of this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of plans and specifications for carrying out Parts A, B and
C of the Project, the preparation of bidding documents, the pre-
qualification of contractors, the evaluation of bids and the super-
vision of the road reconstruction and improvement specified in
Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and
to ODM.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequaLe provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed wholly or partially out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed wholly or
partially out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed wholly or partially
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly af-
ter such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the design standards for the roads specified in Parts A and B of
the Project shall be those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish by September 30, 1976, or such other date as
may be agreed with the Association, and maintain in existence for
an initial period of three years, a LCU and a LCU Coordinating
Committee whose organization, ex-officio membership, financial and
operating procedures, powers and responsibilities, shall be mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; and
0         (b)  review, prior to the expiration of the aforesaid period
of three years and in consultation with the Association, the
achievements of the LCU.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
allocated funds and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
cause its equipment for road maintenance to be reasonably maintained
and repaired and to ensure that there are adequately equipped work-
shop facilities suitably located for this purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to cause the roads specified
in Parts A and B of the Project and the link road from St. Michaels
to Masianokeng to be reasonably maintained and repaired in accord-
ance with sound engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary to ensure that the dimensions and axle
loads of vehicles using its gazetted road system are consistent
with the structural and geometric design standards of such roads.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1976, or such
other date as the Association may agree, employ a suitably quali-
fied Mosotho economist in its Hq Planning Unit.


﻿-9-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall (i) discuss with ODM, the
organization and procedures of its CMW&PP and furnish to the
Association, by December 31, 1976, or such other date as the
Association may agree, a plan of action for the ensuing four years
to make the CMW&PP more responsive to user requirements; and (ii)
implement such plan of action after it has been mutually agreed
upon by the Borrower, ODM and the Association.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i)       Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ODM Grant made to the Borrower
to assist in the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the 0DM Grant Agreement.
(ii)      Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, any event specified in
sub-paragraph (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿S                           -11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that (a) the execution and! delivery of the ODM Grant Agree-
ment have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental action, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of such agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been
fulfilled; and (b) the Borrower has employed the engineering con-
sultants specified in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association, namely, that the ODM Grant Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto and is legally binding upon such
parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 28, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿0
- 12 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
0
mm0


﻿-13-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru,
Lesotho
Cable address:
FINMIN
Maseru
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-14                                     0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By Is/ T. J. Mashologu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Road reconstruc-           3,365,000         86% of total
tion and improve-                            expenditures
ment (Parts A and
B of the Project)
(2)  Consultants serv-             13,000         100% of foreign
ices for Parts A                             expenditures
and B of the
Project
(3)  Consultants servi-           372,000         100% of total
ces for Part E of                            expenditures
the Project
(4)  Unallocated                1,750,000
TOTAL       5,500,000


﻿-16                                     0
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of
foreign expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Category (2) on account of expenditures incurred after October 1,
1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $13,000.


﻿-17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percen-
tage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-18                                        0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A.   The improvement to gravel 3 standard and partial bitumini-
zation of about 95 kilometers of the road between
St. Michaels and Mantsonyane.
Part B.   The reconstruction (including partial realignment) to
gravel 4 standard of about 52 kilometers of the earth
track between Mantsonyane and Thaba Tseka.
Part C.   The provision of maintenance facilities on the road
between St. Michaels and Thaba Tseka which will include
(i) housing, a mechanical workshop and two depots; and
(ii) radio communication equipment, workshop equipment
and road maintenance equipment.
Part D.   Technical assistance to the Ministry of Works.
Part E.   The establishment and operation of the LCU on a basis
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consis-
tent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for works shall be required to prequalify and
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be fur-
nished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before
the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Before bids for goods, works or services are invited the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising


﻿- 20                                     0
procedures to be followed for the bidding; and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award i made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in the Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods, works and services estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $300,000 shall be awarded in accordance


﻿- 21 -
with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures, but the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contracts, two conformed copies of such contracts, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. Should
no bids be received for works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000, the Borrower may construct such works by
force account and submit a claim to the Association, together with
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request,
for the reimbursement of the actual cost of such works.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. Maseru price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Kingdom of Lesotho may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:


﻿- 22 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Kingdom of Lesotho if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Kingdom of
Lesotho equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Kingdom of Lesotho.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿-23 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid,
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE      4
Design     Standards      for Project Roads
Design speed    Width (m)      Recommended      Maximum
(kph)                Car-  Grossfall (%)  Gradient   (%)     Curvature
Desir-  Min-   Forma-  riage Pave-   Shoul-   Desir-  Abso-  Desir-    Max-
Terrain      able   imum   tion    way   ment     der     able   lute     able     imum
Gravel 3* Rolling       60     50    6.00    3.50    3       5         5      8     4  30'   80 15'
Hilly         50     35    6.00   3.50     3       5        8      12     60 30' 160 15'
Mountain      30     25    5.00   3.50     3       5       10      14    18 0  0' 330  o'
Gravel 4  Rolling       50     40    4.00    3.20    -       -        6       9     60 20' 140 20'
Hilly         40     25    4.00    3.20    -       -        9      13     80 50' 230   5'
Mountain      20     15    4.00   3.20    -        -       12      16    230  5' 380 55'
*   Stretches of the St. Michaels-Mantsonyane road with gradients in excess of 10% (totalling
approximately 25 kilometers) will be bituminized.


