Wmulin of~                                   DESK
min 7lCIAIL UI2Z ON                .,
MoSzt> No. P-2136-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
August 19, 1977
lls  t     c 2                oUD Ey b3 I e by wgfq ely f lr    p&fG  S
~~~~~~~oyl me            acawX  k (OLOC2g   fe di wtn  WOU0 MMS.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesia rupiah (Rp)
US$1              = Rp 415
Rp 1              =  $00024
Rp 1 million      =  $2,410
Rp 1 billion      =  $2,410,000
GLOSSARY
Balai Penmas    -    Training, Materials Development and Evaluation Centers,
Penmas
BP3K            -    Office of Educational Research and Development, DEC
Butsi           -    National Development Volunteer Service
DEC             -    Department of Education and Culture
IKIP            -    Secondary Teacher Training College
Kabupaten       -    Administrative District
Kecamaten       -    Administrative Subdistrict
LAN             -    Institute of Public Administration
NTCC            -    National Technical Coordinating Committee (for Non-Formal
Education)
PIU             -    Project Implementation Unit
PLPM            -    Educational Center, Penmas
Pramuka         -    Scouting Movement
Unicef          -    United Nations International Children 's Emergency Fund
USAID           -    United States Agency for International Development
YEARS
Fiscal Year - April 1 - March 31
School Year - January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                  $15 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                   Twenty years including five years of grace, with
interest rate at 8% per annum.
Project Description:     The purpose of the project is to strengthen the
capacity of Penmas, the government agency
responsible for out-of-school education, to
provide effective non-formal education programs
by helping it overcome existing problems in
administration, training, materials development,
evaluation and budgeting in seven provinces
comprising the majority of the population of
Indonesia.
In support of the above objectives, the project would
finance physical facilities, regular in-service train-
ing for Penmas staff, non-formal instructional mater-
ials development, a basic learning fund, program
monitoring and evaluation, and related technical
assistance.
In strengthening Penmas, the project would provide
vocational training and basic education to about
2.5 million Indonesians in seven provinces between
1979 and 1982, increasing to one million persons
annually thereafter. The service thus provided
would reach approximately 30% of the out-of-school
population over a ten-year period. The priority
target groups would be the poorest segments of
the population, with special emphasis on women,
out-of-school youths and young adults.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:             The details are shown below.
Local   Foreign    Total
($ million)
Penmas:
Physical Facilities        2.7     5.7        8.4
bIaterials Development,
Program Delivery and
Evaluation                 4.1     1.7        5.8
Penmas Staff Training        2.9     0.3        3.2
Basic Learning Fund          0.7     0.1        0.8
Technical Assistance         0.8     2.4        3.2
Sub-total             11.2    10.2       21.4
Contingencies:
Physical                   1.1     1.0        2.1
Price                      5.8     3.8        9.6
Total                 18.1    15.0       33.1
Financing Plan:             The proposed loan would finance the foreign
exchange component estimated at $15.0 million or
45% of the total cost, the local costs amounting
to $18.1 million would be met by the Government.
Estimated Disbursements:    Bank FY         1978   1979   1980   1981    1982
($ million)
Annual           0.5    2.1    3.6    5.8    3.0
Cumulative      0.5     2.6    6.2   12.0   15.0
Appraisal Report:           No. 1606-IND, dated August 19, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $15 million to help
finance a Non-formal Education Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years' of grace, with interest at 8% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent
Developments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND)
described the recovery of the economy from the world recession and the
financial troubles of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some
of the important development issues which the country faces in the next few
years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74)/2,
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural output expan-
ded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period, the annual rate
of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and investment also rose
rapidly. With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not only
a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. The first two years of the Plan were dominated by the developments
in the oil sector - the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's
serious financial difficulties.  The latter arose from Pertamina's under-
taking of a large and diversified investment program without arranging
satisfactory financing. With the onset of the world recession, bank credit
became much more restrictive. Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-
term debt and failed to meet the financial obligations which were falling
due. In the event, the Government stepped in and undertook to honor the oil
company's obligations. The repayment of these obligations, along with the
fall in export earnings as a result of the recession, necessitated large
foreign commercial borrowing, seriously strained the Government's budgetary
resources and Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in
the foreign exchange reserves.
/1 Paragraphs 2-14 are identical to those contained in the corresponding
section in the President's Report (No. P-2111-IND) on the Second Population
Project, which was approved on June 30, 1977.
/2 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



4.        During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly following
improvements in the world economy, and rose to a level higher than expected
earlier. Imports continued to increase rapidly, but the rate of price
increase slowed down and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. Most of
Pertamina's short-term debt had been repaid by the end of 1975/76, and
disbursements on foreign borrowing continued to be high in 1976/77.    As a
result, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose to a more comfortable
level, i.e. $1.2 billion at the end of 1976 (and even higher levels in recent
months) corresponding to about two months of imports.
5.        The Government's budgetary position was also much better in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also rose over and above
the amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb
smuggling and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional
revenues together with continued restraint in increasing current expenditures
enabled the Government not only to increase development expenditures substan-
tially but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The rate of
inflation over the year decreased, from a high of 17% in the first quarter to
only a modest increase in the last two quarters of 1976/77, giving an average
increase of less than 15% for the year as a whole.
6.        In 1976, the domestic economv recovered in other respects also.
The available indicators suggest that industrial output and private invest-
ment rose faster than in the previous two years. The output and prices of
tree crops rose with foreign demand, thus raising the incomes of the producers.
This provided a welcome relief to the small producers, who had suffered from
the declining foreign prices of their produce combined with rising domestic
prices of consumer goods. However, the production of food crops slackened,
and rice output failed to rise appreciably for the second year in succession.
The domestic price of rice was kept stable by means of very substantial
imports, which reached 1.6 million tons (about 10% of domestic consumption)
in 1976/77. Early in the year floods, and later on drought, affected both
the wet season and dry season harvests.   More importantly, a pest infesta-
tion afflicted large areas in Java, particularly those planted with the high
yielding varieties of rice, and the area under BIMAS and INMAS (the two
credit extension schemes for rice growers) remained fairly constant over the
last three years following a rapid increase during the First Development
Plan period. Rice output also failed to increase because the use of
fertilizer did not rise despite ample availability. The Government has now
relaxed controls on the distribution of fertilizer and set its fertilizer/rice
price ratio at a level that should encourage fertilizer use.
7.          The large increase in the oil revenues over the past three years
has been invested, not consumed. Government development expenditures more
than quadrupled over this period and in 1976/77 amounted to Rp 2 trillion
(or about $5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation
development expenditures rose in real terms by 35% a year. Rough estimates
indicate that at present more than 20% of GNP is being invested in Indonesia.



- 3 -
8.        The effect of the high level of investment expenditures, however,
cannot yet be seen in the growth of the Indonesian economy. In fact, the
economic growth in the first three years of Indonesia's Second Development
Plan, i.e. 1974/75 - 1976/77, has been somewhat slower than the observed
long-term trend rate of 7.5% a year. The world recession, uncertainties
following the Pertamina crisis and domestic inflation (which made certain
domestic industries uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect
on the growth of the economy. Indonesia's growth rate also failed to accel-
erate because the economic benefits from investments in recent years have
been slow in coming and because the growth in the private sector slackened.
New investment has been concentrated on relatively capital-intensive indus-
trial and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods; some projects,
such as Krakatau steel and the LNG, have been further delayed by slow imple-
mentation. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments
in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc. depends on the
growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the
economy, which in Indonesia is mostly the private sector. Unfortunately, the
private sector seems to have failed to provide the necessary momentum of
growth. The indications are that investments in this sector, because of the
Government's attempts to control domestic inflation or because of the world
recession, rose only modestly in the first two years of the Plan.
9.        The orientation of the public sector investments was partly affected
by the Government's takeover of Pertamina's projects in the non-oil sector,
but was also a result of its attempt to raise investment rapidly in response
to the sharply rising oil revenues. It was easier and quicker to develop
capital-intensive projects; plans for several of them in fact existed even
before the improvement in public finances. On the other hand, new projects
in such sectors as rural development, transmigration, health and education
generally required not only innovation but also setting up new institutions.
Nevertheless, the Government views the orientation of its investment program
with some concern. As part of its efforts to rescue Pertamina from bankruptcy,
it initiated a careful review of all public sector investment proposals and
strengthened its control over the direction of investments. Where practicable,
the Government rejected or scaled down costly proposals. The budget for
1977/78 provides for a larger share of development expenditures in such
sectors as agriculture, health, family planning, education and regional
development.
10.      Reliable data on the recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate of more than one million
persons a year, but the current level of unemployment and the extent of
underemployment are not known. While considerable investment activity and
general economic prosperity is in evidence in urban and rural areas of
Indonesia, there is no indication that the.labor market has tightened or that
the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace with domestic infla-
tion. However, the Government's efforts at family planning appear to have
yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates from an inter-censal
survey in 1976 indicate that since 1971 the birth rate in Java and Bali has
declined significantly.
11.        The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and burdensome unfinished investment projects.



- 4 -
The heavy foreign borrowing in the last two years has raised the level of
debt service, which is now expected to reach $1.87 billion by 1980 or close
to 17% of the projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does
not take account of the contingent liabilities incurred with regard to the
hire-purchase of tankers, the exact amount of which is subject to litigation.
12.       The prospects for Indonesia's export are generally good; the
principal constraint is expected to be quantities available for export rather
than foreign demand. Indonesia's export earnings, at least over the next
five years, are expected to rise rapidly and it should not be difficult to
meet the debt service obligations and still to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods. However, to maintain the pace of
development, Indonesia will continue to need a substantial inflow of foreign
assistance on concessional terms. In order to keep the debt service burden
manageable, resort to commercial borrowing in the next few years will have to
be kept to a minimum. It is estimated that Indonesia will need $2.1 billion
in new external financing commitments in 1977, and about the same amount next
year, of which no more than one-third should be on commercial terms. At the
meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) in April 1977,
aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources were made. The
likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did not pledge, from
the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European countries should
raise the total of official development assistance to $1.5 billion.
13.       The heavy foreign debt service requirements will also reduce the
public sector resources available for investment. The net resource transfers
from abroad are expected to decline from $1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about
$640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5% to 1% of GNP. In order to maintain
the high rate of domestic investment already reached, the Government would
need to raise substantial additional revenue over the next few years, the
bulk of which would have to come from non-oil sources. The additional
revenue raising effort is also necessary to keep inflation under control.
The Government has already taken steps in this direction; income tax proced-
ures have been simplified and import duties are being more strictly enforced.
These measures as well as some additional ones need to be vigorously pursued.
14.       The medium-term outlook of the Indonesian economy is good.    Over
the last eight years, GNP rose at an average rate of 7.5% a year, and food
production expanded in step. This rate of growth could be maintained in
future if the rate of investment continues to be high and the orientation of
investments is shifted to less capital-intensive forms.    Thus the Government s
efforts in mobilising domestic resources and careful investment planning
would be crucial in maintaining the relatively high rate of economic growth
and creation of employment opportunities. The Government would also need to
pay special attention to the production of rice, and food crops generally, so
that the recent setbacks remain a temporary phenomenon.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with



- 5 -
resultant increased-incomes) for Indonesia's presently underemployed and
growing labor-force. Major efforts are needed to increase labor-intensive
employment and programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and
their living standards. To assist the Government in attaining its goals, the
Bank is planning to increase its commitments to Indonesia and in particular to
support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit; rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems; assist transmigration and other land development
outside Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employ-
ment in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-
scale industries and rural credit schemes; develop the electric power system;
construct urgently needed water supply and transport facilities.
16.       As of, June 30, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits totaling,
net of cancellations, $561.3 million and 27 Bank loans amounting to 51,312.5 mil-
lion. At that date, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of
the Bank Group in Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at
the end of 1976 was about 6% and the share of debt service was less than 1%.
By 1978 these ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and
IFC Investments as of June 30, 1977, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
nine Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production,
beef cattle,. siugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agriculture research,
food crkppextension services, transmigration and nutrition   development.  The
Operations-atnd.Evaluation Department of the Bank is undertaking a study of
Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector.   In the industrial sector, the
Bank has Iassisted 'in four projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
,and distribution 'capacity, four for development finance companies (Government-
owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of indus-
trial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and
credits have also been extended to the education (including technical and
agricultural education, textbook production, vocational education and civil
service and teacher t-raining),, telecommunications, tourism, power generation
and distribution, transportation (including highways, interisland shipping,
railroads and ports), population, urban and water supply sectors. A loan was
also extended for a national resource survey and mapping project and four
credits for technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing and
formulating its development programs and projects.
18.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; lending on Bank terms began in June 1974. Dis-
bursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels. The
Indonesian authorities have'become increasingly aware of the cost to the
country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures
and of the need to establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the
National Development Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank



arranged in 1974 for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system. It is hoped
that the system, which is due to commence operation shortly, will lead to
better project administration.
19.       The proposed loan is the first to be presented to the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Projects for nucleus estate development, small
enterprise credit, rural credit, and power are expected to be ready for pre-
sentation in the first part of this fiscal year.
Progress Under Previous Education Projects
20.       IDA has made three credits (totaling $24.4 million) and the Bank
two loans (totaling $56 million) for education projects in Indonesia. These
projects were designed to develop skilled manpower in areas crucial to the
economic and social development of Indonesia and to improve the quality of
the education system. The first credit (Cr. 219-IND, 1970) financed the
construction of five centralized workshops (TTCs) to strengthen practical
instruction for 14 satellite senior secondary schools. The project was
completed on schedule in 1976 and the project completion report has been
prepared. The second education project (Cr. 288-IND, 1972) aims at upgrading
and expanding middle level agricultural training; the project is being imple-
mented satisfactorily with minor delays and 26 of the 27 project institutions
have been completed. The third project (Cr. 387-IND, 1973) is contributing
to the improvement of basic education through the production, testing and
distribution of 138 million primary school textbooks and the in-service train-
ing of 350,000 primary school teachers and upgrading of 2,800 supervisors.
The distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been completed.
Production of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1977 is well under way.
Teacher training is being conducted on a large scale, but it has proved
difficult to keep the training program in phase with book deliveries.
Project management, together with UNESCO specialists, is working to overcome
this problem. The fourth education project (Ln. 1237-IND, 1976) seeks to
strengthen technical/vocational training and civil service training.
Initial implementation is satisfactory and the disbursements are on schedule.
A fifth education project (Ln. 1433-IND, 1977), financed under a loan of
$19.0 million, which became effective on July 7, 1977, is designed to raise
the quality of primary and secondary education by improving the knowledge and
teaching skills of graduates of teacher training institutions.
PART III - NON-FORMAL EDUCATION IN INDONESIA
Socio-Economic Background
21.       The cultural and economic disparities of Indonesia's population
pose major problems for the Government in developing its potential manpower.
Although a national language was adopted nearly 30 years ago, and is used



-7-
in formal school classes, many people still rely on one of 230 local dialects
for everyday communications. Lack of access to formal schooling is reflected
in a 40% rate of illiteracy. Not suprisingly, the illiteracy rate is highest
in the rural areas where 80% of the population resides. This in turn contri-
butes to the income and employment disparities between rural areas and urban
localities where educational opportunities are greater. More than 40 million
people are currently in the labor force and a million workers are being added
each year. The Government is aware of the need for offering appropriate
training to these labor force entrants as well as the more than 10 million
workers estimated to be unemployed or underemployed. A high share of these
workers are women and lower income youths in rural areas. To help relieve
this situation Government is looking to its directorate for out-of-school
education (Penmas) for a strengthening of nonformal, out-of-school learning
opportunities focusing on skill training.
Non-Formal Education
22.       Since the 1950s the Government has encouraged and supported the
development of non-formal education programs to complement the formal educa-
tion system. At present, several Government agencies provide out-of-school
education and training. Chief among them is Penmas, located within the
Directorate General for Out-of-School Education, Youth and Sports in the
Department of Education and Culture (DEC). Others include the extension
directorates of the Departments of: Social Affairs; Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives; Home Affairs; and Agriculture. Non-formal education is also
supported by semi-autonomous agencies, including Butsi (the National Develop-
ment Volunteer Service) and Pramuka (the Scouting Movement), and by private
(non-profit and commercial) organizations.
23.       The existing system of non-formal education and training has
developed in the absence of a central coordinating mechanism. In recognition
of the need for such a mechanism, the Government created a National Technical
Coordinating Committee (NTCC) in.1975. The NTCC is responsible for developing
and implementing a national policy for non-formal education and training. It
is chaired by the Director General for Out-of-School Education, Youth and
Sports, and comprises representatives of 12 government and private agencies
which provide non-formal education. A secretariat to the NTCC, chaired by
the director of Penmas and consisting of 17 officials, was appointed in early
1977 to increase its effectiveness.
24.       The involvement of many agencies in non-formal education derives
from the inability of any single agency to cater to the practical training
demands of the 40 million Indonesians who have had little or no formal educa-
tion. Most of the agencies provide specialized training related to their own
fields of expertise and programs, and focus on a particular subgroup of the
out-of-school population. The Penmas directorate, however, has a mandate to
provide a broad range of basic vocational skill training and education to all
out-of-school youth and illiterate adults, numbering 17 million and 23 mil-
lion, respectively.



- 8 -
25.       Penmas was established in 1946.   Initially, it served an adult
clientele in a small number of villages. By 1972, Penmas was providing a wide
variety of courses in skill training, women's education, community development,
literacy and numeracy to an estimated 600,000 youths and adults annually. It
has been particularly concerned with reaching women who have comprised about
half of its clientele.   Staff and facilities were established throughout the
country, with major activities focused on large population concentrations
on Java and in North Sumatra and South Sulawesi. Training provided by Penmas
lends support for the Government's integrated subdistrict and village planning
programs and for ongoing community development activities including those in
the areas of public infrastructure (Inpres), health, nutrition, family planning,
irrigation and small-scale industry. Penmas has a staff of 6,500 (of whom
2,500 are professionals) who support village learning activities from 3,300
local offices. This staff has established a close working relationship with
local government officials who ensure coordination of Penmas activities
with other non-formal education and development programs at the local level.
Penmas has also developed an ability to organize villagers into groups willing
to meet regularly to pursue educational activities.
26.       The content of Penmas' programs has centered on four core learning
areas:
(a) vocational training in cottage industries, para-agricultural
skills and basic technological and home/community improvement
skills;
(b) family life education in health, hygiene, nutrition, childcare,
and family planning;
(c) community education, including leadership training and courses
in local government and community development techniques; and
(d) basic education in literacy and numeracy.
While vocational training activities have produced the most direct benefits
in the form of supplementary incomes or employment, these have been hampered
by insufficient funds and inadequate supply of consumable materials. The
majority of courses have been provided in the areas of family life and
basic education. The literacy courses are presently under review by the
Penmas Directorate in light of data showing high dropout and low literacy
retention rates.
27.       Penmas' main and most successful program delivery technique is
the village-based learning group. Penmas subdistrict fieldworkers identify
priority educational needs, organize learning groups and provide the groups
with instructors and materials. Fieldworkers liaise with these groups through
a designated group leader. A second delivery method used by Penmas is train-
ing provided at its subdistrict centers. The disadvantage of this method
is that participation is limited to those living in the immediate environs.



- 9 -
28.       The success of Penmas has been mixed as far as reaching the poorest
segments of the out-of-school population is concerned. Its overcentralized
administration has made it difficult to respond adequately to diverse local
conditions. Penmas has also found it difficult to identify and teach a range
of productive skills broad enough to permit mass participation in vocational
training courses. Penmas field staff have often lacked relevant experience
and technical support for its field staff has been particularly deficient in
the areas of training; materials development and supply; and program moni-
toring and evaluation. In the past, the Penmas budget was insufficient to
provide the necessary technical support. Furthermore, regular Government
budgeting procedures, based on central programming, were not flexible enough
to allow Penmas to respond effectively to local educational needs. Penmas
programs could be more effective if staff efforts were concentrated on
providing technical support for fieldworkers. Effectiveness of fieldwork has
also been impeded by lack of transport and delays caused by reorganization in
the filling of vacancies which amounted to a third of the total authorized
positions for fieldworkers.
Government Plans and Programs
29.       The Government has formulated a program to revitalize Penmas'
activities during the next few years focusing on expanding the number and
variety of vocational training courses. The core of the program would
be a reorganization and strengthening of the provincial offices of Penmas.
The present administrative and supervisory functions of these offices would
be expanded to include systematic technical support for staff training,
materials development and evaluation. In addition, the Government plans
to equip local field offices, to staff all fieldworker positions and to
establish a Basic Learning Fund for local education activities. To support
these activities the Penmas development budget will be increased substantially
in each of the next several years. At the national level, UNICEF is assisting
Penmas in the development of improved educational materials.
PART IV- - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed project was appraised- by a Bank mission which visited
Indonesia in November 1976. A report entitled "Indonesia - Appraisal of a
Non-formal Education Project" (No. 1606-IND, dated August 19, 1977) and based
on its findings is being distributed separately. Supplementary Project Data
are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 25
to 27, with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. W.P. Napitupulu, Director
General of Out-of-School Education, Youth and Sports, Department of
Education and Culture.
31.       The overall purpose of the proposed project is to stengthen the
capacity of Penmas to provide effective non-formal education programs in
seven of the country's most heavily populated provinces and thus gain
experience for further expansion to cover the whole country. The objectives
of the project are to:



- 10 -
(a)  strengthen the management and supervision capabilities of
Penmas;
(b)  establish a system of regular in-service training for Penmas
staff;
(c)  create institutions to develop, produce and distribute improved
non-formal education materials;
(d)  introduce a system of continuous evaluation of Penmas programs;
and
(e)  establish local funds to finance learning activities at the village
level.
32.       To achieve the above objectives, the project proposes the following
outlays /1 to finance:
(a)  civil works to renovate two existing Penmas training and devel-
opment centers and establish four new centers (proposed outlay
$2.3 million);
(b)  equipment and materials, office furniture and vehicles for Penmas
staff and fieldworkers (proposed outlay $6.1 million);
(c)  preparation of approximately 100 new pamphlets and printing of
11 million copies together with supporting instructional materials
and development of a system of program monitoring and evaluation
(proposed outlay $5.9 million);
(d)  regular in-service training for about 3,100 Penmas staff (proposed
outlay $3.2 million);
(e)  a fund in 148 districts to support basic learning programs devel-
oped with village participation (proposed outlay $0.8 million);
and
(f)  related technical assistance (proposed outlay $3.2 million).
33.       The core of the project is assistance to six provincial centers in
Jakarta, Bandung, Semerang, Surabaya, Medan, and Ujung Pandang for conducting
training programs for all provincial staff; developing, testing and producing
instructional materials; and undertaking program evaluation. Existing centers
in Jakarta and Bandung would be strengthened and the other centers would be
new. These areas were selected because existing Penmas programs and infra-
structure, including core staff and adequate transport facilities required to
implement the project, are already concentrated in them; they comprise 85% of
the population whose daily caloric intake is below a minimum adequate level
and require extensive programs for the development of non-farm skills since
/1 Outlays exclude contingencies.



there is limited potential for the creation of new agricultural employment
opportunities on Java. These centers would provide some 2,150 field workers
with four weeks of training per year, in two sessions. The 680 Penmas
district and subdistrict staff would receive two weeks of training per year.
Each Penmas center would run an annual training course for two weeks for its
own staff with assistance from staff of the directorate and other agencies.
Full-scale training -is expected to commence in July 1979. Prior to that time,
the two existing Penmas centers would be utilized for training the staff of
the four new centers. The Government would draw up annually a training
program satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter implement it (Section 3.13 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
34.       Training of provincial staff would focus on building a capacity for
effective training,-materials development and evaluation of provincial programs.
Training of district staff would be geared towards improving their capacity to
provide appropriate technical support to fieldworkers. Training of fieldworkers
would center on providing practical experience in such areas as the use and
testing of new instructional materials, assessing village educational needs
and establishing village learning groups, observing innovative learning
activities and developing activities for assistance from the Basic Learning
Fund. In addition, the project would provide assistance to the secondary
teacher training institutes (IKIPs) in the project provinces to improve their
departments of adult and community education.
35.       Materials Development.   The .project would assist the Penmas centers
to develop and produce instructional materials, including pamphlets, posters,
slides and tapes. Some of these materials would be based on curricula prepared
by Penmas with the help of UNICEF. Each Penmas center would produce materials
as required for its province. At the end of each of their semi-annual training
programs, Penmas fieldworkers would select and receive for use by their learning
groups approximately 1,500 pamphlets and supporting materials from among those
available. This process would maximize the relevance of materials and eliminate
the need for shipment. Financing would be provided under the project for costs
of developing, testing and producing the materials and for related technical
assistance on the basis of a program satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.08(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government has agreed that no instructional
materials would be mass produced under the project without adequate prior field
testing and subsequent revisions, as necessary (Section 3.08(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
36.       Support Materials.   The project would provide instructional equip-
ment to the district offices to enable them to provide technical support to
fieldworkers. District offices would loan simple audio-visual equipment
(including battery-operated slide projectors and cassette recorders) to field-
workers as needed for learning group activities. Financing would be provided
to equip 148 district and 48 subdistrict offices; to procure six mobile print-
ing units; to supply, operate and maintain the equipment; and, to procure the
basic supplies to be allocated to fieldworkers for learning group use.



- 12 -
Basic Learning Fund
37.       To reduce the rigidity of centralized budgetary procedures, the
project would provide a Basic Learning Fund which would be controlled at the
district level. The Fund would facilitate a flexible and immediate Penmas
response to village-specific learning needs and active local participation in
the formulation of learning programs. Grants from the Basic Learning Fund, up
to a maximum of Rp 100,000 ($240), would be allocated to finance priority
learning group activities for which no regular Penmas funds had been designated.
Activities to be supported from the Fund would be selected on the basis of such
criteria as the degree to which a proposed program would create productive
skills, generate income, enhance effectiveness of other local development
projects, and involve the least educated/poorest members of a community. Up to
50% of each activity would be financed from the Fund and the remainder from
various local sources. The Government and the Bank have agreed on criteria to
be applied to select non-formal education activities to be supported by the
Basic Learning Fund and procedures to replenish the Fund (Section 3.07(a] [i])
of the draft Loan Agreement). Since an important criterion relates to funding
learning activities to create productive skills and generate income for partici-
pants, the Government would ensure that Penmas would continue to provide train-
ing to develop productive skills for self-employment and cottage industries
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Learning Programs
38.       Under the project Penmas would continue to use the village-based
learning group as its principle mechanism for program delivery. The project
aims at providing non-formal education and training to about 41,000 learning
groups comprising 830,000 participants annually by 1982. Since 1972 Penmas
has reached about 600,000 clients annually mainly in the project provinces.
The targeted increase of nearly 30% would be achieved gradually over the
implementation period. In each project province priority would be attached
to serving the poorest and most disadvantaged segments of the out-of-school
population (both urban and rural), focusing on women, youths and young adults.
To facilitate mobility of Penmas staff the project would finance 225 four-
wheel vehicles and 1,880 motorcycles.
Evaluation
39.       The project would assist Penmas in developing and implementing an
evaluation system comprising two main components. The first would be a planning
and performance monitoring system managed by staff of the Penmas center; it
would focus on collecting and analyzing information related to the process of
implementing Penmas activities to be used to modify and improve Penmas opera-
tions. The Government would also conduct a second type of evaluation, a
mid-term review of the project, which it will submit to the Bank for comment
by October 31, 1981 (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
40.       Fellowships.  The proposed project includes about nine man-years of
domestic fellowships and 37 man-years of foreign fellowships for training



- 13 -
project personnel in areas such as management, materials development,
communications theory and printing. Domestic fellowships would be provided
to one person from each Penmas center to study materials design and printing
for six months at the Pusat Grafika Institute in Jakarta. Most fellowships
for study abroad would be for short-term apprenticeships or study tours,
whenever possible within the Asia region. Longer term formal training would
be provided to one person in the Penmas Directorate to study compunications
and advertising theory and to three persons from each of the six Secondary
Teacher Training Colleges (IKIPs) involved in the project to study non-formal
education curriculum development, training and evaluation. The criteria and
procedures for awarding fellowships would be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.07(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Specialist Services.   The proposed project includes 81 man-years
of domestic and about 24 man-years of foreign specialist services for the
Penmas Directorate and provincial centers to assist in staff training,
materials development, evaluation and management; for the Office of Educational
Research and Development in the Department of Education and Culture to assist
in the mid-term review of the project; and for the six project Secondary
Teacher Training Colleges (IKIPs) to assist in strengthening programs in adult
and community education to improve the pre-service training of non-formal
educators. The project also provides for the services of local consultant
architects and an independent auditor. The estimated cost of expatriate
specialists would be about $5,500 per month. The qualifications and experience
of consultants, as well as the terms and conditions of their employment, would
be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $33.1 million equiva-
lent, including physical contingencies of 10% on all items and price contin-
gencies on equipment and expatriate technical assistance of 8% in 1978 and
1979 and 7% thereafter and on other project costs of 12% in 1978, 10% in 1979,
9% in 1980 and 1981 and 8% in 1982 amounting to $11.7 million. The details
are shown in the Loan and Project Summary at the front of this report. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about $15 million, or 45% of the
total, which the proposed loan would finance; the remainder would be provided
by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       Because of the small size of contracts and the scattered nature of
the works involved, contracts for civil works, materials and furniture would
be awarded following local advertisement and competitive bidding in accordance
with Government regulations which are acceptable to the Bank. Indonesia has a
well developed construction industry and foreign firms not already established
in the country are not likely to bid. Foreign firms or joint ventures meeting
the requirements for doing business in Indonesia would be free to prequalify
and participate. Equipment and vehicle contracts of $50,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for procurement. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers



- 14 -
would be allowed a margin of preference of 15% or the existing customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imported items. Imports
made directly by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the project would
be exempt from customs duties and taxes. The six mobile micro units to print
local newsletters, which are obtainable only from one manufacturer, hence un-
suitable for international competitive bidding, would be procured directly from
the supplier in accordance with Part B of the Bank's Guidelines for procurement.
Equipment purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts of at
least $50,000 equivalent could be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following normal Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. To
accelerate initial project implementation, a maximum of five vehicles, costing
$50,000 equivalent or less would be procured through prudent shopping after
receiving at least three price quotations. Equipment, materials and furniture
which cannot be reasonably grouped to form contracts of at least $12,500
equivalent each, could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis of a
minimum of three price quotations, subject to an overall total of $300,000
equivalent. Prior Bank review would be required for all civil works contracts
of $200,000 equivalent or more and all equipment and furniture contracts of
$50,000 equivalent or more.
44.       The proposed loan of $15 million would be disbursed for:
(a) 30% of total expenditures for civil works, engineering and
architectural services, and furniture;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. price of imported equipment, materials and
vehicles; 95% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment and materials, and 65% of the price of imported but
locally procured equipment and materials (40% for vehicles
purchased locally);
(c) 50% of the total costs of local fellowships and staff training;
(d) 50% of the total cost of the Basic Learning Fund; and
(e) 100% of the cost of consultants' services and overseas fellowships.
Organization, Management and Project Implementation
45.       The following key functions would be assigned to each Penmas admin-
istrative level:
(a) The National Directorate would be responsible for policy devel-
opment, programming and national management of Penmas' activi-
ties, and for coordinating Penmas' programs with those of other
agencies.
(b) Provincial Centers would develop and produce learning materials,
provide in-service training for all staff within the province,
and implement an evaluation scheme for provincial programs.
(c) District Offices would provide on-the-job supervision and training
for fieldworkers, support fieldworkers with audio-visual equipment
and materials, and control disbursements from the Basic Learning
Fund. The subdistrict Penmas offices would support fieldworkers
with vocational equipment and specialist teachers.



- 15 -
(d) Fieldworkers would identify local learning needs, organize learn-
ing groups, train group leaders, and assist learning groups to
obtain funds, instructors and materials. They would also partic-
ipate in developing learning materials at the provincial centers
and would deliver materials produced by those centers.
(e) Village Learning Group Leaders would be responsible for sched-
uling and managing learning group activities.
Project Implementation
46.       The Penmas directorate within the Department of Education and Culture
would be responsible for project implementation. A Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) formed within the directorate in January 1977 includes a director,
deputy director, provincial sub-directors, an architect, a procurement
officer, a comptroller, a chief for technical assistance and specialists
in training, learning materials and evaluation. The Government would appoint
additional Penmas staff under a schedule satisfactory to the Bank and maintain
such staff to implement the project (Sections 3.06 and 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Procurement activities for civil works, equipment, materials,
furniture, advisory services and fellowships would be handled by the PIU. In
order to ensure adequate control and maintenance of equipment, the Government
would submit to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1978, and thereafter
implement, details of (a) a planning and performance monitoring system for
implementation of all project components and (b) an equipment inventory
control and maintenance system (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Implementation Period.   Physical implementation of the proposed
project would be completed by mid-1982. The Government has made good progress
in the initial stages of implementation with selection of PIU staff and sites
for the four new Penmas centers and with the appointment of consultant archi-
tects. Master equipment lists are being finalized. An inventory has been
compiled of non-formal education materials developed for use in Indonesia.
A decree relating to the reorganization of the provincial offices was issued.
Key staff have been selected for the provincial Penmas offices in Jakarta and
Bandung. Finally, the Government has created a working secretariat for the
National Technical Training Committee.
48.       Professional Services.   Design and supervision of civil works for
the six provincial centers would be carried out by qualified local consultant
architects acceptable to the Bank. The Government has appointed the consul-
tants and sketch plans have been drawn up and found acceptable to the Bank.
49.       Sites.  Sites for the four new Penmas centers have been selected,
adequate budgetary provisions for their purchase have been made and the acqui-
sition process has been initiated. The Government has agreed that it would
acquire title to each site six months before the scheduled start of construc-
tion at each site (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
50.       Despite the rapid expansion of formal education, nearly a third
(40 million) of Indonesia's population has had little or no formal schooling.



- 16 -
This group of out-of-school youth and illiterate adults comprises about half
of the population classified as the severely poor. The group is character-
ized by: high rates of unemployment and underemployment; low productivity
and income; poor nutrition, health and hygiene; high rates of birth and infant
mortality; and a narrow range of physical and mental skills. To provide
these out-of-school youths and illiterate adults an opportunity to improve
their standard of living, they must be taught practical skills and basic
knowledge. The proposed project would help to extend relevant learning
opportunities to this segment of the population, building on proven results
from experience in smaller programs of this nature.
51.       In strengthening Penmas, the project would provide vocational
training and basic education to 2.5 million Indonesians in seven provinces
between 1979 and 1982, increasing to one million persons annually thereafter.
The service thus provided would reach approximately 30% of the out-of-school
population over a 10 year period. In accordance with the emphasis the Govern-
ment attaches to improving the equity of educational opportunity, the priority
target groups to be served by the project would be the poorest segments of the
population, with special emphasis on women and out-of-school youths and young
adults. Some 85% of these persons would be rural inhabitants and the remaining
15% would be from urban areas.
52.       Near-term benefits expected from improved Penmas' vocational
training and basic education under the project would include:
(a) increased incomes and levels of employment for both men and women;
(b) better family health, nutrition and hygiene;
(c) improved community infrastructure; and
(d)  increased receptivity to, and effectiveness of, government ser-
vices and programs.
In accordance with priorities set under the Second Five-Year Development
Plan, expected long-term benefits would include progress towards equaliza-
tion of income distribution and a possible decline in the birth rate due
to a higher level of educational achievement by women.
53.       Risks.   The benefits expected from the project would depend mainly
on the competence and dedication of staff appointed to the provincial Penmas
centers. These individuals determine the quality of educational activities,
their relevance to learning needs and their ability to attract participants
from the priority learning group. The proposed project includes reasonable
provisions to minimize the risk of poor quality staff by providing special-
ized training and technical assistance. While misappropriation of proceeds
of the Basic Learning Fund may also be a risk, control at the district level,
provided by Penmas officers and representatives of the Department of Home
Affairs, in addition to regular control procedures required by the Depart-
ment of Finance, are considered sufficient to limit this risk. The varied
and changing needs of out-of-school youth and adults, and the innovative



- 17 -
character of the nonformal programs, make it likely that some programs may
fail. But continuous evaluation of the project is intended to identify and
eliminate unsuccessful programs at an early stage.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
August 19, 1977






ANNE   I
Page 1T
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                            INDONESIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1904.3                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     283.8                       1960      1970    ESTIMATE          BANGLADESH    INDIA          PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     70.0     110.0      180.0               90.0      110.0       230.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           95.4     116.3     132.1                70.8      547.6        36.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       50.0      61.0       69.0              496.0      167.0       123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       345.0     411.0      453.0             692.0       308.0       375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.0      45.9       42.9               50.3       41.0        44.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          25.4      20.6       16.9               22.9       19.0        13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       125.0 /a,b                              140.0                   80.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       47.5        ..      48.i               43.3        47.2        55.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.B/A     3.2        3.1                3.1        2.9         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.1       2.0        2.4                2.8LA      2.3         3.0
URBAN                                  ..        3.7/A     4.1                 ..        3.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          14.9       17.5/A    18.2                6.4        19.8       31.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.1 /&   44.0       43.9/b            46,4        41.6        45.6
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.3ja    53.5       53.6/_            51.0        55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.6       2.5        2. e              2*6         3.1         2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8/a      0.9       0.9                1.0         0.8        0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               A.4        ,.        1-3               i.6  A       I-iA       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     259.3 0 6786.2 A                  .^   14585.0       354.o
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        34600.0         ,,   44200.0 Z          22300.0   218000.0     12300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         75.0        ..       69.0/C             71.0       69.0        55.0oA
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           5.4        ..                           7. .                     0. 7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
K OF PRIVATE INCOME PEC'D BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             .          ..      337      f         16.7       25.0.
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..       52.0 /             42.3 /6    53.1 L
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        6.8                7.9 7      4.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..       17.3  T            19.6       13.1
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           48.0.                                   34.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          3.0         .10
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            413o0.0/o 26370.0    16870.0             7600.0  e  4890.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..    7630.0/d   7290.0/i          72030.0 he  5220.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1370.0 A  1640.0     1420.0             B120.0     1610.0       850.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         89.0      91.0       98.0                 ..       93.0       100.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              43.0      43.0         ..                 ..       53.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0      14.0         ..                 ..       16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..        ..         ..                  .          ,,        9.0
EDUCATION-
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       59.0      69.0      79.0                50.0 /g    68.0       108.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      6.0      12.0      l9.0                15.0          . .      48.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               1D.0       12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     20.0      29.0      32,0                 1.0        6.0 /       6.0 /
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                47.0      59.0       62:0 /               *-        33.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        ..        1.6/4               ..         .,         2.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..        ..          ..                ..          ..       76.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 .,         .         23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     *-         *          *                 *           *         7.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          7.0     114.0       49.0                6.0        21.0       45.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       2.0        2.0                1.0         1.0        8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           15.0      20.0       27.0               20.0       114.0      235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.3       0.5                 ..         0.3        2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 19
NOTES
Unless otherwia- noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate betwee
1971 and 1975.
I-Inldlng Went Irian.
ccThe Philippin.n has been n-lctad as an objectIve country for its geographical iolellriry and b.c.... of It. apparent advance.d niage of ecoceic
development.
INDONESIA       1960     Ia   -oclden Went Irlan;      lb  1962,     Ic  1951-56;     /d  1961-63,     /s   10 years aod over, ability to rod or write in
either Latio or non-Latin charactern.
1970     I   1961-71;     /b  1971;     Ic  1968 to 1970,     /d   inclodiogndwvn           /e  Total, boopital bed iocooplote.
MOST NKCICEST IISSATE      Ia  1970-75;     /b   1976;    /    1971;    /d   1968 to 1975,     /e  Mostly -ooployd workers seeking their
first Jvb;     /f   Incan  reciPinnts;     /I   Jncloding midwives      /6   1972;     /i  10 yenta and over,
ability to read   r write In either Latin or non-Latin characters,        j,j  Not comparble with 1970.
BANGLADESH      1970     /   The 1970-75 popo1ation growth rtet In abnormaly low doe to the ef.cta of the war of indapeodeocenad           -as   popolati-o
noemenr    acr..n the borders doting that periad.     P-e.etly, th.eaverage popolation growth rate Is estimated at 37.
par assntm     lb  Ratio of popolation woder 15 and 65 and aver to total labor force,          /c   1966-67;     /d  1967-68;
/e  Rngiatered, not all practicing In the -oatry;         If  Governnt hoapital esalssonsnly,                 La 7Approi-toat
enrollmant as percan.tage of population in 6-10 end 11-15 age graupa.
INDIA           1970    /a   Dria of popolation andar 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and ove             lb   1967-68;     /c  Inroding mIdwives;
/d 1967.
PHILIPPINES     1970     /   An p-eretage of onploynnet,       lb   Not incloding private vocational nchoo1n.
517, Jine 23, 1977
SDZPINXTIOW  OP SOCIA  ISsCATOeS
Land Area 15thc k821                                                                     Ppolation pa .om ion pero     - Popolati on divded by cnke.r of p-raticing
Total - Total nofc     aecaprinlig land area and Inad watara.                              mal and fonale gradoat    or.ee, 'trained' or "certified   n--e, and
carte .,-oa tra-n    -ai-ss    of a0iotr        rea cad t-porartly or Paie-                acailtary perenoel with trat.nio  or enperien-.
.esety for crops, pa torea, market k ktrohon gardea or to Ste fallow.                  PsPo1ation Per hoaPIta! bed - rPolsIoton dioided by n,eber of hoepito1 beds
a-ilable in pablic and private genral. and speclaiteed hospital and
1N0 per -Peit. (USS) - GNP per ca pita  atksat. te   -t-rsn  narkat prireo                 r_hbiliatltin   -   -oer;  neioeaors tg kh-. and setabliakhnot     for
caloolted by aaa- co     reo    etbhd oa World Da, Atll.a (1973-75 baate;                onatodia1 and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              per -apita spply of calorIes .   o f rCsrnt)        -tapoted fran snargy
eqoivaleni of neat fond auppliee avilabla to coon.try per capita pse day,
Pponlation and vial atatttic.                                                              availabls toPppites caprisa dsestic prodortion, bptptri   loan aeporta. ntd
Poenailo  fol-yer atlion  Aa  f Jly fint  f nt -vilabla, average             chsnaen in stock, net aoppiea -s1ld. animal feed, needs, qoasttnience:d
of .1two  -od-Y.sar satnta   ",ll         aod195 dta                                      in food sr_canstg aod lonee   In diartibotion. reqoirtont. wereenlsad
by tAO based an phynilgi-olal    . neda for no-na  -ciotty end health -onid-
Preolatio  denei~ft: - eec asar  6    Mid-year popolation per eqars kcilenctar             ering enoi-nta      tanperator, body osighta, aend,ann dietribtioron      of
(100 bectaea)tof tota    srea.                                                           POPolatton, and a.lloin  10% for -ate at bhcanhold    Ina1.
Peeclatton denaty -preare no of agirc. land - Canpoted an show          for              Per canita  pely of nerte (oram      ear day) - Protein content of per capit
agtoloallnd only.                                                                 net sopply of food par day; ne t sopply of fond Ia defIned aa above;      i-
onota for alS roatrine   entebliaked bY USDA to-oir R.....rob Servite-
vital eratastice                                                                           provide forannicnlb         ateo    60 gran  of total protein per day, and
Crode bIrth ,rae pear thooad. averaoe - Ann-aI Sloe birtha per tho...and of                SO2 ran  o  aimal and puma protoin, of whIch 1 gra-      ahocid be animal
old-year popolation; ten-year arlil"tic avrae         ening in 165 and 1970,             protein; these   tandorda are lowr than those of 75 gran   of total protein
s nd fiva-year an-rga endIng in 1975 for eon trcet e        tios 9e                       and 23 gr-n of animal protein          --anavrga for the ourld, propened by FAO
trde d.ach rate eer thojinand. averagSe - A-.oaI death. par thonaand of ntd-ya-           to the Third World Pond iSrey.
population; ten-year orith-tic averagne ending in 1 960 and 1970and floe-              Per canita -rotatecon      froa anima  an.d pols  - Orstein eupply of food
IYea  avsrage ending in 1975 for naa,t drecent estimata.                                  derired fr    animals and pulsee in gren  par day.
Infant_tnsriaity rats (Ithoc) - Ann.a deahs     f inf.tto coder one yar of age           Death rain (/thon) ages 1-4 - AcooaI d-ath  per ihoosand in age group 1-4
ipe  thko.and live birth..                                                               y-ar, to chIldre    In this age grop, soggeeted as an indicator of
Life nopeotancy at birthb (you) - Average .omber If yeara of lts. ranalng at                -aln.trttion.
bIrth; oaoalIly ft on-yea  averge. ending tn 1960, 19 70 and 1975 for develop-
tog o_oteriee                                                                          Ed-ctiob
Graerenrod-ctioo rate - Average nober of lion d-oghtsre a wann        ill bear           Adlsted enrollment rato      n    rma  echool - Enr-1imat of all  gee an Per-
in bar  onI rep-od-ctivo p-rlvd if she enperianos pra..ntocga-ap-ciftco                      ag   fpsnr      shool-age population, incloden children aged 6-11 yeara
fertilit  raiea; onoal11y efiv-year a-e-gea ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1075                hut adjoatod toe different 1engtha of primary edona.cton; for coore       ith
for deos,loptg coutriea.                                                                  -ni-raal edcation, an-o1lomt cay eeced 100. ajne       an   popiIa ar hboc1
'pooltion oro_d    rte (7.)_-total - Coopood   -ooa groth racas of nid-yaar                or ahor   th   ffca    school age.
popolation for 1950-60, 106-70 and 1970-75.                                            kdatnd enesi"loa      .t rilo-se.ondar, school - Coopated beshve, ancondary
IPopoltion groth rate (.       ra   - Cosputd 0th. growth rtal of total                    edoc..tin raqairee at leaai foar years of approved primary inatr-tion;
popla-ioc,; different dff.iti-io   of -rbac araa  nay offenot o  parbility of            providna gene.ral, ro..taIona  or tca..ber training iat-ootione for pupIls
data anag naatriea.                                                                      of 12 in 17 yeara of age; correepondence coora     ar  generally anclIoded.
Urban noewlation (7. of tata1) - Sati  of arben to total Popolation; diff.eret           Y.ara of achonlian   -iuded (flirnt and ancond la-1s) - Total years of
definitIons of orhenaraa mayaffact caparability of data        ..g .tounele              acheallng; at secondary laon, voctional iatrution nay he partially or
AR  r:~~~~~~t-  (per..rt)                                          V.:- ~~~~~taniesaly exclded.
Iacotore      pect)- Children (0-li ye-re), working-age (15-64 yeare),                    atina    enra1mn    (7 of eocondary) -Vocaioalin:locosild
an  etrd (65 yearn ad over) so percentages of mId-year pspoltbon                     tehnical, Indacta1    1 or hibe  Progrn  whic  opera te idependently ora
con doecod-ny rati-bi         ofppatcore15ad6                and ovr to choe               dnpatonevnt of asodary Innlotoa
of-i agd1     boohddltltrc                                                                              rat  C)-literate ad.lca (able t      read avd write) a  pn-
botnicde dndey ratio   Ratio of populoioc coder 15 avd 65 and over to                 cItg    o   oa   edot papolation sled 15 yn-n and over.
the Iobar force to ag.   roco If 15-64 years.
Pantly olannlneo-aoceecars    11 hcnliv   ..t ) -   oalieomhr of a-cpiora                  .. Inalg
of birth-_control devcee ordr a-aPice    of oationeI fanily planning prograPean                 prron(rn)-         Overge tneof pers ona per roon it occpied
n.inc    ocption                                                                          oooynlonl dwellIng      i Inrbonaa,dwellings roclodenco.-pernrseo
PIIl   ..annng-caera (7. of mariad w-nn) - Peccentago- of married wann     of            t-tr cr-a cod -noccPied part
chl-ern   ai115-Ak yoara) oho ca  birth-conrol-  device  to all earrld         Occoiddelnawtotnin                 ce    7)-Oopedcuetoa               elig
henones tonon go grop.itdoba ad-                                                                       roral. ithasa piphed  inid    oroci,ds piedwtioer fac    1int
E.pl,ll-.t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~spercetiage of all occpied dwellings
Totallabo  fero  Cihcoan) - fEonoicaIly active pernsoo  incloding armed              ectity       olvng.arrtspnrct of tetal deeIllnga in cean sod
forceeo, andnnplayed hot nec.ldiog hoceeina, stodenta, et       , definitions             oa    aea
invaiacosee         are not caparble.                                                 local dseello    cannerted to electrIcicy (t )  Conpoced asbhe for r-ra
Labor force in, arIcolitore (7.) -tAgriccitoraI labor force (In farmIng, foreatry,          dwellings enly.
hantig an    fishing) as prern   gfeof tora. lakebr force.
Unenel1  d (7. of labor farc)    U.- ployed.- ar  na Ily.defined as persons who           Conaptton
ar  bl an d nillieg to tabskaJob, outofejob on a       Iven day, r-jind oct          Raio recivers (per thoc eor) - All typra of receIvers fr rdio breadca..n
of a Job , ad se:eking wor  foapsnified ninian period net e..ceeding onn                 to general pob1ic per thoceand of pepolation, enclodes folic..n.d r-eivers
nab, my fltde       -oPari   bewe       cerIee doe to different definition                In counirina and in yeara when rng.tsractin of radio nets wa   in effect;
ef onnployed and eourn    of deta, e.g.,-oPIaynent office atocitica, a.-Pi.              data for r.eat yearn may not he canparabl     since east -ontri- abolIshed
e_r.Y., canpo1sory onoploynent narce                                                      licenatg.
Pesee.nger cars (Par thoc eon) - Pa..s.ngnr care canprise notar cars sea ting
Inrcon  diacribution - Percentage If private inoon  (both in -ab snd bind)                 less than eight parsun; eeciadea abh1la.c.a. hearses and elittar
rctned by rIchest 5%, rtcheat 207., pooret 207., and poorest 40% of house-              nehiia.l
holds.                                                                                 rletriotepy (kwh/yr per cspl - Astnaa cnoapriton of industria1, c ercia1,
publie  n  prvate e1ctrinitY in kilowatt hour     per capita,geral
Diatribation of land aesrshis_-Pnrre.tages of Sad       nnd by wealthtsat 1%                base.d o  redcindt,wtoiaieac                  o    esI       grtd  htl allo--
and poorest 107. of land sners                                                            ing for imparts and aeperta at electricIty.
Newspint (ba/yr Pear rap) - Per capita annal cons_ptita     in kilogram
goaitb and Notritlon                                                                        Patadfran donsaic production pine net imports ofIsar
PPesltion pear phyafian.  - Popolactan divided by nomber of practIcIngtdIf_pr.
pbyeictns qoalgoied iron a nedica1 achool at ontn-ity leval.
Eaat Asia 4 Pacific RegiceaI
Office



ANNEX I
Pave 20
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197S                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (S. constant prices)
US$ Mil        %                        1960 -65          1965 _70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices           28,146      100.0                         1.9               4.9               7.1
Gross Domestic Investment       6,891       24.5                         3.3              11.5              17.1
Gross National Saving           5,634       20.0                         5.8               5.1
Current Account Balance        -1,257    -   4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           4,738       16.8                         1.5               7.8               6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           5,533       19.7                        0.2               10.9              27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added 1/                Labor Force-/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mil     __                  Mil         % _                              2
Agriculture                     4,221      44.8               30.5      69.0                  138         65.0
Industry                        1,915      20.3                3.0       6.8                  638        300.0
Services                        3,279      34.9                8.3      18.8                  395        185.0
Unallocated                       -         -                  2.4        5.4
Total/Average
9,415     100.0                44.        o.o                 213        100o0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                           % of GDP
1976/77*       1975/76                  1975          1974
Current Receipts                    2,904          2,201                   18.1          17.0
Current Expenditure                 1.613          1.247                   10.2          10.2
Current Surplus                     1,291            954                    7.8           7.7
Capital Expenditures                2,070          1,425                   11.7           9.8
External Assistance                   784            492                    4.0           2.4
* Provisional estimates.
MNEY, CRMDIT and PRICES                   1971         1972        1973        1974         1975        1976
TBllion Rp outstanding end periodT 
Money and Quasi Money                      469          695          987       1,452       1,995       2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector               387          333         357          412       1,637       1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector              317          500         908        1,163       1,353       1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as    of GODP         12.8         15.2         14.6        14.8        16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966    100)    642          807       1,028        1,370       1,640       1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          2.6         25.7        27.4         33.3        19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                 ..         -14.0         7.2         15.4       297.3         7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                *-          57.7        81.6        28.1         16.3        24.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390   US$1.
2Y Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated5 consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Pace 21
TRADE PADM6TS AND CAPITAL FL40W
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1974     1975      1976                                                US $        /1  %
(M I Rons USS      Provisional
Exports:                       4351     4738      6033                Oil (net)                        1897      50.4
Oil (net)                    2169     2921      3650                Rubber                            416      11.0
Non oil                      2182     1817      2383                Timber                            602      16.0
Imports                       -4220    -5533     -6297                Palm oil                          132       3.5
Resource gap                  131    - 795     - 264                Tin                               138       3.7
Factor service:               - 210    - 462     - 781                Coffee                              99      2.6
Interest                    -  64    - 178     - 354
Investment income           - 146    - 284     - 427               All other commodities              483      12.8
Balance on Current Account    -79      -1257     -1045                    Total                        3767     100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       462      497       432             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664     2395      2365                                                        Us $ Mil
Amortization               -  80    - 322     - 435
Subtotal                     584     2073     1930                Public Debt, incl, guaranteed           10,140
Capital Grants                   62      ..        ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           - 126    -2250     - 205               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -214     -     46  -_375                                         I/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689    - 983       737             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)      1473      590      1494
Net Reserves    (end year)     1472      489      1226                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4      120       152
of which:  Petroleum          1      116       146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2169     2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING (June 30, 1977)     Million US$
IBRD)        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Thr$ou hJ1 1971                Since  August 1971               Outstanding & Disbursed             310.9       435.6
ThroghRp31 175                 Sinc     Auust197                Ubdisbursed                       1,001.6       125.7
Rp 1000   - US$2 67            US    1.00 - RU 415              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed     1,312.5       561.3
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 22
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan/                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal                                                     Undisbursed
Number    Year               Purpose                 Bank      IDA     Bank/IDA
Eleven credits closed                                        129.4        0.0
194       1970  Second Agricultural Estates                   17.0        0.4
195       1970  Second Irrigation Rehabilitation              18.5        0.4
220       1971  Third Irrigation Rehabilitation               14.5        0.5
246       1971  Seeds                                          7.5        1.5
259       1971  Tea                                           15.0        2.6
260       1971  Second Highway                                34.0        0.7
288       1972  Second Education                               6.3        0.6
289       1972  Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation              12.5        0.7
300       1972  Population                                    13.2        6.4
310       1972  Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)           10.0        0.7
318       1972  Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation              8.5        2.1
319       1972  Fourth Agricultural Estates                   11.0        4.1
334       1973  Second Electricity Distribution               40.0        3.2
355       1973  Beef Cattle Development                        3.6        1.5
358       1973  North Sumatra Smallholder Development         5.0        1.1
387       1973  Third Education                               13.5        8.1
388       1973  Third Highway                                 14.0        2.2
399       1973  West Java Thermal Power                       46.0        8.0
400       1973  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea             7.8        7.0
405       1973  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                 50.0        7.3
428       1974  Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                 16.5       10.8
436       1974  Private Development Finance Co. of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                           10.0       5.9
451       1974  Fourth Technical Assistance                    5.0        4.0
479       1974  Bali Tourism                                   16.0      14.1
480       1974  Fisheries Credit                                6.5       3.2
514       1975  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                30.0       28.6
1005      1974  Railway                              48.0                20.8
1040      1975  Jakarta Urban Development            25.0                 6.9
1049      1975  Five Cities Water Supply             14.5                12.1
1054      1975 Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                       50.0               11.9



ANNEX II
Page 23
US$ Million
Loan/                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal                                                      Undisbursed
Number    Year               Purpose                 Bank     IDA      Bank/IDA
1089      1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion        115.0                 7.0
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                    65.0                58.8
1127      1975   Fourth Power                        41.0                31.0
1139      1976   Fertilizer Distribution             68.0                17.9
1179      1976   Agricultural Research & Extension   21.5                21.4
1197      1976   National Resource Survey &
Mapping                           13.0                12.9
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                     130.0               126.8
1237      1976   Fourth Education                    37.0                36.0
1250      1976   Second Shipping                     54.0                54.0
1254      1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion          70.0                35.8
1259      1976   Fifth Power                         90.0                89.8
1267      1976   National Food Crops Extension       22.0                22.0
1268      1976   Seventh Irrigation                  33.0                30.5
1318      1977   Transmigration & Rural
Development                       30.0                29.7
1336      1977   Second Urban Development            52.5                45.4
1337      1977   Tanjung Priok Port                  32.0                29.9
1363      1977   Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                        15.0               15.0
1365      1977   Sixth Power                        116.0               116.0
1373      1977   Nutrition Development               13.0                13.0
1433      1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education    19.0                19.0
1434      1977   Eighth Irrigation                   63.0                63.0
1435      1977   Ninth Irrigation                    35.0                35.0
1437/a    1977   Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                    40.0                40.0
Total                                   1,312.5   561.3    1,127.3
of which has been repaid                  0.9     0.0
Total now outstanding                   1,311.6   561.3
Amount sold                        0.8
of which has been repaid         0.0      0.8     0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA /b         1,310.8   561.3
Total undisbursed                       1,001.6   125.7    1,127.3
/a Net yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 24
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                       US$ Million
Year                                                    Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement            10.6      2.5      13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles           2.5      0.8       3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles            2.0      0.5       2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable              2.8      0.4       3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles            4.5      1.5       6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel      Tourism            11.0       -       11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             5.4      0.7       6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles            2.0      0.3       2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics        0.9       -        0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devl. Fin. Co.      -       0.5       0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles           2.4      0.6       3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             5.0      1.5       6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              -       1.1       1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles           0.3       -        0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.4      0.1       1.5
Total                                          50.8     10.5      61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            23.5      1.7      25.2
Total held by IFC                              27.3      8.8      36.1
Undisbursed (including participants portion)    1.7      0.1       1.8



ANNEX II
Page 25
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit No. 194    Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has surpassed
the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the
rubber group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report
target for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and invest-
ment planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies
and shortage of funds for investment. The Minister of Agriculture has
recently made the necessary changes in management of the rubber group and
the Government is expected to review its financial policies, particularly
with regard to dividends.
Credit No. 195    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed first by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs.
Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The
rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and hydraulically
adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving with
the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than
previous levels. The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds
will finance all outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has
more than doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in
contract quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satis-
factory because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected
during appraisal.
Credit Nio. 220  Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:    US$14.5 Million Credit
of lovember 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by October 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 26
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds sub-
stantially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about
twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher
than those projected at appraisal 'enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Credit No. 246   Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Land at Sukamandi will be developed to its fullest extent (2,450 ha)
at an annual rate of 500 ha, and not limited to 1,600 ha as previously agreed.
Significant results for 1976/77, expressed as percentages of appraisal
estimates are: (a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of
rice seed - 2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed -
4,900 tons (42%). Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties,
only one seed multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at
appraisal, has been developed. Total area developed so far is 180 ha of a
total estimate of 500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production
continues to be high and it is not commercially viable even with increases in
production. Therefore, it will need continued financial support from the
Government.
Credit No. 259  Tea:    US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons. Inflation and additional construction and equipment costs
are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 260    Second Highway:  US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work
is completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978
has been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering
of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider
road design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway
betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding
standards for urban portions of the road.



ANNEX II
Page 27
Credit No. 288    Second Education:  US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is being implemented with minor delay. All civil works
are expected to be completed by September 1977. Twenty-six of the 27 project
institutions have been completed. Furniture and equipment are being delivered.
The expert services are virtually completed. Progress of the fellowship
program and teacher training is satisfactory. The Government has made
budgetary provisions to meet the cost overruns. Disbursements have improved.
Delayed implementation required postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months
to March 30, 1978.
Credit No. 289    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5. 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work will
be accomplished largely with Government funds. Completion of the project is
expected by September 1978.   The Government has, therefore, requested that the
Closing Date be postponed to December 31, 1978. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion.
Credit No. 300    Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is an
integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors recruited
annually and now covers about 15% of all married women in the reproductive
age group. Implementation of the civil works component is now on schedule;
because of the shift in strategy from static to mobile services, and because
of a large-scale Government-financed program to construct and rehabilitate
Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning centers, the Government has
requested a reduction in the number of centers to be constructed under the
project, to which IDA and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(as partners in jointly financing the project) have agreed.
Credit No. 310   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):    US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: August 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976, about
$700,000 remained undisbursed and the Closing Date was postponed to August 31,
1977 to allow time for BAPINDO to submit documents for reimbursement.



ANNEX II
Page 28
Credit No. 318   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:   US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: OcTtober 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide for several new projects of
ship rehabilitation. It is expected that the Credit will be fully disbursed
by the new Closing Date but that, due to sharply increased costs, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated.
Credit No. 319   Fourth Agricultural Estates:   US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be satisfactory, with plantings
of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,500 ha (originally 11,400 ha) and negotia-
tions are under way to finance the additional costs involved (about Rp 7.6 bil-
lion). Technical problems exist in processing and equipment maintenance but
management is taking steps to overcome them. Production, profitability and
costs of PNP X are satisfactory, while the capital structure is to be improved
during the course of the proposed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project.
PNP X is participating in the execution of both the NES I Project and the
Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 334    Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result the project is
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been,postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Credit No. 355   Beef Cattle Development:   US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which included major changes
in project scope and objectives, were approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 29
Credit No. 358   North Sumatera Smallholder Development:    US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's goals of oil palm and rubber plantings by smallholder
participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present rate of
progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have increased
from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by completion
date. However, higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and
palm oil and changes in project development techniques have more than compen-
sated the cost increases, and the project's return to the economy is likely
to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. No effective mechanism for the
credit-assisted portion of the project has yet been developed.
Credit No. 387   Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed and they are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1977 is well under way. Teaching
equipment has been procured and delivered. Project management has been streng-
thened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized project unit, and by
recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with
UNESCO. Teacher training is being conducted on a large scale but it has
proved difficult to keep the training program in phase with book deliveries.
Project management together with UNESCO specialists are working to overcome
this problem.
Credit No. 388   Third Highway:   US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have
been delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually
adverse climatic conditions. Construction costs are likely to exceed original
estimates by more than 100%, mainly due to sharply escalated prices. Most of
the feasibility and detailed design studies have been completed. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by
the Government.
Credit No. 399   West Java Thermal Power:   US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang were
about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. This, together
with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase in the total
project cost of more than 100%. Government will provide the additional funds



ANNEX II
Page 30
required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets in its financial
recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:   US$7.8 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Fewer than anticipated credit applications have necessitated scaling-
down project targets from 10,000 ha to about 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and
from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for estates tea. The demand by farmers for technical
assistance has been encouraging. Over 3,000 farmers have been instructed in
tea cultivation at village-level courses and at the Project Management Unit
(PMU) training center. The project spin-off has been excellent; about 2,000 ha
of tea were replanted or rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program
but still under the influence of the PMU. A marketing study indicates that
tea consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:   US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is on schedule and about 65% completed. The Joint
Sugar Projects Unit is efficiently supervising the procurement and installa-
tion of machinery and equipment. The two PTPs which are involved in the
rehabilitation process are both in a weak financial position and this
problem requires attention. Consultant services are gradually being phased
out as planned except for the sugar research station which still requires a
major input.
Credit No. 428   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha had been acquired as of May 1977 and
acquisition of another 31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of
developed land have been sold: to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capa-
city will be around 17,000 and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average
in both factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are
profitable. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be
20.6%, is significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is
due to the fact that developed land values are rising faster than the cost
of raw land and development.



ANNEX II
Page 31
Credit No. 436    Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
almost fully committed.
Credit No. 451    Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 479    Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure for the Nusa Dua tourism
estate, including the hotel training school is under way and is scheduled for
completion in December 1978. The completion of project components outside
the estate (roads) is scheduled for October 1979, about one year later than
planned at project appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has increased rapidly
due to a considerable number of charter flights coming to Bali. Promotional
efforts to encourage investors have been intensified, anticipating the opening
of a first hotel by early 1980 at the latest. IFC is considering participation
in financing the first hotel of about 400 rooms.
Credit No. 480    Fisheries Credit:  US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project on the whole has generally
been progressing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon
is nearing completion. Boat construction is under way and the contract for
equipment has been awarded. The quality of lending for fishpond development
needs to be improved; BRI has investigated this matter recently and and its
report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 514    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:  US$30 Mlillion Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract caused a delay of about 18 months in the project



ANNEX II
Page 32
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977, the
next four are scheduled for November 1977, and the last two for May 1978.
From a revision of bid prices for the first contract, the total cost of civil
works is now estimated to be about 35% higher than at the time of the last
review of project progress.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight traffic
continued to decline in 1976, due largely to poor service. Passenger traffic
has also declined. Better results are expected in the latter half of 1977,
after the arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations
improved with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the
railway deteriorated in 1976, due mainly to the declining traffic.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective,Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs are expected to be about 7%
above the appraisal estimate. The allocation of plots and core houses is
expected to begin in July. Some problems have arisen with regard to the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being
reviewed currently by the Government.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply:. US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed and the project has reached its construction
phase.  The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the
establishment and development of local water enterprises are proceeding
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 33
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20. 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the fourth quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31. 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December 1976,
one month ahead of schedule. As there was a slight delay in the completion
of the related gas project, the gas requirement of PUSRI III for start-up
during November 15, 1976 - January 7, 1977 was met by advancing the scheduled
shutdown of PUSRI II for annual maintenance by two months. Meanwhile, the
PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of PUSRI III is expected
to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems are
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
in Irrigation VIII to expedite this work. Critical review of the program for
benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded. The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed in early 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 34
Loan No. 1139  Fertilizer Distribution:   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three-ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$30 million were realized in the original project. Procurement of an
additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of fertilizer
output beyond that anticipated at appraisal was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way and is likely
to be completed successfully by the revised Closing Date, postponed by one
year.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation which at time of supervision in February 1977
was about one year behind schedule has now speeded up. The contract for
research services has been signed and the key members of the consultants
team are now in position. The executive architects were appointed in
April 1977 and schematic designs for research centers will be ready for
Bank approval in September 1977.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0 Million
Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is lagging slightly behind original appraisal schedules
in the areas of construction of facilities, procurement of equipment, and
aerial photography, chiefly for reasons beyond the control of the project
agency, BAKOSURTANAL. Construction is well under way at the Cibinong site.
Bids for the first large package of printing, cartographic, and aerial
photography processing equipment are currently being evaluated. Aerial photo-
graphy and remote sensor imagery was tendered in June 1977. Training
programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project are
progressing well.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Contracts have been signed or awarded for the construction of the
first package of roads totaling 585 km and for nine consultancy assignments;
bidding has also been completed for the second package of roads. Progress is
about six to nine months behind the initial project implementa-
tion schedule, mainly due to the unforeseen bunching of many activities



ANNEX II
Page 35
(negotiations for the consultancy assignments, prequalification of contrac-
tors, tendering, etc.) and a general shortage of staff to deal with the
rapidly increasing work load.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially an eight-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance. However, since January 1977, no further delays occurred
and good progress is being made in implementation. Designs for all three
subprojects have been prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most
sites have been acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been pre-
qualified. Tenders for construction of 14 of 24 project institutions will be
called in the next six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of
preparation. Eleven additional technical assistance specialists assumed
their posts over the last six months and the technical assistance program is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has slowed
project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of the state
shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioration could
cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is aware of this potential problem and is considering steps to deal with it.
The project is being closely followed.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about four months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-October 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way.



ANNEX II
Page 36
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction and procurement programs for the 1977 and 1978 Indonesian
fiscal years are now well under way and there are good possibilities that they
will be completed ahead of schedule. The new extension methods have already
been adopted in all provinces, but on a limited scale pending the recruitment
and training of staff, procurement of vehicles, and construction of buildings.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the prequalification for
contractors and consultants and the project is ahead of schedule in the North
Sadang area, in the mapping program and in preparation of the construction
schedule for tertiary development.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21. 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The first village has been constructed, and the first settlers moved
from Java in October 1976. Development of second years program is now under-
way, but may be slightly behind schedule.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Progress is being made in developing Govern-
ment capabilities in undertaking a nationwide kampung improvement program in
the future.
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1976 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, and petroleum products exceeded forecasts
by 20%. Technical difficulties have delayed the award of the first construc-
tion contract. A mission is in the field to review the problems.



ANNEX II
Page 37
Loan No. 1363 Second PDFCI Prolect: US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 21, 1977.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power Project:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on June 6, 1977.
Loan No. 1373  Nutrition Development Project:   US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14. 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on March 31, 1977.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training Project:  US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1435  Ninth Irrigation Project:   US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977,
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective in September 1977.



ANNEX III
INDONESIA                        Page 38
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government
(c) First presented to the Bank: June 1976
(d) First mission to consider project: June 1976
(e) Departure of Appraisal mission: November 1976
(f) Planning Implementation mission: March 1977
(g) Completion of negotiations: July 27, 1977
(h) Planned effectiveness: mid-December 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Resident Staff in Jakarta will assist the Government in early
implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will draw up annually a training program satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 33).
(b) Instructional materials developed under the project will be ade-
quately field tested before being mass produced (para. 35).
(c) Penmas will continue to provide training to develop productive
skills for self-employment and cottage industries (para. 37);
(d) The results of a mid-term evaluation of the project will be sub-
mitted to the Bank for comment by October 31, 1981 (para. 39).
(e) The criteria and procedures for awarding fellowships will be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 40).
(f) By December 31, 1978 the Government will submit to the Bank for
review, details of: a project planning and performance monitoring
system and an equipment inventory control and maintenance system
(para. 46).
(g) Government will acquire land title to each site six months before
the scheduled start of construction at each site (para. 49).






14~~~~~
-,   C-,--,-  A  21 2'
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aN S. iS
~~~~~~~~~~~     m a
t ~ ~~~~~ >,       rl s2
>   *  >>t   >   9g   a o  a   \  tt /~~~~~~~> 0~,
t ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ QQ  C  o 
G  T, O
m  a m              WJt ~ iOc a Mf 
33,  Oa 8  Z
PA P UA  N EW  G U INEA om



