Report No. 1606b-IND
Indonesia
Appraisal of a Non-Formal Education Project
August 19, 1977
Education Projects Division                                                             FLE   COPY
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =         Rp 415
Rp 1            =         US$0.0024
Rp 1 million   =          US$2,410
Rp 1 billion   =          US$2,410,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY
Balai Penmas   -    Training, Materials Development and Evaluation Centers,
Penmas
BP3K           -    Office of Educational Research and Development, DEC
Bupati         -    District Representative of the Department of Home Affairs
Butsi          -    National Development Volunteer Service
DEC             -    Department of Education and Culture
IKIP           -    Secondary Teacher Training College
Kabupaten       -    Administrative District
Kecamaten      -    Administrative Subdistrict
LAN             -    Institute of Public Administration
LSD             -    Village Development Council
NTCC           -    National Technical Coordinating Committee (for Non-Formal
Education)
Pakets A,
B and C      -    Basic Education Curriculum Guidelines, Penmas
PD             -    Village Development
Penmas         -    Directorate of Out-of-School Education, DEC
PGI            -    Pusat Grafika Indonesia (National Institute of Graphic
Arts)
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
PLPM           -    Education Center, Penmas
Pramuka        -    Scouting Movement
Unicef          -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ITDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .  .i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... . . .    . .
II.   THlE SETTING .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
III.   NON-FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING  . . . . . . . . . . .    4
IV.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . .      .        . . .     11
V.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . .   21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
APPENDICES
I.  World Bank Group Assistance in Education . . . . . . . .    29
II.   The Non-Formal Education and Training System . . . . . .    33
III.   Penmas Administrative Functions by Level . . . . . . . .   39
IV.   Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
V.   Schedule of Appointment of Staff . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
VI.   Proposed Penmas Learning and Materials Development
Program    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   46
VII.   Criteria to be Applied to Select Projects for Support
from the Basic Learning Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
VIII.   Criteria and Procedure for Award of Fellowships  . . . .   50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
2.  Expenditure for Formal and Non-Formal Education . . . . . . .   55
3.  Penmas Education Activities   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   58
4.  Annual Schedule of Project Training . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
5.  Schedule of Project M4aterials Development and
Production    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  60
6.  Project Target Clientele (1982) .............. .   62
7.  Summary of Project Costs .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63
8.  Project Contingencies by Category . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
9.   Forecast of Project Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
10.  Project Implementation Schedule . . . .      . . . . . . . . . . .   66
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Penmas Directorate
2.  Proposed Organization of Penmas Provincial, District
and Subdistrict Offices
3.  Project Implementation Unit
M,AP
Location of Project Institutions



INDONESIA
Basic Data 1/
General                                                           Amount
Area                                                         1,905,000 km2
Population:
Total (Bank est. 1975)                                  135 million
Average Annual Growth Rate (1970-75)                      2.2% p.a.
Density (Bank est. 1975)                                 71 per km2
By Age Group (Govt. est. 1975)
7-12                                             22.3 million
13-18                                             18.4 million
18 and above                                      65.4 million
Out-of-School Youth (Govt. est. 1975)
Ages 7-12 (primary age group)                                 3.3 million
as % relevant age group                                 15%
Ages 13-18 (secondary age group)                             14.0 million
as % relevant age group                                 76%
Illiteracy (Bank est. 1975)
Total No. of Illiterates (age 10+)                           54 million
as % total population                                   40%
Total No. of Illiterates (age 18+)                           23 million
as % total population 18 years or older                 35%
Department of Education and Culture, Non-Formal
Education and Training (Govt. est. 1972)
Total Enrollment                                             600,000
Total No. of Instructors (full- and part-time)                69,000
Finance (Bank est. 1976)
GNP/Capita                                                   US$220 p.a.
Public Education Expend. as % of GNP                              3.9%
% of Public Education Expend. Devoted to
Education                                                   11 %
% of Public Education Budget Devoted to
Department of Education and Culture
Non-Formal Education                                         1 %
1/   See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a non-formal education project
in Indonesia, for which a loan of US$15 million is proposed. Since 1970,
Indonesia has received three IDA credits and two Bank loans for education.
The first credit financed technical training workshops and has been satis-
factorily completed. The second project supports middle level agricultural
training. The third is designed to improve primary education by the produc-
tion and distribution of textbooks. The fourth addresses technical/vocational
education and civil service training. The fifth project, just underway, aims
to raise the quality of education through improved teacher training.
ii.       Although Indonesia's school system is growing rapidly, there are
currently 17 million youths aged 7-18 not attending school and another 23
million illiterate adults. Under the Second Five-Year plan (1974-79), the
Government has emphasized the need to reduce inequities in the provision of
opportunities for education and training. The plan supports the expansion
and improvement of non-formal education as a means to prepare out-of-school
youth and young adults to participate in the process of national development.
iii.      Rates of unemployment and underemployment in rural (agricultural)
areas and urban areas are high. An estimated 60% of the population lives
under conditions of severe poverty. The Government attaches priority to
providing these persons with training in productive skills and to improving
their standard of living. Penmas, the directorate for out-of-school education
of the Department of Education and Culture, is responsible for providing such
training. Penmas training is designed to impart practical skills to be used
to supplement incomes; improve family health; create community infrastruc-
ture; foster awareness of available government services; and create recep-
tivity to development programs.
iv.       Penmas' strengths include 30 years of experience in the field of
non-formal education and a nationwide infrastructure. Penmas has demonstrated
an ability to organize villagers into learning groups and to work closely with
local levels of government to ensure coordination among development activities.
Despite these strengths, Penmas' effectiveness suffers from overly centralized
programming and budgeting; from inadequate provisions for materials development
and supply, and for staff training; and from the absence of systematic feedback
and evaluation. The proposed project is designed to address these problems in
seven provinces. The overall purpose of the project is to strengthen the
capacity of Penmas to provide effective skill training activities at the
village level. The project would:



A-2
- ii -
(a) strengthen the management and supervision capabilities
of Penmas;
(b) establish a program for regular in-service training
for Penmas' staff;
(c) create institutions to develop, manufacture and
distribute improved learning materials;
(d) introduce continuous evaluation of Penmas programs;
and
(e) establish local learning funds to finance
village-level learning activities.
v.        In support of the above objectives, the project would finance:
(a) civil works to renovate two existing, and establish
four new, Penmas training and development centers
(Balai Penmas);
(b) equipment and supplies, office furniture and vehicles for
the national Penmas directorate, the six Balai Penmas,
148 district offices, 48 educational centers (PLPMs)
and about 1,900 fieldworkers in seven provinces;
(c) annual in-service training for 3,100 Penmas staff;
(d) development of approximately 100 titles and manufacture
of 11 million pamphlets and supporting non-formal in-
structional materials;
(e) program monitoring and evaluation;
(f) a basic education learning fund in 148 districts to sup-
port educational programs developed and initiated with
village participation; and
(g) related technical assistance.
vi.       The Penmas directorate would be responsible for project administra-
tion, financial control, procurement and liaison with the Bank. The Balai
Penmas would be responsible for materials development, training and evaluation.
Before negotiations the Minister of the Department of Education and Culture
had appointed key implementation staff in the Penmas directorate and the two
existing Balai Penmas.



- iii -
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$33.1 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange component represents 45% of total project
costs, or US$15.0 million, which would be financed by the proposed loan.
Physical implementation would be completed in four and a half years. Disburse-
ments would be made against: (a) 30% of total expenditures for civil works,
engineering and architectural services, and furniture; (b) 100% of c.i.f. price
of imported equipment, materials and vehicles, 95% of ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured items and 65% of the cost of imported but locally procured
items; (c) 50% of costs of local fellowships and staff training; (d) 50% of
expenditures for the basic learning fund; and (e) 100% of the cost of consul-
tants' services and overseas fellowships.
viii.      Design and supervision of the civil works for the six Balai Penmas
would be carried out by consultant architects acceptable to the Bank. Con-
tracts for civil works, materials and furniture would be awarded following
local advertisement and competitive bidding in accordance with Government
regulations. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate. Equipment and
vehicle contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding with domestic manufacturers being
allowed, for bid comparison purposes, a margin of preference of 15% of the
c.i.f. costs or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment and
vehicle purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts each
costing at least US$50,000 equivalent could be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding, and equipment, materials and furniture contracts not
exceeding US$12,500 equivalent each, through prudent shopping subject to an
aggregate ceiling of US$300,000.
ix.       The proposed project accords with the Government's objective to
improve the equity of educational opportunity. It would provide vocational
training and basic education to 2.5 million Indonesians by 1982, increasing
to one million persons annually thereafter. Under the project, particular
emphasis would be placed on reaching women and out-of-school youths and young
adults. The project would assist Penmas to improve the relevance of its
programs and learning materials to the educational needs of village-level
users. Expected end-user benefits would include increased incomes and levels
of employment, improved community health and infrastructure, and increased
effectiveness of government programs. Continuous evaluation of programs would
determine the impact of successful Penmas activities and would identify and
eliminate unsuccessful activities at an early stage.
x.        Subject to the conditions outlined in Chapter VII, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of $15 million equivalent
to the Government of Indonesia with a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace period.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Indonesia has received three IDA credits and two Bank loans for
education projects (Appendix I). Credit 219-IND, signed in 1970, provided
US$4.6 million to finance five centralized workshops to be utilized to
strengthen practical instruction at 14 satellite senior technical schools.
The project was satisfactorily implemented and operations have been underway
since mid-1975. The second credit (Credit 288-IND, signed in 1972) provides
US$6.3 million to upgrade middle level agricultural training. Implementation
is about a year behind schedule, owing to initial delays in appointment of
architectural consultants and provision of Government counterpart funds.
The third credit (Credit 387-IND, signed in 1973) provides US$13.5 million
to improve primary education through the testing, production and distri-
bution of 138 million textbooks. This complex project is largely on sche-
dule and problems experienced with the quality of textbooks and management
are being addressed by the Government. The fourth project (Loan 1237-IND,
signed in 1976) provides a loan of US$37.0 million for technical teacher
training, vocational training centers, mobile training units and civil ser-
vice training. Initial implementation is satisfactory and disbursements are
on schedule. The fifth project (Loan 1433-IND, signed in June of 1977) pro-
vides US$19.0 million to raise the quality of primary and secondary education
by improving primary and secondary teacher training.
1.02      In 1973, the Bank undertook an Education Sector Survey 1/ to
evaluate the results of the Government's comprehensive National Assessment
Study on Education and to develop a phased education investment program
suitable for external financing. The Sector Survey assisted the Government
to identify a framework of four interrelated objectives to guide Bank Group
investments in education. These were to: (1) meet specific manpower needs;
(2) raise educational quality; (3) improve training in public administration;
and (4) create new educational opportunities. The fourth and fifth education
projects address the first three objectives; the proposed sixth education
project in non-formal education addresses the fourth objective.
1.03      This report presents the findings of a mission 2/ which visited
Indonesia during November/December 1976 to appraise a non-formal education
1/   IBRD Report No. 443a-IND, Indonesia:  Sector Survey Report; February 5,
1975.
2/   Messrs. A.H. ter Weele (mission leader and educational planner) and
J.R. Bumgarner (project implementation specialist), Mrs. E. Levy
Schreiber (economist), and Messrs. N. Colletta (consultant in non-
formal education) and R. Makharita (consultant in organization and
management).



- 2 -
project. The project would expand and raise the quality of non-formal edu-
cation activities under the jursidiction of Penmas /1, a directorate of the
Department of Education and Culture (DEC), in order to improve education and
training opportunities for low-income, out-of-school youth and adults. The
project was formulated by the Government in a pre-investment study financed by
a Bank technical assistance credit (Credit 451-TA) and completed in September
1975. A loan request was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
the IBRD in June 1976. During appraisal, agreement was reached to reorganize
Penmas to strengthen its effectiveness, to delete construction of district and
subdistrict training centers which analysis showed to be superfluous, and to
increase from three to seven the number of provinces to be served by the
project. A planning implementation mission visited Indonesia in March 1977
to review details of project implementation.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Indonesia's main economic problem lies in the uneven distribution
of population, arable land and other productive resources throughout the
more than 3,000 islands that constitute the republic. Spread among 26 pro-
vinces, the population is characterized by marked ethnic, cultural and
linguistic differences. Geographic dispersion and socio-cultural diversity
pose considerable difficulties for administering public services, including
education. The Central Government is addressing these problems by decen-
tralizing executive powers to the provincial level.
2.02      The population, currently 135 million and growing at a rate of
2.2% per annum, is expected to exceed 225 million by the beginning of the
21st century. One half of the total would be under 20 years of age. Two-
thirds of the present population is concentrated on Java, one of the most
densely2populated areas in th! world (population density averages 625 per-
sons/km and reaches 2,000/km in intensively cultivated portions of the
island). About 80% of the total population is rural and 60% is engaged in
agriculture. Cultivation on the core islands of Bali, Madura and particularly
Java is intensive and further expansion will be limited. Since migration to
the other islands, encouraged by the Government, cannot be more than a partial
solution to excessive pressure on the land, vigorous non-agricultural develop-
ment is imperative. An essential condition for the restructuring of the eco-
nomy would be the adequate development of human resources focussed on training
in productive skills.
2.03      Since 1969 the economy has grown at about 7% per annum.  Average
GNP per capita increased by 17% in real terms between 1970 and 1975 and
reached about US$220 in 1976. The main benefits of this growth have accrued
to the 10% of the population supported by income from the modern sector of
/1   Penmas is an Indonesian acronym which means "Community E7ducation".



-3-
the economy (larger scale and/or more capital intensive economic activities)
which produces 47% of Indonesia's domestic gross value added (GVA). Rela-
tively fewer benefits have accrued to the 90% of the population supported
by the traditional sector (small scale industry, retail trade, personal and
community services, and agriculture) which produces 53% of GVA. H-1ence,
despite recent economic gains, poverty is still endemic in Indonesia. An
estimated 60% of the population (70% on Java and 40% on the other islands)
have a daily calorie intake level below a minimum adequate level. Most of
the population still suffers from poor health, lack of sanitation, over-
crowding, rapid population growth (2.2% p.a.), and a high (40%) rate of
illiteracy. Ignorance of basic concepts of hygiene, family planning and
nutrition compounds the problems created by poverty.
2.04      Between 1961 and 1971 the labor force grew by 1.5% per annum to
reach 40.1 million and employment increased by 1.8% per annum to reach 39.2
million. Of growing concern is the high level of unemployment and under-
employment, estimated at 10 million persons (20-25% of the labor force).
Nearly two-thirds of the unemployed and underemployed are under 25 years
of age and have received little or no education. Their numbers are dis-
proportionately high in rural areas, among women and in lower income groups.
2.05      Capital-intensive industry is expected to create 70,000 new jobs
per year in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Total modern sector employment
growth during this period is expected to keep pace with, but not exceed,
annual increments to the labor force. New agricultural employment on the
core islands will be limited. Thus, it will be impossible to raise the living
standards of the bulk of the unemployed and underemployed by creating new jobs
in the modern sector or in agriculture (especially on Java). Rather, it will
be necessary to expand opportunities for self-employment to supplement farm
incomes. Out-of-school education focussing on skills training related to
cottage industries, home crafts, primary processing of agricultural produce
and other non-farm rural endeavors would be the vehicle for providing such
opportunities.
Development Strategy
2.06      The overriding objective of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1974-1979,
is to raise the standard of living of the Indonesian population. The Plan
aims to increase employment opportunities and to achieve a more equitable
distribution of incomes. It implies a shift away from agriculture towards
modern and traditional manufacturing. IJnder the Plan, the Government has
also emphasized the need to reduce inequities in the provision of opportuni-
ties for education and training. It supports the expansion and improvement
of non-formal education as a means to prepare out of school youth and young
adults to contribute to, and participate in, the process of national
development. Such non-formal education should impart non-farm skills (para.
2.05) and practical knowledge in the areas of health, nutrition, sanitation
and family planning (para. 2.03).



-4-
III. NON-FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Overview
3.01      Penmas is the directorate of the DEC responsible for education
services for 17 million out-of-school youths and 23 million illiterate
adults. The chief characteristics of Penmas are:
(a)  a history of 30 years of involvement in non-formal edu-
cation and a nationwide infrastructure including a
staff of 6,500 who support village learning activities
from 3,300 local offices;
(b)  a close working relationship with local Government officials
which ensures coordination of Penmas activities with other
development programs at the local level; and
(c)  an ability to organize villagers into groups willing to
meet regularly to pursue educational activities.
3.02      Despite these strengths, Penmas still has the following key
weaknesses:
(a)  inadequate provisions for materials development and
supply, training of non-formal educators, program
monitoring and evaluation, and mobility of staff; and
(b)  overly centralized programming and budgeting with an
inability to respond flexibly to local learning needs,
in particular to the needs of the poorest segments of
the population.
Management of Non-Formal Education
3.03      Presidential Decree No. 34 of 1972 assigns overall authority for
education and training, including non-formal education, to the DEC. The same
decree divides operational responsibility for Government education programs
among the DEC (responsible for general and vocational education), the Depart-
ment of Manpower (responsible for specialized and technical training) and the
Institute of Public Administration (LAN-responsible for educating and training
government personnel). The decree authorizes the DEC to define the functional
working relationships of the three agencies, and to regulate education and
training programs of all other government and non-government institutions.
3.04      Since independence the Government of Indonesia has encouraged and
supported the development of non-formal education programs to complement
the formal education system. At present, several Government agencies provide
out-of-school education and training (Appendix II). Chief among them is
Penmas, located within the Directorate General for Out-of-School Education,
Youth and Sports in the DEC. Others include the extension directorates of



- 5 -
the Departments of Social Affairs, Manpower, Home Affairs and Agriculture.
Non-formal education is also supported by semi-autonomous agencies, including
Butsi (the National Development Volunteer Service) and Pramuka (the Scouting
Mlovement), and by private (non-profit and commercial) organizations.
3.05      The involvement of many agencies in non-formal education derives
from the inability of any single agency to cater to the range of practical
training demands of the 40 million Indonesians who have had little or no
access to the formal education system. MIost of the agencies provide spe-
cialized training related to their own fields of expertise and programs, and
focus on a particular subgroup of the out-of-school population: the Depart-
ment of Social Affairs lends assistance to children from broken homes; the
Department of Hanpower concentrates its prime effort on upgrading private
(modern) sector skilled laborers; the Department of Home Affairs trains local
government officials in public administration; and the Department of Agricul-
ture introduces improved agricultural production techniques to farmers. In
accordance with the DEC's mandate to provide general education, Penmas is
assigned overall responsibility to provide a broad range of basic vocational
skills training and education to all out-of-school youths and illiterate
adults. Penmas' activities in vocational, community, women's and basic
education (literacy) directly or indirectly support the more specialized
programs and training provided by the other agencies (e.g., the Government's
integrated subdistrict and village planning programs, the UDKP and PD, res-
pectively; and ongoing community development activities in the areas of public
infrastructure, health, irrigation, nutrition, family planning and small scale
industry).
3.06      The existing system of non-formal education and training has
developed in the absence of a central coordinating mechanism. In recogni-
tion of the need for such a mechanism, the Government created a National
Technical Coordinating Committee (NTCC) in 1975. The NTCC is responsible
for developing and implementing a national policy for non-formal education
and training. It is chaired by the Director General for Out-of-School
Education, Youth and Sports, and comprises representatives of government
and private agencies which provide non-formal education. A secretariat
to the NTCC, chaired by the director of Penmas, was appointed in early 1977
to increase its effectiveness. At the local levels (provincial, district,
subdistrict and village) coordination of non-formal education activities
with each other and with government development programs is achieved through
the authority of local representatives of the Department of Home Affairs.
Financing lion-Formal Education
3.07      The proportion of total (public and private) expenditure devoted
to education (formal and non-formal) has increased from about 2% of GNP
in 1969 to about 4% in 1975/76. The most important source of educational
financing is the Central Government:  about 11% of its budget was allocated
to education expenditure in 1975/76.  About 47% of the total, or US$342 mil-
lion equivalent, was allocated to the DEC and 53% to education programs of
other departments (Annex 2).  In that year Penmas expenditure amounted to
US$1.9 million, about one-half of one percent of the DEC budget.



-6-
3.08      Financing of non-formal education programs has been inadequate.
Non-formal education programs generally, and Penmas programs specifically,
are underfinanced. The Penmas expenditure of US$1.9 million in 1975/76 is
equivalent to about US$0.05 per person in the target population. The Govern-
ment increased the Penmas budget by 41% per annum between 1974/75 and 1976/77
and plans similar increases through 1982. In addition, regular budget proce-
dures are inappropriate for Penmas' non-formal education programs. Whereas
these programs should comprise unique educational activities derived from needs
specific to each village, the centralized budget process only permits funding
of a fixed number and type of courses assumed to be nationally relevant. To
permit Penmas to support educational activities designed to address specific
local needs and conditions, the Government has decided to establish a basic
education learning fund. The fund would be available at the district (kabupaten)
level to supplement local resources in support of village learning activities.
The fund is expected to provide the procedural flexibility necessary to operate
a non-formal education program responsive to local needs.
Penmas
3.09      When established in 1946, Penmas was charged with assessing com-
munity learning needs and providing relevant training in community development
techniques. Initially, Penmas served a mainly adult clientele in a small
number of villages. By 1972, Penmas was providing a wide variety of courses
in skill training, women's education, community development, literacy and
numeracy to an estimated 600,000 youths and adults annually (Annex 3). Staff
and facilities were established throughout the country, with major activities
focussed on large population concentrations on Java and in North Sumatra and
South Sulawesi.
3.10      Organization and Staffing.  Prior to 1975 the Penmas directorate
was located vwithin the Directorate General for Youth and Sports. In accord-
ance with priority attached to expanding non-formal education under the Second
Five-Year Plan, a new Directorate General for Out-of-School Education, Youth
and Sports was created during a 1975 reorganization of the DEC. The national
Penmas directorate is organized along program lines (e.g., vocational training,
women's education, basic education) (Chart 1). Since programs are delivered as
integrated educational activities, the DEC is considering restructuring the
directorate to consolidate such functions as curriculum and staff development,
now replicated within each program area. The responsibilities for programmina
and budgeting Penmas activities, and for developing and manufacturing learning
materials, are assigned to the national directorate. Provincial and district
Penmas offices are organized and staffed to provide administrative control
for Penmas activities.  The chief drar:backs of Penmas' present structure and
functions are an overcentralization of materials development, an accompanying
inability to respond to diverse linguistic and socio-cultural conditions,
and an absence of technical support for subdistrict (kecamaten) fieldworkers.
The Government plans to broaden the responsibilities of the provincial and
district offices to include systematic technical support for fieldworkers
in the areas of materials development, training and program evaulation. Such
modifications would improve the relevance of learning activities and materials
to local conditions and facilitate coordination and feedback among Penmas staff.



3.11      As a result of personnel transfers after the 1975 DEC reorganiza-
tion, Penmas' staff was reduced from 11,000 to 6,500. Its professional staff
now numbers 2,500. Much of the staff reduction served to streamline Penmas'
administration. On a national basis, however, approximately one-third of all
fieldworker positions need to be filled. As part of its plan to revitalize
Penmas over the next decade, the Government intends to fill existing sub-
district vacancies to provide each with one fieldworker. During this period,
it also plans to create and staff new positions to support the planned modi-
fication of Penmas' provincial and district organization described above.
Estimates of existing professional staff and total requirements are listed
below:
Existing      Existing Vacancies            Total
Professional      and Additional         Requirements for
Staff          Requirements          Professional Staff
Provincial
Level             70                 500                     570
District
Level            230                 240                     470
Subdistrict
Level          2,200               1,060                   3,260
Total            2,500               1,800                   4,300
The Government began to recruit required professional staff during late 1976
and selected an initial 660 staff in early 1977. In order to implement fully
its plans to reorganize and restaff Penmas, the Government is planning to
increase the Penmas recurrent budget from US$.82 million in 1975/76 to US$5.4
million over the next 10 years. Eventually, the Government intends to increase
Penmas' coverage of the target group by allocating fieldworkers on the basis
of population criteria.
3.12      Staff Training.  Existing Penmas staff often lack relevant experience
in non-formal education and community development. In the past few years,
Penmas has provided no pre-service staff training and in-service training has
been conducted on an ad hoc basis, often by untrained instructors. In accord-
ance with the Government's plan to strengthen Penmas, the 660 new staff selected
during early 1977 were chosen from among 800 applicants, all ex-Butsi volunteers
(para 3.04) possessing direct community development experience and university
degrees. In the future the Government intends to continue to recruit new staff
with prior experience, to provide continuous in-service upgrading for staff and
to establish a regular pre-service training program by strengthening existing
adult and community education programs in secondary teacher training institutes
(IKIPs).
3.13      Delivery System.  Penmas uses two techniques to deliver its educa-
tion programs. The main and most successful mechanism is the village-based
learning group organized by fieldworkers. Working in close cooperation with



-8-
local government officials and village leaders, fieldworkers identify prior-
ity village training needs and organize learning groups comprised of 10 to 20
villagers. Each group appoints a learning group leader who schedules meetings
(daily, semi-weekly, weekly), keeps records of attendance and makes necessary
administrative arrangements. Learning group leaders are not generally tea-
chers. Rather, they work with Penmas fieldworkers to manage learning activi-
ties by providing required resources (e.g., meeting site, instructors or
resource personnel, funds and instructional materials). Instructors, who
receive small honoraria, are generally members of the community or field-
workers from other agencies. The duration of learning activities varies with
training objectives, from a few weeks to as long as a year. With the assist-
ance of USAID, the Office of Educational Research and Development of the DEC
(BP3K) has been conducting research on ways to improve the effectiveness of
administrative support for learning groups.
3.14      A second means by which Penmas delivers its education program is
through training provided at PLPMs (subdistrict education centers). The
PLPMs have a staff of five to seven which conducts a variety of courses at
the center for the local population. The centers operate like traditional
schools except they lack grade structure and certification systems. A smaller
.i.mber of learning activities are organized by PLPM staff in nearby villages.
Short training courses for Penmas fieldworkers, also conducted occasionally
by PLPH1 staff, are largely ineffective. The Penmas Directorate plans to
strengthen the PLPMs by: (a) increasing emphasis on vocational and practical
skills in courses offered at the centers; and (b) shifting the emphasis of
PLPMs from conducting courses at the center to supporting learning group
activities promoted by Penmas fieldworkers, a more effective means by which
to reach the poorer and more remote villagers. To realize these goals, PLPMIs
would need additional hand tools, simple equipment and increased staff mobility.
Mloreover, staff would need regular training related to their new responsibili-
ties. The Penmas directorate also has decided to shift the responsibility for
training its fieldworkers from the many PLPMs in a province to a single pro-
vincial center which could offer regular training more efficiently and provide
more highly qualified trainers. Past training of fieldworkers has been more
succesful when conducted by qualified trainers.
3.15      Program Content and Objectives.  Penmas training is designed to
impart practical skills and knowledge to: supplement incomes; improve family
health; create community infrastructure; foster awareness of available govern-
ment services; and create receptivity to development programs. Activities
center on four core learning areas:
(a) vocational training in cottage and home industry skills (e.g.,
mat and basket weaving, sewing, batik design, simple manu-
facturing, barbering, light construction); para-agricultural
skills (e.g., home gardening, animal breeding, primary food
processing); and, basic technological and home/community
improvement skills (e.g., in pump and rotor maintenance,
bicycle and radio repair, carpentry, drainage, irrigation,
erosion control and sanitation systems);



- 9 -
(b)  family life education in health, hygiene, nutrition, child-    )
care and family planning;
(c)  community education including leadership training and courses
on local government and community development techniques; and
(d)  basic education in literacy and numeracy.
In 1976 the Government completed a series of case studies on village learning
group activities in rural areas. The study determined that outcomes of activ-
ities included increased employment and income, improved knowledge and practice
related to nutrition and hygiene, and increased effectiveness of government
services and programs. Specific outcomes of learning group activities iden-
tified by the study included: employment in tailoring; supplementary income
from mat weaving; establishment of a village credit bank leading to increased
activity of small entrepreneurs; improved nutrition as a side effect of in-
struction in rabbit rearing; construction of schools, roads and irrigation
canals; and increased rates of primary school attendance through raising
parents' awareness of the importance of education.
3.16      Of the four Penmas learning areas, activities in vocational train-
ing have produced the most clear and direct benefits. Rural participants
have been able to supplement incomes after acquiring off-farm skilis such as
those identified above. Urban participants have been able to find ermployment,
often part-time, after they have learned a skill such as barbering, bicycle
or motorcycle repair, tailoring or simple electronics. Despite this, only
5% of recent Penmas clients have participated in vocational training. Penmas
has found it difficult to identify and teach a range of productive skills
broad enough to permit mass participation in vocational training courses. It
has further been hampered by insufficient funds and an inadequate supply of
instructional materials. Penmas' most popular courses (accounting for 40% of
recent participants) are those in family life education, relevant r.iostly to
women. The literacy courses (accounting for 45% of participants), are pre-
sently under review by the Penmas directorate in light of data showing high
dropout and low literacy retention rates. In the next years, the Government
intends to focus Penmas' emphasis on expanding the number and variety of its
vocational skill training courses.
3.17      Target Population.  The Second Five-Year Plan identifies out-of-
school youths and young adults, aged 10-24, with little or no formal education
as the prime target group for Penmas. This group comprises most of the 3.4
million out-of-school children aged 7-12, all of the 14 million youths aged
13-18 not attending school and part of the 23 million adult illiterates over
the age of 18. A disproportionately high number of persons from rural, lower
socio-economic groups make up the priority target population. Penmas has also
been particularly concerned with reaching women, 50% of whom have no formal
education (compared with 30% of men) and 70% of whom are illiterate (compared
with a national norm of 40%).
3.18      The success of Penmas has been mixed in reaching the poorest seg-
ments of the out-of-school population and those having had the least access
to formal education. Penmas has had its best success in reaching this group



- 10 -
when: (a) courses are conducted in rural areas in homes and less imposing
buildings and out-of-doors; (b) instructional techniques rely more on parti-
cipatory learning and less on classroom meetings; (c) courses more interesting
and relevant to the poorest or most remote groups are identified and offered;
(d) instructional materials used include tools, posters and supporting visual
aids in addition to pamphlets and the other written materials; and (e) econo-
mic obstacles to participation, such as fees and contributions by participants
for consumable course materials, are removed. Penmas has had success in reach-
ing women who have comprised approximately half of its clientele. To strengthen
access to the target population, Penmas plans to provide vehicles for its
f ieldworkers.
3.19      Instructional Materials.  Non-formal education activities in
Indonesia suffer from a lack of support materials. Moreover, the general
quality of existing materials has been poor. Inadequate budget allocations
and a shortage of staff responsible for developing and producing suitable
learning materials have been problems. Other problems Penmas has encountered
in developing learning materials include:
(a) inadequate testing and evaluation of materials
prior to production;
(b) lack of concern for attractiveness, color, design
and layout of materials;
(c) insufficient attention to media other than pamphlets
(e.g., posters, instructional kits, slides);
(d) inappropriate selection of material production teams,
especially in omitting field staff and end-users from
such teams;
(e) duplication of efforts in materials development through
inattention to adapting existing non-formal education
materials developed by other agencies and ministries
(e.g., agriculture, health).
Penmas is concerned about these matters and has launched a program with the
aid of Unicef to improve its non-formal education materials. During the first
quarter of 1977, Penmas collected non-formal instructional materials produced
by other agencies. During the same period it finalized the first of three
planned curriculum guidelines (Paket A) for non-formal education. The guide-
line identifies about 100 basic education units (i.e., pre-natal nutrition of
mothers, pottery making, maintenance of lift pumps and construction of pit
latrines and irrigation sluiceways). The guideline lists the learning objec-
tives of each unit and describes the skills which participants should acquire
upon its completion. Appropriate teaching materials for 12 of the units are
scheduled for completion by the end of June 1977, and for another 12 of the
units, by the end of December 1977. In total Penmas would develop materials
for about 30 of the units with the assistance of Unicef. Thereafter it plans
to develop materials for the remaining 70 units of Paket A, and to develop



- 11 -
additional curriculum guidelines (Paket B, Paket C, etc.). In addition, it
plans to develop regionally specific supplementary materials and regional adapt-
ations of nationally produced materials. To achieve this task, Penmas would
establish materials development staffs in a number of provinces. Penmas also
plans to provide poster paper, crayons, paste, etc. to Penmas fieldworkers
in order that villagers can produce their own instructional materials. With
the assistance of USAID financing and specialist services provided by World
Education, Inc., Penmas plans to begin a library of Indonesian and foreign
non-formal education materials in August 1977.
3.20      Evaluation.  Since the educational needs of adults change and evolve,
non-formal education programs also must change. New courses, instructional
techniques and materials need to be developed regularly. It is inevitable that
some of these will be unsuccessful. Other courses which are successful must be
phased out when demand for them is saturated. This situation makes continuous
feedback and evaluation imperative. Penmas is concerned that evaluation has
not been an integral part of programs in the past. Management is aware that
it has not been provided the continuous stream of information necessary to
discriminate at an early stage between successful and unsuccessful programs
and practices. Moreover, most of the past effort has been devoted to measuring
the end product (i.e., the number of courses provided and the number of clients
served). However, little effort has been devoted to measuring the impact of
training on participants and inadequate emphasis has been attached to evalua-
ting Penmas processes. The former would include follow-up (tracer) studies on
Penmas clients and the latter, program monitoring (e.g., assessing the rele-
vance of educational needs identified by fieldworkers, and the suitability of
the educational activities and delivery techniques to local conditions) to
provide feedback for improving Penmas services. Penmas plans to strengthen
its impact evaluation and to expand extensively its process-oriented evaluation.
To achieve this objective, it would be necessary to designate staff responsible
for evaluation and to provide them adequate mobility to maintain regular
contact with field staff.
3.21      Plans and Programs.  The Government is planning to launch a pro-
gram to revitalize and expand Penmas activities under the Third Five-Year Plan
(1979-1984). The core of the program would be to reorganize and strengthen
the provincial offices of Penmas. The present administrative and supervisory
functions of these offices (to be called Balai Penmas or Penmas centers) would
be expanded to include technical support in the areas of staff training, mate-
rials development and production, feedback and evaluation. In addition, the
Government plans to equip field offices (Penmas district offices and PLPMs) and
to create a basic education fund to provide flexible support to local education
activities. Initial efforts would focus on areas of the country where Penmas
infrastructure is well established.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The overall purpose of the proposed project is to strengthen the
capacity of Penmas to provide effective non-formal education programs. The



- 12 -
project is designed to help overcome existing problems in administration,
training, materials development, evaluation and budgeting in seven provinces
comprising the majority of the population. The project would:
(a) strengthen the management and supervision capabilities
of Penmas through reorganization;
(b) establish a system of regular in-service training
for Penmas staff;.
(c) create institutions to develop, produce and
distribute improved learning materials;
(d) provide a source for direct and flexible funding of
village-level learning activities by establishing
local learning funds; and.
(e) introduce continuous evaluation of Penmas programs.
The project would provide a service of non-formal education to about 830,000
youths and adults annually. It would be followed by replication on a national
scale to strengthen Penmas services in all provinces.
4.02      The project would finance:
(a) civil works to renovate two existing, and civil works and land
acquisition to establish four new, Penmas training and develop-
ment centers (Balai Penmas) (proposed outlay, US$2.3 million); /1
(b) equipment and materials, office furniture and vehicles (about
230 four-wheel vehicles and 1,880 motorcycles) for the national
Penmas directorate, the six Balai Penmas, 148 district offices,
48 educational centers (PLP1Is) and 1,872 fieldworkers (proposed
outlay, US$6.1 million);
(c) annual in-service training for 3,100 Penmas staff (proposed
outlay, US$3.2 million);
(d) development of approximately 100 titles, and printing of
11 million pamphlets and supporting non-formal instructional
materials and development of a program monitoring and evalua-
tion system (proposed outlay US$5.9 million);
(e) a basic education learning fund in 148 districts to
support learning programs developed and initiated
with village participation (proposed outlay US$0.8
million); and
/1   Proposed outlays exclude contingencies.



- 13 -
(f) related technical assistance (proposed outlay US$3.2
million).
4.03      The key element to the project would be the six Balai Penmas.
The six centers would: conduct training programs for all provincial staff;
develop, test and produce instructional materials; and undertake program
evaluation. Two existing centers, Kebon Jeruk in Jakarta (to serve the
urban area of Jakarta) and Jayagiri near Bandung (to serve West Java), would
be strengthened. Four new Balai Penmas would be established at Semarang (to
serve Central Java and Jogyakarta), Surabaya (to serve East Java), Medan (to
serve North Sumatra) and Ujung Pandang (to serve South Sulawesi). These pro-
vinces were selected because: existing Penmas programs and infrastructure,
including core staff required to implement the project, are already concen-
trated in them; they comprise the bulk (85%) of the population whose daily
caloric intake is below a minimum adequate level; they require extensive
programs in non-farm skills training (creation of new agricultural employment
on Java will be limited); and they have adequate transportation infrastructure
to permit Penmas staff to provide support to field activities. In addition,
75% of Indonesia's population is concentrated in these provinces.
Penmas Organization
4.04      The project would assist Penmas to improve its management effec-
tiveness and develop its capabilities in staff training, materials develop-
ment and production, and program evaluation. The following key functions
would be assigned to each Penmas administrative level (Appendix III):
(a) The National Directorate would be responsible for policy
development, programming and national management of
Penmas activities, and for coordinating Penmas programs
with those of other agencies.
(b) Provincial Centers would develop and produce learning
materials, provide in-service training for all staff
within the province, and implement an evaluation scheme
for provincial programs.
(c) District Offices would provide on-the-job supervision
and training for fieldworkers, support fieldworkers with
audio-visual equipment and materials, and control dis-
bursements from the basic education learning fund. The
PLPMs would support fieldworkers with vocational equip-
ment and specialist teachers.
(d) Fieldworkers would identify local learning needs, organize
learning groups, train group leaders, and assist learning
groups to obtain funds, teachers and materials. They would
also participate in developing learning materials during
training at the Balai Penmas and would deliver materials
produced by those centers.
(e) Village Learning Group Leaders would be responsible for
scheduling and managing learning group activities.



- 14 -
4.05      A reorganization at the provincial and district levels would be
required to enable Penmas to carry out the above functions. The Balai Penmas
would integrate previously dispersed responsibilities for staff training,
materials development and evaluation thereby facilitating their coordination.
Moreover, it would permit involvement of field staff in all facets of the
Penmas program and thereby increase their understanding of it. Responsibil-
ities of district offices would be broadened to provide on-the-job training
for field staff. In addition, the PLPMs (at present serving as subdistrict
learning centers) would be reassigned as district learning centers to permit
them to support fieldworkers with learning resources and to assist them in
training learning group leaders. The DEC issued a ministerial decree (March 31,
1977) which authorizes the necessary changes in Penmas' structure under the
project. The decree creates five functional units in provincial Penmas
offices charged with administration; evaluation and monitoring; personnel
training and development; educational materials development and production;
and program delivery (Chart 2). It also transforms the subdistrict PLPMs into
district education centers.
Penmas Management
4.06      Under the project, the Penmas national directorate would have over-
all responsibility for policy development and programming of Penmas activities.
To strengthen its management capability, the first stage of the project would
include a training program for staff of the directorate, designed to improve
the directorate's ability to:
(a)  coordinate Penmas activities with other non-formal education
activities and to liaise with other agencies through its
role as secretariat to the NTCC (para 3.06);
(b)  direct a program to train staff of the Balai Penmas and to
inform provincial staff of other non-formal education
activities in Indonesia and other countries;
(c)  coordinate materials development by strengthening its
capacity to draft curriculum guidelines, allocate
responsibility for development of prototype materials
among the provincial centers and act as a clearing house
for interprovincial exchange of materials; and
(d) supervise, monitor and evaluate the Penmas learning
program.
The project would finance the training program for the directorate's staff
(viz. materials, transportation, boarding and honoraria). It would also
finance furniture and equipment for the directorate and related technical
assistance (Appendix IV).



- 15 -
4.07      Staff Development and Training.  In order to carry out the programs
supported by the project, it would be necessary to ensure the availability of
adequate Penmas staff in the project provinces (para 3.11). Existing Penmas
staff and additional staff required to implement the project are estimated as
follows:
Existing      Existing Vacancies         Total Staff
Professional      and Additional      Required for Project
Staff (est)    Requirements (est)        Implementation
Balai Penmas
Staff                  140                  100                    240
District Penmas
Officers                160                 140                    300
PLPM Staff                380                  -                     380
Fieldworkers           1,250                  620                  1,870
Total             1,930                  860                 2,790
The Government has provided the necessary budget and begun recruitment of
the first 660 staff (para 3.12). Appointments to the four new Balai Penmas
should be made to permit staff to participate in training programs prior to
assuming responsibility for operating the centers. Staff of the existing
Balai Penmas in Jakarta and West Java, responsible for initial planning,
training and materials development, should be appointed at an early stage of
project implementation. District offices would need a minimum of two qualified,
full-time Penmas officers whereas these offices now have only a single officer.
Subdistricts would need a minimum of one Penmas fieldworker. Many of these
positions are now vacant.
4.08      Prior to negotiations, the Government appointed key staff to the
Balai Penmas in West Java and Jakarta, including a director, a head of the
technical secretariat, and division chiefs for the divisions of: evaluation;
educational materials development; programs; and personnel training and develop-
ment. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on a schedule of
appointment of other staff to Penmas (Appendix V), and the Government provided
assurances that it would appoint and maintain, in accordance with the schedule,
qualified staff to provide a minimum of two full-time Penmas officers in each
district office and one full-time Penmas fieldworker in each subdistrict within
the project provinces and qualified staff to positions at the provincial level.
4.09      The project would assist the six Balai Penmas to establish a program
of in-service training of Penmas staff within each project province (Annex 4):



- 16 -
Approximate Annual Training at the Balai Penmas
No. of        No. of District       No. of Balai
Fieldworkers      and PLPM Staff         Penmas Staff
(4 weeks/year)    (2 weeks/year)          (2 weeks/year)
Central Java/Jogyakarta         490                  130                   40
West Java                       460                  140                   40
East Java                       540                  170                   40
South Sulawesi                  170                 130                    40
Jakarta                         310                   20                   40
North Sumatra                   180                   90                   40
Total                   2,150                  680                   240
During and after the project, the staff of the Balai Penmas would provide
some 2,150 fieldworkers (including about 280 from private voluntary agencies)
with four weeks of training per year, in two sessions. The 680 Penmas district
officers and PLPM staff would receive two weeks of training per year. Each
Balai Penmas would run an annual training course for two weeks for its own
staff with assistance from staff of the directorate and other agencies. Full
scale training is expected to commence in July 1979. Prior to that time, the
two existing Balai Penmas would be utilized for training the staff of the
national directorate and the six centers. Some training of field staff would
also be conducted during this period.
4.10      Training of fieldworkers at the provincial level would include lec-
tures on the objectives and methods of non-formal education but would center
on use and testing of new instructional materials; on assessing village learn-
ing needs and establishing learning groups; on observing innovative learning
activities and developing activities for basic learning fund assistance; on
developing case study material and training activities for other fieldworkers;
and on applying evaluation procedures. During the training, the fieldworkers
would participate in developing materials for province-wide use and instruc-
tional aids (e.g., posters, slides) to support learning activities within their
own subdistricts. The Balai Penmas in Jakarta, which would focus on providing
non-formal education for the urban poor, would train 280 fieldworkers from
private sector agencies in addition to Penmas fieldworkers.
4.11      Training of district staff would be geared towards improving its
capacity to provide increased technical support to fieldworkers. Under the
project, district staff would initiate a program of on-the-job training for
small groups of fieldworkers and would provide learning group follow-up
services such as job placement or marketing. Training of district, as well
as PLPM staff, would emphasize techniques for providing resource support
(including instructional and vocational equipment) to fieldworkers. Training
of provincial staff would be geared towards building its capacity for effec-
tive training, materials development and evaluation of provincial programs.
The project would also provide training for staff of the departments of adult
and community education at six IKIPs located in the project provinces. This
training, in non-formal education curricula development, training and evalua-
tion, would be designed to assist the IKIPs to better serve as pre-service



- 17 -
training grounds for future Penmas staff. Financing would be provided under
the project to operate the in-service training programs (viz. for staff
salaries, materials, transportation, boarding and honoraria) and for technical
assistance related to pre- and in-service training. During negotiations the
Government provided assurances that it would draw up annually a training
program satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter implement such program.
Learning Resources
4.12      Materials development.  The project would assist the Balai Penmas
to develop and produce instructional materials, including pamphlets, posters,
slides and tapes (Appendix VI and Annex 5). Some of these materials would be
based on the curriculum outlined for Paket A (para. 3.19); some would be based
on particular needs identified by fieldworkers; and some would incorporate
relevant materials developed under other Government programs (e.g., those
in the areas of nutrition, population and health, and those of an experimental
mass media project of the DEC's Office of Educational Research and Develop-
ment, BP3K). The Jakarta center would focus on materials for urban-oriented
courses whereas the remaining Balai Penmas would develop materials relevant
to regional and rural needs. To ensure coordination in materials development
and to avoid overlap, the Penmas Directorate would allocate titles of general
interest to each of the six Balai Penmas, whose staff would plan and manage
their development. Materials development would be carried out by a team,
generally including a subject specialist, a writer, an artist/designer and one
or more Penmas fieldworkers. Users of materials would be involved in their
development. After writing and tryout, prototype materials would be tested by
fieldworkers (during training or between training sessions) and revised prior
to mass production. Materials testing would be conducted in a representative
number of project subdistricts: 11, on average, for materials intended for
provincial use and 36 for materials intended for national use. The sample
sizes would be large enough to permit testing of basic variables (e.g., age,
mother tongue, level of previous education) but small enough to facilitate
administration. Should major revisions be required, revised materials would
be retested. Before the individual Balai Penmas begin operations, staff would
be trained in materials preparation (para. 4.07). Design and printing person-
nel would receive six months of local training at a school of commercial design
and printing (Pusat Grafika Indonesia). Materials development personnel would
receive 15 months of initial training and practice. Local specialists would
also be hired to assist with materials development.
4.13      The Penmas directorate would ensure a flow of materials among the
Balai Penmas, in order that materials developed in one province could be
adapted and tested for use in other provinces. After testing and approval by
the directorate, each Balai Penmas would produce materials as required for its
province. At the end of each of their semi-annual training programs, Penmas
fieldworkers would select and receive for use by their learning groups approxi-
mately 1,500 pamphlets and supporting materials from among those available.
This process would maximize the relevance of materials and eliminate the need
for shipment.
4.14      Financing would be provided under the project for costs of develop-
ing, testing and producing the materials and for related technical assistance.



- 18 -
The Government provided assurances during negotiations that no instructional
materials would be mass produced under the project without prior field testing
and subsequent revisions in at least (i) 4% of the sub-districts in a province
for materials to be used in a province, and (ii) in six sub-districts in each
of at least six provinces for materials to be used nationally.
4.15      Support Materials.  The project would provide instructional equipment
to the district offices and the PLPMs to enable them to provide technical sup-
port to fieldworkers. District offices would loan simple audiovisual equipment
(including battery operated slide projectors and cassette recorders) to field-
workers as needed for learning group activities. In addition, the project
would support experimentation with mobile printing units to be operated out of
six selected districts. These units would permit printing of local newsletters.
The 48 PLPMs within the project provinces would be provided with hand tools and
related supplies to be used by village level learning groups. The equipment
would also be used to conduct courses on PLPM premises but less than a quarter
of staff time would be applied to support such training.
4.16      The project would further provide an annual budget for basic sup-
plies (e.g., poster paper, flannel boards, colored pencils) to the field-
workers to be used to permit learning groups to produce their own materials.
Under the project, financing would be provided to equip 148 district offices
and 48 PLPMs; to procure six mobile printing units; and, to supply, operate
and maintain the equipment. It would also finance basic supplies to be
allocated by fieldworkers for learning group use.
Basic Learning Fund
4.17      To reduce the rigidity of centralized budgetary procedures, the
project would provide a basic learning fund which would be controlled at the
district level. The fund would facilitate a flexible and immediate Penmas
response to village-specific learning needs and active local participation
in the formulation of learning programs. Grants from the basic learning fund,
up to a maximum of Rp 100,000 (US$240), would be allocated to finance priority
learning group activities for which no regular Penmas funds had been desig-
nated. Up to one half of the cost of each activity would be financed from the
fund. In selecting activities for fund assistance, the degree to which a
proposed program would create productive skills, generate income, enhance
effectiveness of other local development projects, and involve the least
educated/poorest members of a community, would be taken into consideration
(Appendix VII). Since fund-assisted activities would often be experimental,
progress would be carefully monitored and evaluated by provincial Penmas
staff. Where relevant, successful activities would be replicated and funded
through regular Central Government allocations.
4.18      The learning fund, to be budgeted in accordance with normal Central
Government procedures, would reach a total of Rp 590 million (US$1.4 million
in current prices) during the project period. Each of the districts within
the project provinces would receive an annual allocation of about Rp 0.8
million (US$1,900) at the start, to be increased to about Rp 1.9 million
(US$4,600) by the end of the project. This amount would permit the funding



- 19 -
of a special learning activity (with a total cost of about Rp 63,300, or US$150)
in each village once every four years. Use of the fund would be administered
at the district level. Disbursement from the fund would be contingent upon:
(a) joint approval of the project, including a detailed list of costs for pro-
gram inputs (simple equipment, materials and/or instructors) by the district
Penmas office and the district representative of the Department of Home Affairs
(the bupati); and (b) evidence of a local commitment of at least one half of
total costs of the activity in money or in kind. The district Penmas office
would ensure the equitable distribution of the fund by rotating assistance
from village to village, though the effectiveness of ongoing learning activi-
ties in a given village would also be taken into account. Project financing
would be provided to establish the fund. During negotiations the Government
and the Bank agreed on criteria to be applied to select non-formal educa-
tion activities to be supported by the basic learning fund and procedures to
replenish the fund. Since an important criterion relates to funding learning
activities to create productive skills and generate income for participants,
the Government reconfirmed during negotiations that Penmas would continue
to provide training to develop productive skills for self-employment and cot-
tage industries.
Learning Programs
4.19      Under the project Penmas would continue to use the village-based
learning group as its principle mechanism for program delivery (para. 3.13).
The PLPM staff would direct their main effort towards assisting Penmas field-
workers in organizing learning groups (para 3.15). They would provide direct
support for learning group activities in the form of vocational equipment,
instructors and assistance in training learning group leaders. The project
aims at providing non-formal education and training to about 41,000 learning
groups comprising 830,000 participants annually by 1982 (Annex 6):
Project Target Clientele Per Year
Province             No. of Learning Groups   No. of Participants
Central Java and Jogyakarta             12,500                     245,000
West Java                                7,000                     145,000
Jakarta                                  3,000                      65,000
South Sulawesi                           3,500                      70,000
North Sumatera                           3,500                      75,000
East Java                               11,500                     230,000
Total                              41,000                     830,000
The Government has indicated that since 1972 Penmas has reached about 600,000
clients annually in these provinces. The targeted increase of nearly 30% would
be achieved gradually over the implementation period. In each project province
priority would be attached to serving the poorest and most disadvantaged seg-
ments of the out-of-school population (both rural and urban), focussing on
women, youths and young adults (para 3.17). The educational content of project



- 20 -
activities would comprise Penmas' four core areas of training (vocational
skills, family life education, community education and basic education - para
3.16). Particular emphasis would be placed on providing training in practical
skills designed to increase incomes and levels of employment. To facilitate
mobility of Penmas staff, in particular, the access of fieldworkers to the
target population, the project would finance 225 four wheel vehicles and 1,880
motorcycles.
Evaluation
4.20      The project would assist Penmas to develop and implement an evalua-
tion system comprising two main components. The first would be a planning and
performance monitoring system managed by staff of the Balai Penmas. It would
focus on collecting information related to the process of implementing Penmas
activities. It would address such issues as the extent to which the target
group is being reached by Penmas staff and project materials and program
delivery are appropriate to user needs. Measurement and collection procedures
would include fieldworker reports, survey-based needs assessments, case data
and reports by villagers. The evaluation staff would also be responsible for
assessing the effectiveness of Penmas organizational arrangements and staffing
procedures, including training activities, and for conducting follow-up studies
on Penmas learning group participants. In order to provide valid and timely
information, to be used to modify and improve Penmas operations, these evalua-
tion activities would be conducted on an ongoing basis in close collaboration
with personnel at all levels in the province. Results of analysis carried out
by the Balai Penmas evaluation unit would be regularly discussed with staff
throughout the province and with the users. Project financing would be used to
provide specialist services to assist in the development and implementation of
appropriate evaluation and feedback strategies at the provincial level.
4.21      The second component of the evaluation program would be a mid-
term review of the project conducted under the auspices of the DEC's Office
of Educational Research and Development (BP3K). WVhereas the evaluation
activities at the provincial center would focus primarily on the analysis
of process data, the BP3K review would concentrate on assessing the degree
to which Penmas has met its objectives under the project and on identifying
areas of strength and weakness. The results of this study would serve as
a basis for strengthening Penmas activities in the other provinces and for
possible second phase Bank assistance. Project financing would be provided to
assist BP3K in the review to be conducted during April-September 1981. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would conduct a
mid-term review of the project and submit it to the Bank for comment by
October 31, 1981.
Technical Assistance
4.22      Fellowships.  The proposed project includes nine man-years of
domestic fellowships and about 37 man-years of foreign fellowships for train-
ing project personnel in areas such as management, materials development,
communications theory and printing (Appendix IV). Domestic fellowships would
be provided to one person from each Balai Penmas to study materials design



- 21 -
for six months and four persons to study materials design and printing for
three months each at the Pusat Grafika Indonesia prior to the opening of the
Balai Penmas. Most fellowships for study abroad would be for short-term
apprenticeships or study tours, whenever possible within the Asia region.
These apprenticeships would allow eight staff of the Penmas Directorate and
five from each Balai Penmas to familiarize themselves with the strengths
and weaknesses of programs conducted in other countries in staff training,
materials development and non-formal education. Longer term formal training
at the level of the masters degree (but not necessarily leading to the degree)
would be provided to one person in the Penmas Directorate to study communica-
tions theory (including advertising theory), and to three persons from each of
six IKIPs in the project provinces (located in Bandung, Jakarta, Medan, Semarang,
Surabaja, and Ujung Pandang) to study non-formal education curriculum develop-
ment, training and evaluation. During negotiations the Government and the Bank
agreed on criteria and procedures for awarding fellowships (Appendix VIII).
4.23      Specialist Services.  The proposed project also includes 81 man-
years of domestic and about 24 man-years of foreign specialist services
required to implement the project. These services would be provided to:
the Penmas Directorate and Balai Penmas to assist in staff training, mater-
ials development, evaluation and management; to BP3K to assist in a mid-term
review of the project; and to the six project IKIPs to assist in strengthening
programs in adult and community education to improve pre-service training of
non-formal educators. Domestic specialists would generally be hired on a
piece-work basis to assist Penmas in: writing and designing learning mater-
ials; conducting staff training programs; undertaking evaluation; maintaining
and repairing equipment; and preparing equipment lists and tender documents
for procurement. Such specialists are available in Indonesia and can be hired
as part-time consultants. Except for the specialists involved in the mid-term
review of the project, foreign specialists would be formed into a team under
a technical assistance chief responsible to the Director of the Project Imple-
mentation Unit. The specialists involved in the mid-term review would be
responsible to BP3K. The project also provides for the services of local
consultant architects and an independent auditor. The qualifications and
experience of major consultants, as well as the terms and conditions of their
employment, would be acceptable to the Bank.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      The total cost of the project (Annex 7) is estimated at US$33.1
million equivalent and is summarized below:



- 22 -
Rp (Millions)              US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Land                            115       0       115      .28         0      .28
Civil Works                    534      288      822      1.29       .69     1.98
Equipment, Vehicles and
Furniture                    466   2,077    2,543       1.12     5.00      6.12
Materials Development,
Program Delivery and
Evaluation                 1,702      729    2,431      4.10      1.76     5.86
Penmas Staff Training        1,194      133    1,327      2.88       .32     3.20
Basic Learning Fund            302       33       335      .73       .08      .81
Technical Assistance           346      975    1,321       .83      2.35     3.18
Sub-total               4,659   4,235    8,894    11.23    10.20    21.43
Physical Contingencies         466      423      889      1.12      1.02     2.14
Price Contingencies          2,380   1,588    3,968       5.74      3.82     9.56
Total                   7,505   6,246   13,751    18.09    15.04    33.13
5.02      Project cost estimates assume an initial construction and procure-
ment period of about 24 months after loan signing and provide for three years
of operation of Penmas training activities, learning group activities and mate-
rials development and production by the Balai Penmas. Construction cost
estimates are based on early 1977 building costs in Indonesia. The average
cost per sq m is about US$170 exclusive of site development costs and profes-
sional service costs. This figure accords with building costs in other
projects in Indonesia and other countries in the region. Proposed utilization
factors for Balai Penmas average about 75%. Equipment costs are also based on
procurement experience under recent international tenders. Detailed equipment
lists are being prepared and would be reviewed by the Bank before tender.
Sketch plans for the Balai Penmas were drafted and reviewed by the Bank during
negotiations. Materials development costs are based on average unit prices in
Indonesia for producing printed, filmed and recorded materials similar to those
envisaged for the project. Incremental operating costs are based on (1) net
new staff to be recruited by Penmas for the project and (2) estimated vehicle
and equipment operating and maintenance costs during the project period. Staff
training costs are estimated on the basis of similar training activities now
underway in Indonesia. The estimates include the costs of travel, board,
lodging, operating expenses, pocket money, and lecturer fees. Foreign special-
ist services and fellowship costs are based on current experience for Indonesia
and amount respectively to about $5,500 and $1,200 per man-month.



- 23 -
5.03      A physical contingency of 10% has been added to all costs (Annex 8).
Price contingencies were estimated based on rates of inflation as follows:
1977   1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
(% per annum)
Equipment and Foreign
Technical Assistance           9      8      8     7     7      7
Other Project Costs             16     12    10      9      9     8
5.04      Based on an analysis of costs and on experience under earlier educa-
tion projects in Indonesia, the foreign cost components have been estimated as
follows: civil works and furniture, 35%; materials development and incremental
operating costs, 30%; staff training, 10%; equipment, 85%; and technical assist-
ance, 75%. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at US$15.0 million, or 45% of the total, which the proposed loan would
finance.
5.05      By 1983, annual recurrent costs of approximately Rp 1,300 million,
US$3.1 million equivalent in 1976 constant prices, would have to be borne by
the Government to continue the full scope of learning activities begun in the
seven provinces under the project. This would represent a one percent increase
in the budget of the DEC. The government plans to replicate the project on a
nationwide basis over the next two decades. In constant 1976 prices, such
replication would incur an additional investment expenditure estimated at
US$9 million equivalent. Additional operating costs would be on the order of
US$2 million equivalent, annually.
Project Implementation
5.06      The Penmas directorate within the Department of Education and Culture
would be responsible for project implementation. Selected staff of the direc-
torate have been appointed to be responsible for project administration, finan-
cial control, procurement and liaison with the Bank (Chart 3). Specifically,
the project implementation unit (PIU) includes a director, deputy director,
provincial subdirectors, architect, procurement officer, comptroller, a chief
for technical assistance and specialists in training, programming, learning
materials and evaluation. During negotiations the Government provided assur-
ances that it would maintain appropriate staff in the project unit until
the Closing Date of the Loan Agreement.
5.07,     Using normal Government procedures, the PIU would assist each year
in planning, coordinating and reviewing the work of all the Balai Penmas and
the development budget for all Penmas activities in the project provinces.
Procurement activities for civil works, equipment, furniture, materials and
technical assistance and fellowships would be handled by the PIU. Within the
budgets allocated to them each year, the Balai Penmas would be responsible for
carrying out the materials development activities, training activities, and
meeting operating costs associated with the Penmas program in the particular
province. During project implementation it should be considered further



- 24 -
whether it would be economically advantageous to centralize the procurement of
paper and printing supplies for the Balai Penmas, in which case the PIU would
assume this function. An accounting officer at each Balai Penmas would collect
complete budgetary and expenditure information from all Penmas offices at the
subprovince level according to normal Government procedures and would be
responsible for reporting on all expenditures and all progress in utiliza-
tion of the budget to the PIU.
5.08      Master equipment lists would be reviewed by the Bank before procure-
ment. In order to ensure adequate control and maintenance of equipment,
the project unit should implement an inventory control and maintenance system.
For purposes of project planning and performance review, the project unit
should also establish a planning and performance monitoring system for imple-
mentation of all project components. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that it would submit to the Bank for comment by December 31,
1978, and thereafter implement, details of (i) an equipment inventory control
and maintenance system and (ii) a planning and performance monitoring system.
5.09      Professional Services.  Design and supervision of the civil works
for the six Balai Penmas would be carried out by qualified local consultant
architects acceptable to the Bank. The consultants have been appointed and
have completed draft sketch plans under the supervision of the PIU architect.
During negotiations the Government and the Bank agreed on minor modifications
to the draft sketch plans for the Balai Penmas.
5.10      Sites.  Sites for the four new Balai Penmas have been selected,
adequate budgetary provisions for their purchase have been made and the acqui-
sition process has been initiated. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that it would acquire title to each site six months before the
scheduled start of construction at each site.
5.11      Procurement.  Because of the small size of contracts and the dispersed
nature of works involved, contracts for civil works, materials and furniture
would be awarded following local advertisement and competitive bidding in
accordance with Government regulations acceptable to the Bank. Indonesia has a
well-developed construction industry and foreign firms not already established
in the country are not likely to bid. Foreign firms or joint ventures meeting
the requirements for doing business in Indonesia would be free to participate.
Equipment and vehicle contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing imported items. Imports made directly by
the PIU for the project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes.
During negotiations the Government provided assurance that vehicles imported
under the project would be exempt from existing import restrictions. Equipment
purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts of US$50,000
equivalent or more, could be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following normal Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Equipment, materials and furniture which can not be reasonably grouped to
form contracts of at least Rp 5 million (US$12,500 equivalent) each of such



- 25 -
purchases subject to a total of US$300,000 equivalent and a maximum of five
vehicles, costing US$ 50,000 equivalent or less could be purchased through
prudent shopping on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations. Prior
Bank review would be required of all civil works contracts over US$200,000
and all equipment and furniture contracts over US$50,000 equivalent. The six
mobile printing units would be procured directly from the supplier.
5.12      Financial Procedures and Reporting.  Government budgetary procedures
for projects of this kind place responsibility on the province for control of
expenditures at the provincial level and below.   Each subprovincial level of
Government is responsible for controlling and accounting for the use of funds
by all units of Government within its jurisdiction. Detailed reports of
expenditure and proof of payment are therefore available at the provincial
level, and the Balai Penmas accounting officer would keep these records for
review by supervision missions. He would also be responsible for submitting
timely reports to the PIU for preparation of a single project account. An
annual audit would be conducted by an independent auditor with copies sent to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. During
negotiations the Government and the Bank agreed on procedures for an annual
audit of project expenditures.
5.13      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$15 million would finance
foreign exchange costs of the project. The loan would be disbursed over
a period of about five years (Annex 9) to meet:
(a) 30% of total expenditures for civil works, engineering and archi-
tectural services, and furniture;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. price of imported equipment, materials and
vehicles; 95% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment and materials and 65% of the price of imported but
locally procured equipment and materials (40% for vehicles
purchased locally);
(c) 50% of the total costs of local fellowships and staff training;
(d) 50% of the total cost of the basic learning fund; and
(e) 100% of the cost of consultants' services and overseas fellowships.
Disbursements for staff training would be made against certified summaries of
numbers of persons trained and an estimated average cost per trainee.



- 26 -
5.14      Implementation Period.  Implementation of the proposed project would
be completed about four and a half years after loan effectiveness (Annex 10).
This schedule allows about two years for construction and procurement of
equipment and three years for training and materials development activities at
each Balai Penmas. The Government has made good progress in the initial stages
of implementation. Penmas staff were selected for the project unit in January
1977. Consultant architects were selected in March 1977 and submitted draft
sketch plans in June 1977. Sites for the four new Balai Penmas have been
selected and are being acquired. 'Master equipment lists are being finalized.
An inventory has been compiled of non-formal education materials developed for
use in Indonesia. The decree creating the organization for the revised provin-
cial and district offices was issued in March 1977. Key staff for the provin-
cial Penmas offices at Kebon Jeruk and Jayagiri were appointed in July 1977.
Finally, the Government has created a working secretariat for the National
Technical Coordinating Committee. The project is expected to be completed
by mid-1982, and the closing date would be June 30, 1983.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Despite the rapid expansion of formal education, nearly a third
(40 million) of Indonesia's population has had little or no access to schools.
This group of out-of-school youth and illiterate adults comprises about half of
the population classified as the severely poor. The group is characterized by:
high rates of unemployment and under-employment; low productivity and income;
poor nutrition, health and hygiene; high rates of birth and infant mortality;
and a narrow range of physical and mental skills. These out-of-school youths
and illiterate adults need practical skills and basic knowledge to increase
their productivity and to improve their standard of living. The proposed
project would contribute to achievement of this objective by assisting Penmas
to strengthen its institutional capability to provide effective non-formal
education programs.
6.02      In strengthenincg. Penmas, the project would provide vocational train-
ing and basic education to 2.5 million Indonesians in seven provinces between
1979 and 1982, increasing to one million persons annually thereafter. The
service thus provided would reach approximately 30% of the out-of-school
population over a 10 year period. In accordance with the emphasis the Govern-
ment attaches to improving the equity of educational opportunity, the priority
target groups to be served by the project would be the poorest segments of the
population, with special emphasis on women and out-of-school youths and young
adults. Some 85% of these persons would be rural inhabitants and the remain-
ing 15% would be from urban areas.



- 27 -
5.03      blear-term benefits expected from improved Penmas' vocational training
and basic education under the project would include:
(a) increased incomes and levels of employment for
both men and women;
(b) better family health, nutrition and hygiene; L-
(c) improved community infrastructure; and
(d) increased receptivity to, and effectiveness of,
government services and programs.
In accordance with priorities set under the Second Five-Year Development
Plan, expected long-term benefits would include progress towards equaliza-
tion of income distribution and a possible decline in the birth rate due
to a higher level of educational achievement by women.
6.04      Risks.  The benefits expected from the project would depend mainly
on the competence and dedication of staff appointed to the Balai Penmas'.
The competence of the staff would in turn affect the quality of educational
activities, their relevance to learning needs and their ability to attract
oarticipants from the priority learning group.  The proposed project includes
reasonable provisions to minimize the risk of poor quality staff by providing
support to them in terms of staff training and technical assistance. Mis-
appropriation of the proceeds of the basic learning fund is also a risk under
the project. Control at the district level, provided by Penmas officers
and representatives of the Department of lome Affairs, in addition to regular
control procedures required by the Department of Finance, would limit misuse
of the fund. The varied and changing needs of out-of-school youth and adults,
and the innovative character of the non-formal programs, make it inevitable
that some programs will fail. Continuous evaluation would be an integral part
of the project to identify and eliminate unsuccessful programs at an early
stage.
VII. AGREEMENTTS REACHED
7.01      During negotiations the Government and the Bank agreed on:
(a) a schedule for appointment of staff to Penmas (para. 4.08);
(b) criteria to be applied to select non-formal education
activities to be supported by the basic learning fund
and procedures to replenish the fund (para. 4.18);



- 28 -
(c)  criteria and procedures for awarding fellowships (para. 4.22).
(d)  minor modifications to the draft sketch plans for the Balai
Penmas (para. 5.09); and
(e)  procedures for an annual audit of project expenditures
(para. 5.12).
7.02      During negotiations the Government provided assurance that:
(a)  it would appoint and maintain, in accordance with a mutually
acceptable schedule, qualified staff to provide a minimum of
two fulltime Penmas officers in each district office and one
fulltime Penmas fieldworker in each subdistrict within the
project provinces and qualified staff to positions at the
provincial level (para. 4.08);
(b)  it would draw up annually a training program satisfactory to
the Bank and thereafter implement such program (para. 4.11);
(c)  no instructional materials would be mass produced under
the project without adequate prior field testing and
subsequent revisions (para. 4.14);
(d)  Penmas would continue to provide training to develop
productive skills for self-employment and cottage
industries (para. 4.18);
(e)  it would conduct a mid-term review of the project and
submit it to the Bank for comment by October 31, 1981
(para. 4.21);
(f)  it would maintain appropriate staff in the project implementation
unit until the Closing Date (para. 5.06).
(g)  it would submit to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1978
and thereafter implement, details of (i) an equipment inventory
control and maintenance system and (ii) a planning and per-
formance monitoring system (para. 5.08);
(h)  acquire title to each site six months before the scheduled
start of construction at each site (para. 5.10); and
(i)  vehicles imported under the project would be exempt from
import restrictions (para 5.11).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a SuitaLbe basis for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.



- 29 -
APPENDIX I
Page 1
WORLD BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE IN EDUCATION
One education project has been completed, and four projects are
presently being carried out with World Bank assistance In Indonesia. They
are summarized as follows:
First Education (Credit 219-IND)
Five new centralized workshops (TTCs) for 14 technical senior
secondary schools (STMs).
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$7.6 million
Total project cost (actual est.)        US$10.8 million
Amount of Credit                        US$4.6 million
Amount disbursed                        US$4.5 million
Amount cancelled                        US$0.1 million
Date of Credit Agreement                November 6, 1970
Closing Date                            December 31, 1976
The project was fully implemented by mid-1976, about six months
before the closing date. Although construction started 12 months behind
schedule because of delays in appointing consulting architects, most civil works
were completed on schedule. Procurement and installation of most major furni-
ture and equipment were not completed until the end of 1975 and minor equip-
ment procurement continued until August 1976. Nearly 550 technical teachers
completed training under the project or about 70% more than planned. This
was caused by a reduction of the class and workshop group size and the conse-
quent increased need of teachers. The TTCs started operating on a limited
basis in mid-1975, were two-thirds occupied in 1976 with two of the three
grades making use of the facilities, and became fully operational in 1977.
While there are no graduates yet from the TTCs, the quality of training in
the TTCs, in comparison with those STMs without the centralized workshop
supporting facilities, has been much improved through the provisions made
in this project, i.e. better facilities (workshops and equipment), better
trained teachers, improved curriculum and closer linkage with industry.
Second Education (Credit 288-IND)
Thirteen in-service training centers (ISTCs) and
a training institute for agricultural extension
workers (rehabilitation, expansion and equipping);
Two new agricultural senior secondary schools (SPMA);
Twelve agricultural senior secondary schools (rehabil-
itation expansion and equipping).



- 30 -
APPENDIX I
Page 2
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$12.3 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$23.2 million
Amount of Credit                        US$6.3 million
Amount disbursed (5/31/77)              US$5.6 million
Date of Credit Agreement                March 9, 1972
Closing Date                            March 31, 1978
Because of the delays in the initial stages of implementation, the
project completion will be delayed by about one year. Good progress was made
however, during 1976. Progress and quality of civil works are satisfactory.
Construction has been completed at twenty-six of the twenty-seven project
institutions. Furniture and equipment to be acquired under the project has
been contracted. Delivery of equipment from port of entry to school is
delayed because the necessary budget funds for local handling and transpor-
tation charges were not included in FY76-77, as requested by PIU. Adequate
funds, however, have been provided in FY77-78 permitting the delivery to be
completed by the end of 1977, when all project institutions will be in use.
The technical assistance program is virtually complete. Enrollment and out-
puts of the SPMA conform to the appraisal estimate. During the last six
months the teaching force of the SPNIA was increased from 91 to 123. Another
41 staff will be recruited this year. For the ISTC, all teachers have been
selected but not yet appointed.
Third Education (Credit 387-IND)
Testing, production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects;
Preparation and testing of related prototype teach-
ing aids; and
Related in-service training of 350,000 primary school
teachers and upgrading of 2,800 supervisors.
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$39.2 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$58.9 million
Amount of Credit                        US$13.5 million
Amount disbursed (5/31/77)              US$5.4 million
Date of Credit Agreement                June 1, 1973
Closing Date                            December 31, 1981
The first 31 million textbooks produced during 1975/76 have been
distributed and are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1976/77 is well under way. Book
delivery, a problem when printers were required to arrange delivery, has
been improved through the appointment of a national forwarding company as
general contractor. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered.
To improve effectiveness of equipment utilization, the Government is being
urged to prepare instruction manuals for its use. Motorcycles have been



- 31 -
APPENDIX I
Page 3
delivered and are being used by school inspectors. Teacher training is being
conducted on a large scale but it has proved difficult to keep the training
program in phase with book deliveries. A rephasing of the training program
is being considered. Project management has been strengthened by arrival of
UNESCO specialists and appointment of additional Indonesian staff. The Bank
Group is planning to mount a mission to review textbook development and pro-
duction in Indonesia to determine how it can help to consolidate and institu-
tionalize these functions. Project implementation is largely on schedule and
is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Fourth Education (Loan 1237-INm)
Expansion of two Technical Teacher Training Facilities
(FKITs) and four new Technical Training Centers (TTCs)
under the Department of Education and Technical Assist-
ance through UNESCO;
Seventeen new Vocational Training Center (PLKs),
equipment for 25 Mobile Training Units (MTUs),
furniture and equipment for one PLK under the Depart-
ment of Manpower, and Technical Assistance through
ILO; and
New training facilities for the National Institute
of Administration (LAN) and Technical Assistance
through UNOTC. 1/
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$64.2 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$64.2 million
Amount of Credit                        US$37.0 million
Amount disbursed (5/31/77)              US$0.9 million
Date of Credit Agreement                April 15, 1976
Closing Date                            December 31, 1980
The project became effective on June 17, 1976.  Project Implemen-
taticn Units have been established for all three components of the project.
A project coordinator and three team leaders for the UNESCO, ILO and UNOTC
preparatory technical assistance have arrived in the field. Contract agree-
ments with the consultant architects and the Funds-in-Trust Agreements with
UNESCO, ILO and UNOTC have been signed and the technical assistance is
progressing satisfactorily. Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory with some exceptions due to difficult site conditions and high
site development costs. Schematic design for the Education and Manpower
sub-projects have been prepared by the consultant and approved by the
Bank, while those for the LAN sub-project are being revised. Overall
project implementation is about ten months behind schedule, but is expected
to be completed within Closing Date. Disbursements are on schedule.
1/   United Nations Office of Technical Cooperation.



- 32 -
APPENDIX I
Page 4
Fifth Education (Loan 1433-IND)
Revision teacher training programs;
Development, production and distribution related
instructional materials;
Retraining 7,000 teacher educators;
Specialized facilities at 69 teacher training
institutions (construction, equipment and fur-
niture) and equipment for 14 institutions; and
Support specialized studies of teacher training.
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$42.8 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$42.8 million
Amount of Loan                          US$19.0 million
Amount disbursed
Date of Loan Agreement                        -
Closing Date                            June 30, 1978
The project was negotiated in April 1977 and signed on June 6, 1977.



- 33 -
APPENDIX II
Page 1
THE NON-FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Overview
1.01      There is a wide range of non-formal education programs, both gov-
ernmental and private, directed towards educationally deprived segments of the
Indonesian population and towards those who are un- or underemployed. Among
important purveyors of governmental programs are the DEC, whose Directorate
for Community Education, Penmas, has responsibility for providing general
vocational and basic education to the out-of-school population, and the
Department of Manpower, which has responsibility for providing modern sector
skills, training and upgrading to other than civil service employees. Other
non-formal education programs exist for the purpose of supporting government
extension programs in specific areas. Most prominent are the educative
efforts of the Departments of Agriculture and Health which support goals of
increasing agricultural output and improving the country's health standards,
respectively. At times, these and other Departments enlist the assistance
of the Department of Information to publicize their programs. Another type of
program is geared towards training people to carry out self-help efforts
at the village level. In this category are the community development pro-
grams carried out by the Domestic Volunteer Development Service (Butsi) and
the National Scouting Movement (Pramuka), which focusses on village youth.
Another self-help program, conducted by the Department of Home Affairs, aims to
train adult villagers as community development agents. Finally, the Department
of Education's Office of Research and Development (BP3K), supports and assesses
the impact of out-of-school education activities by conducting experiments in
community education. Comparative data collected from the experimental activi-
ties are used to formulate national strategy and policy in non-formal education.
1.02      Commercial enterprises provide a variety of skills training to per-
sons able to pay or sponsored by an employer. Such training is regulated
by the DEC's Directorate of Vocational Training. In addition, some large
firms provide apprenticeship training to new recruits. Private non-profit
organizations also provide non-formal training. Among the largest of these
is the Congress of Indonesian Women.
Existing Programs
1.03      Department of Agriculture.  The educational activities of the
Department of Agriculture are aimed at improving the farming techniques and
practices of the country's farmers. There are some 30,000 agents assigned
to the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension, which has
responsibility for extension services in agriculture, animal husbandry, fish-
eries and forestry. A major thrust of the Agency's activities has been to
encourage farmers to adopt more advanced techniques of rice production. In
this and other programs, extension services provide the means to improve pro-
duction by supplying such items as fertilizers and pesticides and by offering
credit. The agents generally operate out of rural extension centers for



- 34 -
APPENDIX II
Page 2
demonstration and training which are to be expanded under Repelita II. The
Department of Agriculture also uses mass media to disseminate agricultural
inforrnation, both by preparing and distributing agricultural magazines and
by operating radio broadcasts.
1.04      Department of Health.  The Department of Health is responsible for
delivery of health services. Its long-term goal is to prevent disease inso-
far as possible by concentrating on teaching the population about sanitation,
nutrition and family planning. The achievement of this goal on a national
scale, however, is still remote. The major channel for dissemination of such
education is the Community Health Center (Pusat Kesehatan Masyarakat), which
is supposed to be staffed by a doctor and a nurse. In practice, educative
functions play a secondary role to direct health care. Family planning
activities, thus far limited to Java and Bali, have been relatively suc-
cessful. Plans are underway to quadruple the "acceptors" in these two areas
and to extend the program to additional provinces. Donor funds and Govern-
ment efforts are channeled through an interdepartmental group, National
Coordinating Body for Family Planning (BKKBN), and a variety of strategies
have been used including clinics, fieldworkers, and local marketing mechan-
isms. A separate effort to emphasize nutrition is getting underway: the
Applied Nutrition Program (ANP) is to operate through boards at the provincial
and district levels consisting of representatives of the Departments of
Health, Agriculture, Education, Interior and Social Affairs.
1.05      Department of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives.  This
Department has been assigned specific responsibility for specialized skills
training for persons who are not employed by the Government. It operates
nine Technical Skill Training Centers (PLKs) in urban areas and 19 mobile
skill training units in rural areas. Three other educational programs under
the Department are aimed at different target groups: families resettling in
outlying islands, members of village cooperatives and unemployed university
graduates.
(a) Technical Skill Training Centers offer such courses as
automotive/diesel mechanics, electronics/radio, metalwork,
welding and construction, and business management.  More
than half the trainees are unemployed adults and graduates
of junior high technical schools who want to upgrade their
skills. Total training capacity for each center is under
1,000. The most recent figures (1972-73) showed total
enrollment a 7,000 with only 4,300 reported as having
completed their training. Plans are underway to increase
the number of centers to 26, at least one per province.
(b) Miobile Skill Training Units offer either basic industrial
skills training or basic agricultural skill training. Each
of the 19 units can accommodate up to 60 trainees during
a two-month course, resulting in a possible total enroll-
ment at any given time of 1,140. Plans exist to increase
the number of units to 80 and to broaden the curriculum.



- 35 -
APPENDIX II
Page 3
(c) The Directorate of Transmigration is responsible for
implementing the government's program of encouraging
families and youths to move from the crowded provinces
of Java to the less populated areas of the outer islands.
Repelita II policy is to provide an integrated program
of education and training to new settlers in both farming
and non-farm skills and in general orientation to help
these families adjust to their new lives.
(d) The Directorate of Cooperatives is charged with the task
of promoting the development of cooperatives, but its
impact on cooperative management has thus far been
limited.
1.06      The Indonesian Board for Volunteer Service (BUTSI) recruits
Indonesian university graduates to work as volunteers at the village level
in on-going developmental programs. The program has augmented the pool of
qualified and experienced new community development educators in Indonesia.
1.07      The Department of Education and Culture is responsible for two non-
formal training programs in addition to Penmas activities:
(a)  The National Work-Study Scheme (KKN) is aimed at college
students. Its basic goal is to enrich their education
by assigning them for six months to village development
work. The program is new and operates on a pilot basis
only.
(b) The Arts Education Program (Pendidikan Kesenian) emphasizes
the preservation of Indonesia's cultural heritage through
museum classes, courses in the performing arts, literature
and crafts training.
1.08      Department of Home Affairs.  The Director-General of Village Devel-
opment (PD) is charged with involving villagers in self-help activities of
all kinds. Many of these self-help activities result in the mobilization
of educational resources and construction of facilities to serve local
communities. The PD also trains village chiefs (lurahs) and other village
leaders in the management of development activities. PD officers are
stationed at the provincial, district and sub-district levels. The village
chief has responsibility for carrying out village level programs through a
Village Social Council (LSD).
1.09      Department of Social Affairs.  Until 1974, this Department had
responsibility for the country's major village-level self-help program,
the LSDs, described above. With the subsequent transfer of these respon-
sibilities to the Department of Interior, the Department's educational
function was redefined under the Directorate-General of Rural Social
Development. This Directorate's program, like LSD program, is geared to



- 36 -
APPENDIX II
Page 4
fostering village-level self-help programs. At present, it only operates
with a skeletal staff in about 30 out of a total of 3,000 kecamatens, and
its main effort is directed towards the care and training of children from
broken homes.
Penmas
2.01      The Community Education Division (Penmas) of the Iiinistry of Education,
and Culture has been in existence for some 30 years, with the task of imparting
basic education to the masses in order to promote their effective participation
in Government development schemes. Initially created as a Literacy Campaign
Bureau, it was renamed the Department of Mass Education in 1949 and given the
following program of activities:
(a) development of basic attitudes and skills for
development;
(b) education for social leadership;
(c) cultivation of good reading habits;
(d) education for women; and
(e) education and mobilization of youth for community welfare.
Since 1949, Penmas has provided 48 different types of courses in such dis-
parate areas as bee keeping, rabbit rearing, tanning, weaving, tailoring,
pottery making, mushroom growing, engine repair, home construction, literacy,
numeracy, population, education, nutrition, cooking, sewing, hygiene and child
care.
2.02      Organization.  When Repelita II focussed national attention on the
importance of out-of-school education, the Government moved to institutional-
ize this emphasis by strengthening the Directorate General for out-of-School
Education, Youth and Sports within the Department of Education and Culture,
Penmas is one of three technical directorates within the Directorate General.
It represents the Government's major program for out-of-school education.
2.03      The National Penmas Directorate is organized in four program
sub-directorates, reflecting its major program emphasis:
(a) vocational education, to teach vocational skills usable
in the village;
(b) women's education, which focuses on such fundamental
aspects of home-making as sanitation and family planning;
(c) community education technology development which includes
such topics as Government structure and national development
programs; and



- 37 -
APPENDIX II
Page 5
(d) fundamental education, which focusses on literacy and
numeracy.
In addition, a fifth sub-directorate provides functional support in develop-
ment of community potential resources. This sub-directorate concentrates
on identifying potential village leadership and involving it in village
learning programs.
2.04      At the provincial level, the Penmas officer reports to the Provincial
Director of Education and runs an office which is subdivided into three units:
programs, pre-vocational training and educational technology. This structure
has been instituted in all of Indonesia's 26 provinces. The provincial office
usually has a professional staff of about 20 persons. In the past, most staff
time has been devoted to administrative functions and little time has been
devoted to giving technical support to the Penmas officers in towns, districts
and subdistricts.
2.05      At the district level, the Penmas organization chart indicates a
separate position for each of the sub-directorates of Community Education,
Youth and Sports.  In fact, since the 1975 reorganization of the DEC is not
yet completed, the three positions are often filled by a single person. At
the subdistrict level, there is one position for a Penmas field worker (which
for the same reason is often vacant). The fieldworker reports officially to
the Chief of the Subdistrict Education Office, but he works closely with the
Penmas officer at the district level. The fieldworker is the last link be-
tween the villages and Penmas. Most fieldworkers serve from 15 to 20 villages.
2.06      In 1975 Penmas had a total staff of about 11,000 staff nationwide.
Due to the transfer of personnel resulting from the 1975 reorganization of the
DEC, the present staff is estimated at 6,500.
2.07      Financing.  Penmas' development and routine budget allocations
reached US$2.4 million in 1975/76. This amount was inadequate to expand and
improve the quality of Penmas activities as desired by the Government. As a
result, the Government increased Penmas' development (capital) budget alloca-
tion substantially to US$2.27 in 1976/77. It plans further substantial
increases in the development budget in the next years; the development budget
is projected to reach US$9.5 million in 1981/82. Routine allocations are
expected to increase at about one-half this rate to about US$2.5 million over
the same period.
2.08      Persistent shortages of funds in the past have contributed to
the development of a complex education financing system. Central Government
approval of Penmas' budget allocations necessitates presentation of requests
for fixed numbers and types of courses to which standard unit costs are
applied. The process is time consuming and cumbersome and possibilities
for reallocation during the fiscal year are limited. Penmas' effectiveness
depends largely on its ability to respond quickly to specific, frequently
changing local learning needs. To ameliorate, in part, the rigidity of
regular fiscal procedures, the Government plans to establish a Basic Learn-
ing Fund which has been included in the planned 1979/80-1981/82 development
budget allocations for the proposed Penmas project.



- 38 -
APPENDIX II
Page 6
Coordination of Non-Formal Education
3.01      National Coordination.  In 1975 the Government created the National
Technical Coordinating Committee (NTCC) to provide coordination at the na-
tional level of 12 major government and non-governmental departments involved
in non-formal education. Members include representatives of the departments
of: Home Affairs; Manpower; Religion; Health; Social Affairs; Agriculture;
Industry; and Information. Also included are the Indonesian Scouts and three
major private institutions working in non-formal education, the Women's Move-
ment, the Women's Society (including Kowani) and the Youth Association. The
Committee is chaired by the Director General for Out-of-School Education, Youth
and Sports. In early 1977 a Secretariat, headed by the Penmas Director, was
appointed to serve the NTCC. The decree which established the committee
assigned it the following duties:
(a)  assist the Minister of Education in developing
national policy for non-formal education and
in implementing such policy at different levels
through public and private institutions;
(b)  provide counsel and guidance to improve program
development at different levels and by various
institutions;
(c)  ensure technical coordination of all non-formal education
activities in Indonesia; and
(d)  report periodically to the Minister of Education.
3.02      Local Coordination.  Coordination of non-formal education activities
with each other and with local development programs at the various administra-
tive levels is achieved by the officials of the Department of Home Affairs in
charge of each level. These officials include the provincial governor at the
province level, the bupati at the kabupaten or district level, the camat at
the kecamaten level and lurah, or village chief, at the village or desa level.
Government funds for all programs are channeled through these officials, and
local representatives of all Government programs (including Penmas officers)
must report directly to them. The Department of Home Affairs' coordinating
function is institutionalized and active. At all levels it has established
Sektor K, a cross-departmental advisory body which meets regularly. At the
kecamaten level it has established some 300 Regional Working Units for Village
Development (UDKP) to give assistance to Government agencies carrying out
development programs. At the village level it has established the LSD or village
committee which provides the point of contact between government officials and
the citizenry.



APPENDIX III
- 39 -
PENMAS ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS BY LEVEL
Learning Resources
A m inistration               Staff Training                 and Materials                     Evaluation
Dational            Policy develoment            Management of the             DeveloDment of curricula            Design of a national
Direct;rane        International liaison          training program for          guidelines                          evaluation scheme
Domestic coordination         staff at the national         Allocation of responsibility       Special evaluations
National budgeting            and provincial levels          for development of materials    Midtermt (protect) review
Coordination of pro-                                         at provincial centers
vincial centers                                            Approval of materials for
mass production at the
provincial centers
-rcvincial          Liaison with national         Training of all staff in    Management of development            Feedback, monitoring,
Centers             directorate                   the province                  and production of provincial       follow-up and process
(Balai P<ETMAS)     Liaison with other                                           learning materials                 evaluation of provincial
-rovincial  agencies                                                                           program
Prvvincial budgeting
Coordination of kabu-
naten offices and
PLPMs
?Cabupaten          Liaison with provincial       Field-based training of       Assistance in development of        Data compilation for prc-
(District Office,   center                         fieldworkers (model           provincial learning materials    cess evaluation
-PLM)              Liaison with other kabu-       learning group programs)    during training
paten  agencies             Assistance to field-          Production of occasional
workers in orientation        newsletters for fieldworkers
Kabupaten budgeting, in-       of learning group leaders
cluding control of kabu-
patan learning fund                                        Provision of local PLPM
Learning group followup                                      courses
(nb placement, market-                                    Provision of audio-visual
ing)                                                      materials (Kabupaten office),
Coordination of kecama-                                      vocational equipment
ten offices                                                 (PLPMs) and specialist
teachers (PLPMfs) to support
fieldworkers/learning groups
Kecamaten           Liaison with kabupaten        Orientation of learning       Assistance in development of        Data collection for rrocess
(Fieldworker)        office and PLFM               group leaders (with           provincial learning materials    evaluation
Liaison with other koca-       PLP. support)                 during training
maten agencies                                             Participation in production of
Identificatior. o0  local                                    occasional newsletters for
learning needs                                              learning groups
Organication of learning                                    Delivery of provincial learning
groups                                                      materials
Coordination of learning
groups
Assistance to learning
groups in obtaining
funds, teachers and
materials
Village(Community) Liaison with fieldworkers                                    Development of local learning    Attendance records
(Learning           Liaison with other learn-                                    materials                          Assistance to fieldworkers
Group Leaders)      ing groups                                                 Provision of supplies and learn-  in data collection
Scheduling of learning                                       ing materials to learning
group meetings                                              group teachers and members



- 40 -
APPENDIX IV
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Fellowships and Specialist Services
1.01      Fellowships.  The proposed project includes nine man-years of domes-
tic fellowships and about 37 man-years of foreign fellowships for training
project personnel in areas such as management, materials development, commun-
ications theory and printing. Fellowships are included as follows:
Domestic Training      Foreign Training
No. of    No. of       No. of   No. of
Fellows   Man-mos.    Fellows  Man-mos.
Penmas Directorate
Management                         -          -            3        6
Training/Program Development       -         -            4         4
Materials Development              -          -            1        6
Communications Theory              -         -            I /a    12 /a
Sub-total                                               9        28
Balai Penmas
Management                         -          -            6       12
Training/Program Development       -          -          12        24
Materials Development & Design   6           36            6       36
AVA/Sound/Film                     -          -            6       18
Printing                          24         72           -         -
Sub-total                       30       108           30        90
IKIPs
Pre-service Training .of
Non-formal Educators             -          -          18 /a   324 /a
Total                           30       108           57       442
/a   Formal training at the masters degree level.
1.02      Specialist Services.  The proposed project also includes 81 man-
years of domestic and about 24 man-years of foreign specialist services
required to implement the project. These services would be provided as
follows:



- 41 -
APPENDIX IV
Page 2
Domestic Services      Foreign Services
No. of                 No. of
Special-               Special
ists      Man-mos.    ists      Man-mos.
Penmas Directorate & Penmas
Centers
Non-formal Education               -         -            1        48
Management/project
Implementation                  -          -            *        36
Procurement                        *        36            -         -
Evaluation                        11        96            1        15
Training/Programming               4        192           4        25
Materials Development              *       630            3        72
Equipment Maintenance              *        18            -         -
Training in Equipment
Maintenance and Printing         -         -            1        24
Sub-total                       15 /a    972           10 /a    220
BP3K                                    */b       /b            3        12
IKIPs /c
Pre-service Training
Program Development              -         -            3        54
Total                           15 /a    972           16 /a   286
*    Denotes a contract with an institution or an otherwise undesignated
number of specialists.
/a   Excludes specialists noted by an asterisk above.
/b   Staff of BP3K would conduct a mid-term review of the project.  Since
it is assumed they would conduct the review as part of their regular
work program, they are excluded here.
/c   Bandung, Jakarata, Semarang, Surabaja, Ujung Pandang.
1.03      Details of technical assistance are provided on Tables 1 and 2
below.



- 42 -                                               APPENDIY IV
Page 3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Table 1
FELLOWSHIPS
No. of
Persons      Duration per   Total Man-
Area of               Source of            Type of          to be           Trainee       months of
Training               Trainee             Training         Trained    (in man-months)  Training             Remarks
Domestic
'>aterials           Provincial       Local training in         6             6                36      One person from each
Design               Centers        commercial arts                                                   provincial center to
program                                                          study at Pusat Grafika
Institute (PCI) during
1978
Printing             Provincial      Local training in        24              3                72      Two persons from each
Centers        commercial program                                                provincial center to
or local apprentice-                                             study at PGI during
ship                    _                                        late 1978 early 1979
Total                                                    30                             108
Foreign
Aanagement             Penmas         Study visits             3              2                 6
Directorate
Training/              Penmas         Study visits             4              1                 4
Program             Directorate
Development
faterials              Penmas        Apprenticeship            1              6                 6
Development         Directorate
Communications         Penmas         Formal (MA level)        1             12                12
Theory/Public       Directorate
Relations
.lanagement          Provincial       Study visits             6              2                12
Centers
Training/            Provincial       Study visits            12              2                24
Programming          Centers
:4aterials           Provincial       Apprenticeship           6              6                36
Development          Centers
AVA/Sound/           Provincial      Apprenticeship             6             3                18
Film                 Centers
Non-formal           IKIPsa/          Formal (MA level)       18             18               324      Three persons from
education                                                                                             each of six project
curriculum                                                                                            IKIPs
development,
training, and
evaluation
Total                                                    57                             442
a/ Bandung, Jakarta, Medan, Semarang, Surabaja, Ujung Pandang.



- 43 -                                             APPENDIX IV
Page 4
TECHIiCAL ASSISTASNCE
Table 2
SPECIALIST SERVICES
Inatltatied       Na. of    Duratioa is
Area Specialist      to be Assisted  Specielista  Man-months            Timing              Remarka
Damestic
Eval.ation             Penas                 2           1S        ii/i/77-10/l/S1   research design end statistical
Directorate                                                      analysis specialist for a period
of eise months intermittently and
co-tinuoualy throeghout the project.
Pr-cure-ent            Penmas                -           36        iS/l/77-10/l/79   part-time procurement specialists
Directorate                                                      to assiet the procurenent officer
throughout the first pert of the
proj sot.
Evaluation             Pe-nas               3IV          24         6/l/80-2/l/81    specialists from the BP3K for a
Directorate                                                      period of 8 soothe each to condoct
a mid tern evaluation in collabra-
tion with a similar tear of foreign
Tr-ining/            Direct-rate/            4          192        10/l/77-10/l/S1   trainimg/prograsmimg  pecialiast
Prograsniog         Provincial                                                        throughoot the life of the project,
Centers                                                         one each is the aeas of conity
edacation, family life educa.tion,
basic edacation end vocational
ed-cation.
Materials            Directorate/            -          630        10/1/77-10/1/81   specialists hired en a piece cork
Develop=ent         Provincial                                                        basis for saterial  design cod 1Sy.ot;
Centers                                                         witiag; printing; and adia-vis .o ,I
esftwore development .
Eqaipment            Directorate/            -           18        10/l/77-10/l/81   ongoing periodic  eaintenance of
Maintenance         Provincial                                                        equipnent.
Centers
Evaluation           provincoal              6           54        10/l/77-10/l/81   research design a-d atatistic-l
Centero                                                         analynis speciaiists (one for each
center) fir a period of nine months
intermittently end co-tinuo-nly
throughout the projnct.
Total                            15          972
Foreign
Gi.era.lict in NFE     Penma-                1           48         1/l/78-1/1/82      chief of overall foreign technocol
Directorate/                                                     assiutace counterpar  to Sodonemior
Pr-viccial                                                       ohief of tehnica  oin.tar e witblhi
Cesters                                                         PIU.
Traoinig               Pe-as                 1           18         2/l/78-11/l/78   e-pert in training for initial nine
Dir-ctorate/                                   6/l/79-9/1/79    months with two followup visits over
Provscial                                      6/1/SD-9/l/80    course of second and third years of
C-nters                                                         three months duratioa each.
Troining               Pe-as                 3            7         6/1/78-3/1/80    short term  trafioig  pe'ialiat  fo
Directocate/                                                     three wk w         nrkshps oe Per yer
Pr-vrsiil                                                        for the first three years.
Materials               Pepmas               1           24         2/1/78-2/1/80    design/Iyout specialist for initial
Development         Dir-ctorate/                                                      two years.
Provincial
Centers
Materlals               Pemas                 1           24         2/l/78-2/l/88     audio/slides/film  specialist for
teveioprent          ir-to-atl/                                                       initial twn years.
Provinc ial
Centera
Materials               Pe-as                 1           24        2/l/78-211/8i      co-oonicatios specialit for -o-rall
Developnrot         Dir-ctorate/                                                      or-gnization and =anagement of
Provi-c-al                                                       materials developmect for initial
Centers                                                         toO year.
Evaluatios             Pen=os                1           15         2/l/78-11/i/78   specialist in Ri-earch Design and
Director-te/                                   6/1/79-9/1/79    Statistical caalysis fin on initial
Prvinclial                                     6/l180-9/l/f80    nise moths with two fell ooup  isits
Center                                                          00cr the course of the second cod
third years of three months dnration
each.
Evaloatios             BP3K                  3           12         3/1/81-9/1/81    specialists is co-nsity edocti',
econo=ics, cod research design/data
onalysis for a period of four months
each (two visits of two month
duratioa) to anderrade a mid-tern
avaluatio- of the project.
-anagement/          Directorate/            -           36        10/l/77-lOtl/81   coosoltant firm to provide
Projet             P   tr-i-ic                                                       intermittent workshops i  pro-jent
pleacario-           cocert                                                           nonagemsect and itplemeotatioc.
TrEiqiag in           Directorate/            1           24       10/1/77-10/1/79   maintenance of printing eqoipmeet
Equipment           Proineial                                                         cod training in -se of printing
MPintetngor ad       Cente                                                            presses and mobile printing omits.
Printing
Pee-service          Si.IKIPs (Nodes,        3           34        10/l/77-10/1/78   NFE ge-eralists, one per too IKIPs,
Toramiing           SeBdng,JSkrtra,                                                   for as initial one year period each
Program              earagS.irobaja.                                                  to be followed op with short teen
De-lpuest           Ujoog Pandang)                                                    visits of 3  nonths each over the
second and third years of the project.
Total                             161-        286
a/  Inluded iron costs cad ions nerd1 maS,-moth. imdicated helow since it is es-sd that SP3K stuff
would conduct the evaluation  as a part of their regular functio.
b/  Esoides specrielsa in prvolve reet, dt-maeniagevelapn ip           d eqe ipe nt maistes
0/  tsoIaden persossel involved is project management and impl-emetrtio   workshops.



- 44 -
APPENDIX V
Page 1
SCHEDULE OF APPOINTMENT OF STAFF
1.01      Balai Penmas.  Staff of the Balai Penmas would be appointed
in accordance with the following schedule:
Jayagiri and      Remaining
Kebon Jeruk    Balai Penmas
Director's Office
Director                                      6/77            8/77
Secretary                                   10/77             1/79
Technical Secretariat 1/
Division Chief                                6/77            1/79
Budget & Finance Officer                     10/77            3/79
Accountant                                   10/77            3/79
Procurement & Supplies Officer               10/77            3/79
House Manager                                10/77            3/79
Field Liaison Office
Division Chief                                6/77            8/78
Research Officer                             10/77            9/78
Assistant Research Officer                    2/78            3/79
Records Officer/Statistician                  2/78            9/78
Field Worker/Statistician                     2/78            3/79
Equipment & Materials Utilization
Supervisor                                 2/78            9/78
Educational Materials Development
Division Chief                                6/77           11/77
Designer/Illustrator                         10/77           11/77
Printed Materials Production Specialist   10/77              11/77
Audio Technologist                           10/77           11/77
Communications/Media Specialist             10/77            11/77
Photographer                                 10/77            1/79
Press Operator                               10/77            6/78
Assistant Press Operator                     12/77            6/78
Cutter/Binder                                12/77            3/79
1/   In addition to staff listed, the technical secretariat would include
four clerks, four drivers, three cooks, one kitchen assistant, three
waitresses/servers, four janitors, two laundrymen, one storekeeper,
two guards and four gardeners/groundskeepers.



- 45 -
APPENDIX V
Page 2
Jayagiri and      Remaining
Kebon Jeruk    Balai Penmas
Programs
Division Chief                                6/77            9/78
Basic Education Specialist                   10/77            1/79
Family Life Education Specialist             10/77            1/79
Vocational Training Specialist               10/77            1/79
Special Programs Officer                     10/77            1/79
Program Coordinator                          10/77            1/79
Personnel Training and Development
Division Chief                                6/77            6/78
Training Program Officer                     10/77            6/78
Training Materials Specialist                10/77            6/78
Senior Trainer                               10/77            6/78
Junior Trainer                               12/77            6/78
Training Follow-up & Upgrading               10/77            6/78
1.02      District and Subdistrict.  All staff of the district (kabupaten)
offices and subdistrict (kecamaten) fieldworkers would be appointed by April
1979.



- 46 -
APPENDIX VI
Page 1
PROPOSED PEN14AS LEARNING AIND MIATERIALS
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
The Penmas Learning Program
1.01      The Penmas learning programs under the project would be of two
types: (1) unstructured and (2) structured.  The structured program will
have as its content: literacy, numeracy, family life education, civics and
community leadership, and pre-vocational skills. The program will consist
of courses or training using a standardized curriculum. Courses will be of
three to six months in length and meetings, a total of approximately 144
hours. Lecture, discussion, demonstration and guided practice will be the
methods used. The materials will include pamphlets, audio-visual aids and
tool kits. The unstructured program will have an open-ended learning group
format. Each group will determine its own learning activity by reaching
consensus on the highest priority of their learning needs. Leaflets, photos,
booklets, cassettes or radio programs that illustrate a problem situation or
life incident will be used as discussion starters. A leader will be avail-
able to facilitate the discussion process.
Program Objectives
1.02      The learning content would be broken down into two components:
(a) a core minimum learning package covering four general
areas as follows:
(i)  Pre-vocational Skills:  knowledge and skills associated
with agriculture, animal husbandry, home craft, motor
repair, electrical repair, and home improvement (i.e.,
carpentry, sanitation system, catchment water system,
etc.).
(ii) Family Life Education: family planning, health,
nutrition, childcare, and knowledge for improving
the quality of family life.
(iii) Civics and Community Leadership: Panca Sila (state
philosophy), local government, go to royong (com-
munity cooperation in development), and religion.
(iv) Basic Education: literacy, numeracy, and related
elementary learning concepts.
(b) Specific learning content dependent upon specified learner needs.
Examples of this might range from mat weaving to pump repair.



- 47 -
APPENDIX VI
Page 2
Learning Mfaterials Development and Production
1.03      The six Balai Penmas would be the primary point for materials
development and production (Annex 5). The National Directorate would
allocate the responsibility for development of materials among the centers.
It would provide curriculum guidelines and approve materials prior to mass
production. Users of materials would be involved in their development,
and all Penmas staff would be involved during training programs. Initially,
the center at Bandung would take on the responsibility for developing
materials, but the other provincial centers would share in this function
as they acquire capabilities in materials development and production. At
all times materials development would be regarded both as a process of
creating instructional materials and as a training and learning process
for participants. Testing of materials would be emphasized.
1.04      The provincial centers would produce the following materials
to support the above learning program:
(a) Packets A, B, C: Packet A consists of about 100 titles
(pamphlets) which include basic learning themes for
illiterates, neo-literates, and primary school dropouts.
The objective of the packet is to enable the learners to
acquire adequate knowledge, skills, and attitudinal sets
requisite to development. Packet B and Packet C have
yet to be developed but are to be primarily for dropouts
from Junior High School and dropouts from Senior High
School respectively. These titles will cover a wider-
range of topics across the four primary content areas
specified above.
(b) Other skill/information specific pamphlets and leaflets:
The centers would produce other pamphlets and leaflets
to support learner determined needs in the context of
type two learning programs, or unstructured learning
group activities. These could include leaflets on
such matters as rat irradication, grain storage, water
pump repair or some other highly specialized learning
content.
(c) Supplemental reading: The provincial centers would
acquire materials for small travelling library boxes
for villages participating in literacy programs.
These materials would be purchased from the commer-
cial market and would range from comic books to
newspapers and family magazines. The major criteria
would be that the material be interesting reading for
entertainment purposes, thereby providing reading
practice for new literates.



- 48 -
APPENDIX VI
Page 3
(d)  Discussion starters:  Discussion starters, or one page
incidents, photos or stories, would be produced and
disseminated to learning group facilitators for the
propagation of the unstructured program.
(e)  Posters and pictoral series:  The provincial centers would
also produce a number of series of posters covering partic-
ular themes, e.g., childcare, nutrition, or sanitation.
Pictoral series along similar themes would also be produced
on 20 x 25 cm cards. The posters would be constructed so
that they could be inserted in a flip chart device for
quick illustration.
(f)  Audio-visual materials:  Cassette tapes and sound slides
would be produced covering a range of educational themes
within the scope of the content described above.
(g)  Training manuals:  The provincial centers would also be
responsible for producing manuals to provide training
and guidance to all levels of Penmas staff. The manuals
would vary in depth and variety for each group but they
would in general cover the following topics:
(i) Learner needs assessment.
(ii) Community instructional resource assessment.
(iii)  Learning group organization.
(iv) Facilitation of group discussions.
(v)  Evaluation and monitoring.
(vi) Planning, programming and budgeting.
(vii)  Supervision and reporting.
(viii)  Materials Development and production.
(h)  Miscellaneous materials:  The District Office and PLPMs
would produce occassional newsletters for Penmas field
workers. Field workers, learning group leaders and
learners would produce simple mimeo instructional
materials, informational items, handmade posters
and signs.



- 49 -
APPENDIX VII
CRITERIA TO BE APPLIED TO SELECT PROJECTS FOR
SUPPORT FROM THE BASIC LEARNING FUND
I.   A project would be awarded higher priority in accordance with
the extent to which it:
(a)  creates productive skills;
(b)  generates income;
(c)  relates to other local development projects;
(d)  benefits the least educated and poorest members
of a community;
(e)  involves large numbers of people;
(f)  represents an innovation in non-formal education;
(g)  originates, in and is supported by, the community
it would involve;
(h)  utilizes local resources;
(i)  inheres a multiplier effect;
(j)  could be replicated;
(k)  assists a locality previously unsupported by the
fund; and
(1)  is supported by local government.
II.   Disbursement from the fund would be contingent upon:
(a)  joint approval of the project, including a detailed
list of costs for program inputs (simple equipment,
materials and/or instructors), by the district Penmas
office and the bupati; and
(b)  evidence of a minimum local commitment of at least one
half of total costs of the activity in money or kind.
III.   No learning activity would be supported by an allocation
from the Basic Learning Fund exceeding Rp 100,000 (US$240).



- 50 -
APPENDIX VIII
Page 1
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURE FOR AWARD OF FELLOWSHIPS
I. Introduction
Fellowship training for Penmas staff to improve their capacity
in managing Penmas reform programs constitutes an important part of the
technical assistance component of the Non-formal (Sixth) Education Project
(Penmas). This fellowship training will be undertaken within the country
(domestic fellowships) as well as outside Indonesia (foreign fellowships).
To insure proper selection of candidates, it is necessary to set
out criteria as a basis for awarding fellowships.
II. Criteria for Fellowship
Fellowships will be awarded to:
a. Penmas staff
b.  IKIP teaching staff in project IKIPs (Jakarta, Medan, Bandung,
Semarang, Surabaya, and Ujung Pandang),
who possess the following qualifications:
II.1. Had work experience in the field:
a. for Penmas staff - have worked in Penmas, preferably in some
technical function for at least 2 years.
- have shown loyalty and dedication to Penmas.
- have good understanding about Penmas programs.
b.  for IKIP staff   - have taught for at least 2 years, preferably
those from the Department of Social Education
or other departments relevant to Penmas.
II.2. Have potential to develop in themselves such qualities as:
a. interest and care for other people,
b. intellectual curiosity,
c. enthusiasm to work with others, and
d. interest to do and learn new things.



- 51 -
APPENDIX VIII
Page 2
II.3.  MIaximum age:  45 years
Priority will be given to younger people with potential and
promising futures. However, persons through the age of 45
will be considered for fellowships provided that after training
he/she has several years more to contribute to Penmas before
retirement.
II.4. Pass Language Test
To really benefit from the training program abroad, one must
have a working knowledge of the language of instruction.
Therefore, active command of written as well as the oral
(spoken) language in which instruction is to be received
is a pre-requisite. For this purpose, a language test will
be administered to candidates.
TI.5. Pass Test on Penmas
Prospective candidate must have a fairly good understanding of
Penmas, its historical development, current programs (including
the Non-formal Education project being implemented with the
assistance of the IBRD) and problems, and their perspective in
the future.
II.6. Fulfilled standard civil service requirements, such as:
a. has served for at least 2 years
b. has obtained State security clearance
c. is in good standing
II.7. Willing to sign contract agreement
Penmas staff who will be awarded fellowships must be willing to
sign a contract stipulating that:
a. he/she shall always act befitting an honorable Indonesian
citizen;
b.  after participating in a fellowship program, he/she is
bound to work for Penmas at least until July 1984;
c. after completion of a fellowship training, he/she shall not
refuse position and post designated for him by the Director
of Penmas anywhere within the six project provinces;
d. he/she shall repay all expenses incurred for his/her
preparation for and during fellowship training should he/she
decide to quit Penmas on his own will without knowledge of
and special permission from the Director of Penmas.
Failure to comply by the above stipulation will be considered a breach
of contract liable for legal action taken by the Penmas Directorate.



- 52 -
APPENDIX VIII
Page 3
III.  Field of Study
Fellowships will be awarded only for study related to
(a) Penmas activities and (b) the future job responsibilities within
the Directorate General of Non-formal Education and Sports (or the
IKIP) of the proposed fellow.
IV.  Procedure of Awarding Fellowship
Nomination of candidates for fellowships will be done
as follows:
a. at the national level, nomination by the Director of Penmas
b. at the provincial level, nomination by the Director of the
Balai Penmas
c. at the IKIPs, nomination by the Rector.
Selection of candidates will be made by a selection team of at least
five members of the national PIU appointed by the Project Director.
All selections for fellowships outside Indonesia must be approved
by the Project Director.



53 -
APATIVr, EDI)CATInN  INDICAirm                                                                          ANNEX  I
C JULY 22,1977
anatosaxaxzssamsg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IL         I           s              I            I                       I            I           I              I         I                I                I           I         II
I          i CNP/  t  %  GNP    tZ  TnIALit    OF  PUBLIC  i                            I           I              IPRI.  IAY.PRI.    I                        I           iSEC    II
I          ICAPrTAI  DrvoTm            PuBuc  I  EDUCATION                 jLITIFR-  t  PRI.. oCO4PLE-  tSTU-  iSCH.TEACHiPROGRESS-i  SEC.  W U-  II
I          -   AT    t  Tn  EI)U.i'  FXP.  I  PECURRFNT                    SACY         IENonLLiTtlIN              iDENTSiSAI-ARY  INtInN  RATE  tENAnLLIDENTStHIGHERI
I          IMARKET:  (PLIRLIC1DFVr)TF0IE'XP  ALLOCATEOt   RATE  tRATIn  IRATE  FnR$PER    :RFLATION  iFROM  PRI.tRATIO  iPER    iFNROLLi
I111W.  -TInICFSI Fxrl .              t   TO       -         TC1%          SC%  OF    t  NFT    t"RT.SCH,2tFArHi  Tn  GNP/  iTM  SEC.    I NET    iTEACH-  PATIOt
YI'tMIl Lq.:  (LISS) I nNi-Y I   I   fnLI.  IPPT.  SFC. HI.IADULTS) c  (2)    sCYCLEM                                  tER       t  CAPTTA    I    W              i  M        tER       I  M        I
I          I
(q)I    (1,11
(6)           7 7    r    (s)                                   I  C I I         I( t 2 I    I C 1 3 I  I f t 4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCFD
; -1; 7 R 7;          71      7.51E  11,11111IF        it. 3       g, 9        410    ?50    ?00         99          98            Q'i          26            2. 0           99           5 I          t 9        8.00
C A N A f) A           7 > P". SC  t. , 19OF            7. 7       1 9 . ti     30 .   Na        1 9      9A          89            qs           211           2. t)          99            82          1 7        9.00
GFR-ANY  F . 17r P. 7,1   h.. or  f, , 76"E             it . P    I 'I . -      ...   74**  ah            q9          q I           9q           33            . . .          99           9 1         ?2         t7.00CY
J A I'A N              7 1I 0 97F  'I , 0 7OF           A . N     2 0,7         It 1)   I A      I P.     99          9QD           q q r.       291C          2. 0           qqc           94D        ?DC        28. 00f)
NFTHr L- A NLIS       7>    1 XSC  S,?941E             8 . r,    lq,IG         it ;I    lir    1 C)      99          q r)          9 r,         2 9           3 . 0          9 7           7 3        20         11 . 0 0
N F W  Z F A L A jr)  7't      ;11 L'I , I I OF        S . 7     . . I         IQ      4      29        99          q9            99           26            . . .          99           67           1 9       24 . 0 (
Nnri WA Y              7 ,      'I . OL  S,86AF         7 . n      I S '?       -im     ?3       1 3       99         99            98           2(            I . q          gq            76          1 4       1 1 . 0 0
swcr)r I]              71      n . L  7. P'loF         A.q       I (, . 0      36      1 4      1 3      99          99            go           1 7           ...            90           as          I 0       30. 0 0
u . K                  7  95.9F  X,IQOF                1, . I    I :2 j        o.   39        22        98          99            ...          26            a.0            . . .         63          1 7       1 1. 0 0
I.q.A.                7 12i 1 .917 6,01F                          I IS . 4     . . .   73**  27           99         99            qq           2-;Ij         P.0            ...           93          1 9LJ    29. 0 0
EIIRI mr
C-r-                     9 .0I: ;-, "qnF                     1 %I        54Y    29Y    t4y          F12A       91i y         ...           32Y         . . .           IOA           58Y         43Y       11 . 0 0
1 RC L A N r,          7       A. 11  ;b, ;?oF          r, . I    I 3,9D       4 11   III Y     t4v       9A          97           QQA           IS          . . .            q-, A        79          1 9         7.OOA
POR TOGA I             T >     1) .0f,I 3 ftE           ...                     . . .       . . .     . . .  . . .    91 yy                                                                65XY                    7  boy
PI)MANIA               7q      I  I     t  itt) (V      A . n       6,11       ltb     119       13       98          totx                                                    W            49                    I O: 0 0
-;PATN
71   'R.It' PI, I QOF            ?.'IS    11.2A         119Y    ?2Y    ISY         94A         911A         ...           39A         . . .            . . .        29A         30          6.00A
ArRfCA
L      I
;-;             7    1 11.7        778          7.9                     4IG    12G    IBG          30         76            h,E          IIPF          6.OG           119E          17         25          4 . 0 0
A G1
BFNI%                  71      A. Ot'      I ?fIF           3     3?, (O        41      23       1 0       1 1        32xg          70A          q(R         25. OR           113A           79        19FI        0.44cy
1311T.SwA N A          7 1         7       P94          S. 0      20.o          3A      20      t 13      25          70Y           7 r,         39            1; . 0         24            t3x        I a         0.30Y
RIIRIINj              -1      I.I,          n 9        P . r,    19.99         47R    41P    12R          In         pow           30 7         is          I 0. 0           1 4            2X        is          I0
C AMFI' 11w            719     7. 'I-      2rftF        r, . Q     ?O,O         NAY    ?9Y    17Y          . . 1      74            . . .        `;I Dv      . . .            . . .          9         73ey        IL qocy
C . A .17              7 ,    I . IL      ) I OIF     I.ON    ?0,0           56       11,9               . . .      64CY          25           6licy       . . .            I 8            13C Y     ?TRY        0.07Y
CHAn                           'I 'IL      I OnE        N. "      I 0 , a      7A       12                ts         pgxsy         30           690Y        tS. 11             8            PXRY    10            O.OIBY
CON1,11                                    117n         6.11      IQ,-S        no       32      Pt        rIn?       tI3X           63           6 S           6. 0           49           33X         112         3.40
Er Yf'                                     2A.)         r, . 3      . , .      29       36      24        40          74%           11 S         40          . . .            64           19X         28         t I . 0 0
E T H I II P I A              P7. >I:      InOF         3.1       20  A         42      ?9       1 A        7         t7c           112          r, 1)         3.o            6 3            2         3 0         0.20
G A Pi 1) N            IN      t) .9    t  06OF         5.n       20,6         2r,        9      1 t       . . .     I F14XBY       21I          116C          S.LL           18A          20C         ?IC         I .40cy
GAMATA                 76      'I.S        170          3.3       1 1 S         46      ?S        6        t f)       21            90           3 3         ...              92            1 3        ?5
GHANA                  7 f     1) . ilu    I ;OF        11.7      74  1IDR    I A f)   ISO    2 NO         ...        56)(C V       6?           30C Y       . . .            1 4           1 1 y      I 6cy
rVIINY  CIIA:ir        7                                                                                                                                                                                          0:;;By
6 .111'    lb(F         6.3       211.7         21BY  INRY  IIY             9A        52            -7A          116                                        In          75             20BY
KENYA                  I N    i gi-    ;IA (OF          6 . /I N    27.0       6 3      I t     I 1       41)         7 3                        II(                                       1 2         ? 3             03BY
L Est I r Hi I         J.;                                                                                                          ...                                       ; "I ,                               ti :
I          I IIOF      1?.Or    23              49      t8      PO        /I 4)       9 11          so           112           7  t) N        $1 t          14)        ?6          1 .0 0
?.II      1 3.2        2T       I -i    2 0       73          S8           ...           3-i          2.                           I ?         26          t . I 0 A y
MADAGASCAR                     -q6         IAO          3.?       V, I         it,   ?4         25        4(          68Y           't A         (13         Is.0             4 9            9x        ;`6         1    0
M A 1, A W T           7 1     'tq         fift         I. I      PO ")         ...         ...     ...   P9          9fix         60            So            7.o            40             4 X       20          0.26CY
MALT                   7 r     v.7F         9or         A.PM    33,01'         49F    17F    ISF           InF        ;-?)fF        . . .        11 RF       9.SF             lioF           6x        P I           . . .
MA t R I I A N r A     Jo                  pqnF         11 q      ? I . 0       . . .                      I fl       I IS v                     ? 1*
.-;L                                                  ...         ...                             . . .                      . . .          ...            3         P4
MAUNT III)$            7.>     o . 9 L'    qfi or       N .7      1 i  71)r)   7 1      1 0       4       80          86            qq           11                           ...          3t          30            :;7CY
-11111ILro             7 1 1 h .1          II0          1; . uc    I 1, , s     44      14 7'     9       p 4 T       94X           2 1          3 7           . . .          I 1           13X        P I         2.00
N I r f- R I A         7 1 7't . OC        N;)7F        I . P N
464   >416   204           ...        39ycy                      34cy          ...            ...            4         POCY        0,37CY
P W A 11 D A           IN                   AoE         A .2C    ?A,OD          .                         23          S?            ...          s I           . . .          ...            2         3 3         0.23cy
SENFGAL                7 1                 All F        1.11IN    ? 7 , -, D R    I;;                      I IL       38Y           . . .        46            . . .          . . .        itx         25          1.71CY
SICilPA  LC(INF    7 it           ql-      I qnF        3. 1      2-S 11       I 1      36      30         115?       34X           /I r,        32            4.01E          68           13X         P 1         0.53ey
%1'MAI TA              7v      N . "       I an         3.70    10,80           1190    t6G    tqq        90?         I 4 v         86           35          t(.0             6A             3         1 5         0. I 0
SIJDAN                 7 ?    tr.?L        ?IMF         11.15     1 3 . ?      4 A      24 9    2B        t r,        38            7 5          4 S           4.(            PS           I I         2 0         1.23Y
SWA7rLA1t0             7 r     41 . 9      ITO          I . 8       -           it A    3 t      1 9      -in         7 3           7 1          3 A           I . A            1          24          22          1 .00
TAN7ANTA               7 1 1. IC           I 4,nF       S. IN    1 7 , 0        36      ...    1 2        63          144)e         . . .        49            . . .            7            2         ?IC         0 .30
TIJNTqTA               71        .9r,    &S"r           6. 3      2 3,11       IT       113     1 A       rc,         72            8 I          III           6 . 0          3i           14          ? 1         3.0 0
UGAN114                7n     I. It-    ;!IlAF          r . PN    I 7.6CP    qOO    ;?2n    25M           25A         48xcy         . . .        36            . . .          14A            4xcy   ? I            0.58gy
UPI-FIR  Vill TA       72      -,.SC        9(IE        /I. 0     ?N,Q         6r       10        6         9         If            ...          45          ta.o             20             2         23          0.01BY
ZAIIZE                 71    711.11,       ISAF         5.7rN  21 .3C           `;/IC    17C    29C        1 r.       61            3A           11 11 A       6.0            4 s            a         24          0.96my
Z A M R I A            7 1     1. . .      1, 10        S. 3      1 'I .        14      I a     I A       43          88            80           47            9.0            20            1 3        P2          1 . 0 0
CENiPAL AmERicA Alto rHr CARIRREAN
cn I
7       i            4flE                  ??.T         117      11    I, 2       aq          56cy         65            2q           3.9             136          22CY        PS         t2.11CY
0nmTNTCAN  QFII.7>             11.6[       6rOE         I . 0     1 3")         42      24      22        r, t        so            1 7          r, 11         3,OD           63            1 3.5      24          7. 0 0
EL  SAL VAr)rIR        Jr      t.qr        IIOE         11. 6     ?.i,A        6t         1)    22        608         69C           . . .        39cy          . . .          39            13XC       ?ICY        4.35BY
GIIA TE-AI.A           7,;     r . Nt-    rA0E          j . q     1 6, (       sr,      23      t fl      47          614           26           IS            I . 1)         69             a         ?s          4.09Y
HA I r 7               7,1    11 . 5c      1 7OF        0.9         6,6171    6 1       t I       8       208         P2            2 r, T       11 r,         S. 0           r. 0           3         23          I.CID?
HOW' 1, " A S          7r      ?.Q         xqo          A . I G    11,IG        62      1 5     22       61 E         76            30           39            3. 0           an            I I         I 7        4.0 0
JAMATCA                I 11    ?. 111:7.1I OOE          6.SY    1 9. 7          NIY    2?Y        7Y      96         to6XY          . . .        lip                                        32XY         9         4  79Y
mExIc,1                7 -1   r7 . 9L-tflqOF            2 . 0I,     9,3         sti     24       1 2      76          7 1           I 1          46                                         1 9          3         6  32CY
NICARAGIIA                                                                                                                                                                    ;V                       ?I
74      ?.0E        67OF         2 . r,    in'?         61       IN      t 3       r7          6 r,         2 1           37           2. 0            93            1 7        2 4         7. 0 0
TPINTnAl t  T.  7 6           1.111)tP 7S F            3. 11 N    10.90       r, 0 E    2SE    1 3C      gnC           8 I         Ql           34            ?. 00          119          44          75            ...
SnUTH AMERICA
A       I I SF       r, . 0     1 7 'SF                                             t7B          29D          2"            9F                                        IIDY
BRAZTL                                                                                                        A       t,                             C Y
CHTLE                  79  1 n7 . 11   11 PI 0          r, . ft    I I :1       `I?i  'i;E                 64           6G          . . .        27            ...                          2 46 'G'       c
7     111.11C       FlInF        4.6Y    I-) .6A Y    KhY    14Y    36Y            . . .     I I I VOY                    37FIY
COLI)MR1 A             J.)   ?x . I L-                  fl . 0     1 0  q        r,     I a      ao        7 3        67            2n
E C U A DOR                                                                                                                                       16                                        1, 7,
7;?    0, qF        'IS IF       I.T       27,7C        450Y  4,10 YtOny    69                 72            . . .        IA                                        I a         1 4         4.97BY
GIIYNNA                7 1                 von          S . AN    I /I , 7Q               r,     1 4       83A        9?X           Nq
P A R A r, I J A Y     7;1                                                                                                                       3 3                                        62X         ? 4         t.00
P          r I o                     I .0                                                           26            31)          1              6 5           1 7         1 2         5.00
PERIJ                  7 1 1I              7 I n F      q.S       2 ti , I 1,    r, 0   22       1 S       7 2         so           la            39 D Y       -k . L)        70            30          23DY    12. 0 0
VENF7')ELA             73     1161  1  (6 OF            it . 6     1Q.9         log    28n    3 r, 9       77A        a t           . . .                      2.11           ...           33                    12.63CY



-54 -
COMPARATIVE  EDUCATION  INDICATOs   (CONTOl                              ANNEY I  PAGE 2
I   I        I          0         I                           I                                                             
I       I GNFy/ IS GNP   It TnTALIS   OF PUBLIC 0                        . I         aPRI. IAV.PRI.   I               I        alEC  aI
I   ICAPITA: DEVOTEDtPUPILIC I EDUCATION    :LITER- I PRI. ICOMPLE- :STU- ZSCH.TEACH:PRDGRESS-: SEC. :3ST1- I                              I
:Al  aTO EDt'.:  FXP. I RECURRENT    SACY              IENRDLLITION        :DENTStSALARY IN:ION RATE  IENROLL:DENTSflIIGHERI
:mARKFT,  (PURLIC0DEvOlTEDIFXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO IRATE FORtPER   aRELATION aFRON PRI.miRATID) IPER   SENROLL:
yl:POP. SPRICESm  ErX'.    TO        Ia     TO:       at(  OF   : NET   IPRI.SCH.tTEACH:  TO GNP/ :T') SEC.   I NET   :TTACH- RAT1IO
It:8I LS.:  (USS)l ONLY)   a  FDU. iPRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS)a  (2    :CYCLE(KIaEP    I CAPITA   a   MX                    a CX1)  TER      a02 
a1 I .            a         a1)               a        a) a9                                      (it)  1I1          2    1          5    
ASIA AND) I)LrANIA
AENANI_ST_A_N  7,i16I.X                      .in           9T   ZIP   lAP    10       260       24        a3t       91.0        78         80      71       1 I.0 0
BAN-LiDrsH       741  76.?C    tOn(       1.?    20 .7.       .     .           23S     56r       ..        R         ..          .        230      78
CHINA (TA [ A"I 74   147U    R IflE       to. P   111,     ZR   '1    22       8l2     98C        94        AltI    P1;0         04          C      76      2O.OOC
INDIA            71  s4.11       't i E  2.AVY             .....,.        . 29         79r        . ..      L1IlA     . . .       . ..     28X0     70A Y    4.OOAY
N'lt!NEOsI A    7 '  I'hF     ;7,?4     X.QFE   t,Or    69    2 1    1 0     608      79X        t   I A    I1      7.O0        52        :90      1 I      2. 00
IRAN             74X It'14.IFt.?5 AF      3. I    7,6      50 8   I0p   178    I n     77        7~1 A     3 ?        9.1        RAtA      214      42       4J.32CY
I RAI)           7'   t.t 1   ,0ftI  tE   '. 7    I26,104R.76..              .  ;#     e1CY       . ..      27         .          .        260EV  716        6.28CR
JOnRnAN          7;   2.141    'tIOF     7 .0     R.R      42    15   73       1 ,9    RiO        76        38        9.0        ssox               72       4 0 0
Ki'R-E7, A4 49.                 414I f    7.14    16,OR   64    ' 11     i     97D    I oAr       98I       v  I? .4S            77        915      38       7.11
LErPA N'N        7'    '. tL  I."76F      3.1    I A.14    !9   'tO    10      AS       All       69        19        2 .0       613       26U      75      23. 00
MALtqY StIA      714  11 .7     6814     6 .'I   ?R.o    '114   A I    It      Ant      146F      90        37        1.ttD      S3F       't4r     77F      3.OOF
O-AN7'   9 ).7Eirnr It*60               7N    3,8      Q6     -            Z       2'4X      99        I33       7.0         ..    0. 4.40       9
PAKISTAN,        74  609.0      t 50F     1 .6   1t67      '04                                                                                                :; 
24  A     ?!       147X      so        39        2.0        ...        170    1Is        .0
PA0'1I  N.G.           7'.6    4114 A     .      26 ,      18    1 6    74     1?       s7?       7IP      tiI            1.0    90        1707    704       0.90?
PHITLOI)1 'INC1FS    7I t.IC   kinE     P.1I    t1,')    73    34r     7      8 A7   3040        . ..      3 4      19S.0       .,.       4'I      . ..    73 .0 0
5100 DrA1  C     7' )'I   ;-,"t14E       i.t I II.7        'UtI  II    II     75A      Q6Y        770       3 3       . ..       99A       97Y      70       L 8.2 5Y
STRAT A          70    7 .'I       t,o   1.6   o614        394  74    26       53       89        70        39        2.0 U      92        '15      71     I7.0 0
THAIl-ANn        74  '111.71'   IYOF     A .o NF 20 * F     ~-z  149  15       A.      870       91;C      37P        3.tII U    9ttc      210      70;1     2. 00
TItIRKr Y        7' 17.0 n       1        ...    I 3,01iDR.. ..........    10'IOCY    ...                   IIIDY     . ..       . ..      Z7OxY   P770 Y    S. 3 13Y
YEmEN            73i    'IL r   IROF     0.1      I t, A   nlP ~ ZP  231'      1 30     390       lB        36        4,.0(      75         70      1 9      0.OSRY
YEMEN I'         I,t  I'   tL    '7(E     7.3A  t7.A       79    I?            If1      700       II        2Q       ['. 0       149       tar    710        0.08AY
NiJMMEiri  IF CO-NAOTFS!                  76     114      71    70)  714      7?      140       46         79         'i13      9 6       04       76        74
RANGE:                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.1;-  (13.8-   (24- (0-   (0-    c5-~   (10-  (17-  (1 9-    (1.8l-   (17-       (./I-    (9-      (.01-
17.4P )  32.1.3)        1 S?)  140)    98)      1840)    99 )       69, 0      PS.R)    99)         715. 0)      3)  23.0)
GOVT 1 LI'S? U"I't'l  ?    4~~~~~~~~~   27,11 r 41;   10    2 2  74      87a       71,       116          8        84(       29       7)6      6 .0
M?0 1A7                   14I.0     1, 4    144   21;   14     10rf     7!        40s       38 a4                 63        1 6      7 3     2.00o
''Lii                    3.1     1 3.9     389   IA,   t2      2 1      52        340       3 3         I        21         9       P70       . 9
S Y m  (L Se..   "A  '1"AVATI 081                A :1 9711 OR AEFORE           M=CURRENT PRICES                            SOIIRCES:
-'AGNTlIIIlL NoT, nP NFGLIGORLE 14:1171                           NoGDP-------
r GiI5T1t4IAgl F                    c=97                          P:INCL0IDIN'G FOIREIGN AID)                  COLUMNS: I AND 2 WORLD PIANK ATLAS
*   ULYL lI'S RAPT-TIMF STUDnENTS 0:1971                          0:CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                             OR IRRTn MISSIONS
**c''oT47iET WITH PRIMARY            P1i97ft                       R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION  CpnOE) ONL.Y                  1 TO 14 1840' MISSIONS
*14*    nFl! RELVIEW                 F:1979                        SuM4aC  AND STATE GnVT. ONLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
0:11476                      TzEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                         STATISTICAL
U:PUBLIC ONLY                                                    YEARRnOK
V=11NCLUDING PRIVATE EOPENnITLIRE
X=MNCLUDING OVERAGED) STItIEFN?S
YOUNESCO SnOIRCES
cnm'ATTArIvE EntiLATI 1N DATA ARE !UsEFUL- iN THE E.VALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SY3TEMS AND ANALYSIS OF OFLATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEAELO-II'ME'll' HITf"FN vAPIOIIS COiUNTRIES. HI)WFEAE1,ON THE BASIS OF THE PrFSENT DATA.CROSS_NA(TONKAl COMPARISDN SHr)JLD RE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CiJTIlAN. 'IATA `IfrSk'FD7TON THE ABOVE TARtr H AVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY VY THE RANK MISSIONS TRim' GOAEONMENT, sOURCES: THE
RFMAINDE71 ATIU 410FF ESTIMATES OR 'OATA FROMH UNESCO. FFFORTS HAVE RFEEN MADE TO STANIDARDI7F DEFINITION'S AND .IT"IN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY (F T'L DATA. NFVFRtHEIFSS,,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESIFCTS ANDl THF RlANK IS OAOR%lNG TI IMPROVE  THEM
PRnGRE-SjvrtyA tIN T[ I'ECAS,T"N fIF ITS OPERATIONAL WORKX. TN THE tt5IF OIF THESE DATA. THE rOI[LnOMING r)iIALIFICATOCONS SHOULD RE BORNE IN
MINT:
(I)"EO)IJCAT("1N" An DEFITNED IN THE TABLE INrLUDEs ALL eDUCATION ANDO TRAINING. FORMAL AND~ NON-FORqMAL:
(7)'tr"l1"aPY  FEDUCAT(ON RFFERS TO EDUJCATiO1N AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY- EDUCATIOIN REFERS T' ALL EDVE~~ATITA)  AT THE SECONDARY
EjLVEL PtSnAl7DI  55 OIF TYPF (E.G.  GENFRAt   TECHNICAL. AGRICULTUJRAL)
(~) " ITEIAL A  ATES"(C'.6) ARE O;TEN OIPT ATNED FROIM C;IIN TRY CENSUSES. TN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE 7NLA  ARPA7'%MATjI,NS ANn IT IS
DIIIAFI I  HATAN  'IIFRMDEFINITION OF "LITTERATE' HAS REEN FOLLOWED  CONSISTENTLY,
('I)"rUAI TC ITAPrNrYIlIREINF TECrUCATInN"(COLS.3,14 ANIT) 4) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT FEIPENDIT. RES 'EoCTED TO T'`L1AT17"1 BY
ThAtK T'7 AN() OIIAS-IIRITxC  AGENCIES:
(r)"EktR1LI.MINT RATInS" (COLS 7, 07? AND 1'to RFFER TO SCHOIOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELICIMLE t~:L:'OEN E"RDLLE" r'LL..TIME'
IN TAt. AI'I'TTIIPRTATF SCHOllI , r("IRLIC AND PRIVATE RY LEVEL. THEY APE OFTEN S1IA'ECI`T 1 A *TOE MAOr!N, 'It FQQ' :6 '~E'F TELOPING
CtItIITtThAttS  'WING TO VIRTATLnN  INI THE ACCUIRACY OIF RASIC DATACI.E. AGF-SPECTFTC P`IPCLAT:O`N AEND F%df"5EPO%LLMFNT FIGURES
FItI[I1ILKrt_Y APE HIrPER  THAN THE NUIMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN   SCHOOL. nAEP;AE-E   ST"Er-NT  W'C5E:CF                 :'   IS   NDICAITE'  so
FIItTNrIATI At 31I CAN INFLATEF THE RArTons.



- 55 -
INDONESIA
EXPENDITURE FOR FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
Table 1
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
ALLOCATIONS BY CATEGORY AND TYPE OF BUDGET, 1969/70 - 1976/77
(Rp Million)
Development Budget
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73       1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77/3'  1977/781-'
Primary                      360         423         423        450          460         943        1,934      4,283       7,357
Junior Secondary             300         442         442      1,400        1,800       11,868      12,552     15,429      18,298
Senior Secondary             424       2,173      2,173       2,250        2,207        8,101     15,322      18,813      24,209
Higher                     1,939       1,971      2,772       3,325        3,506        5,956     10,610      14,282      21,820
Penmas                       160         156         156        200          300          256         500         940      1,350
Development of
Ed. Techniques
and Materials                -          155        155         230          293          263         808        890       1,035
Development and
Preservation of
National Culture,
History, Language
and Literature              196         206         206        300          575        2,148       4,611      6,823       9,260
Sports and Youth              91         124        124         145          200          625       1,325      1,567       1,973
Research and Statistics       -           -           -          -            -           170         195         270        307
Upgrading of
Ministry Personnel          -          200        200         200          200          215         338         437        248
Buildings and
Equipment                    -           -           -         300          300          617       2,259      2,725       3,280
Student Assistance            -           -           -          -            -           150         465         900      1,350
Subtotal:             3 470       6 651      5,850  8, 800            9,841       31.311     50,919      67,359      90,487
% Penmas            5          2           3           2            3          1           1           1           1.5
Routine Budget
Primary                                                                       40          149       1,454         270
Secondary                                                                  7,805       20,842      22,629     25,019
Vocational, Technical
and Special Education                                                     5,994       14,1i0     15,720      19,382
Higher Education                                                           6,444       16,504      17,638     19,188
PENMAS                                                                       201          475         469         516
Culture and History                                                          435          395         878       1,039
Youth and Sports                                                             608          127         195         334
Research and Statistics                                                        15         lO6         219         262
Training of Government
Personnel                                                                10,636        8,988      31,600      29,484
Supplementary Materials                                                    8,771           -           51         499
Subtotal:            12,673      16,819     20.905      27.019       40,949       61,766     90,853      95,993
% Penmas                                                           0.5          1           0.5        0.5
Total:            16,143     2347        26,755      35,819       50,790       93,077    141,772    163,352
Source: Department of Education and Culture



- 56 -
INDONESIA                                ANNEX 2
EXPENDITURE  FOR FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL EDUCATION               Page 2
Table 2
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT BUDGET 1975-76
Rp Million
Dept.         Program
Department and Program                            Total          Total
1. Dept. of Interior                                    90             90
a. Development of LSD
2. Dept. of Information                              8,218
a. Information Service                                             933
b. Mobile Units/AVA                                                707
c. Puspenmas (Kabupaten Information Centers)                       634
d. Radio, TV, Film Facilities                                    6,144
3. Dept. of Agriculture                              6,643 a/
a. Extension and Information                                       230
b. Agriculture Educ. and Training                                3,617
c. BIMAS Guidance and Supervision                                3,500
d. Animal Husbandry                                              1,060
e. Fishery                                                       2,500
f. Export Crops (Estate agric.)                                  1,200
g. Forestry                                                      1,180
4. Dept. of Industry                                 1,064
a. Industrial Extension and Promotion                              105
b. Industrial Marketing Information                                139
c. Small Industry Promotion                                        340
d. Home Industries                                                 480
5. Dept. of Education and Culture                    2,263
a. Penmas                                                          500
b. Youth and Sport                                               1,325
c. Development of Art                                              365
d. Book Development                                                490
e. Library Development                                             593
f. Cultural Promotion                                              190
6. Dept. of Health                                   7,006
a. Health Extension Service                                        530
b. Puskesmas (Health Centers)                                      900
c. Family Planning                                               5,576
7. Dept. of Religious Affairs                          160
a. Religious Life Guidance                                         160
8. Dept. of Manpower                                 5,095
a. Cooperative Extension                                           617
b. BUTSI (Volunteer Corps)                                       1,000
c. Transmigration Program                                        2,600
d. Cooperative Staff Training                                      339
e. Training Workshops                                            2,539
9. Dept. of Social Affairs                           1,186
a. Karang Taruna (Youth Guidance)                                  130
b. Social Work                                                     212
c. P.K.T. Deprived Children (Skill Centers)                        344
d. Rehabilitation Center                                           500
As % total educ. expend.
Total               31,725         31,725
a/ Estimated expenditure for extension.
Source: Community Education in Indonesia, A Pre-Investment Study of Penmas,
Department of Education and Culture, September 1975.



- 57 -
INDONESIA                                ANNEX 2
EXPENDITURE FOR FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL EDUCATION               Page 3
Table 3
PENMAS EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY AND TYPE OF BUDGET (1973/74 - 1976/77)
(Rp Million)
Development Budget
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77
Courses
Literacy                                     20        202         169
Vocational                                   12         13          97
Family Life                                  10         12          78
Central Studies                                 9         13          25
Educational
Materials                                     25         68         198
Equipment                                      21          24         -
Training                                       38         28          25
Vehicles                                        9           1         78
Buildings                                      72         66          83
Others                                         19         24          88
Subtotal:                                  234         451         841
Routine Budget
Salaries                           36         248        162         289
Administration                     53         102        147         192
Maintenance                        14          17          25         25
Transportation                      9          9           8           9
Subtotal                        112        376         342         515
Total                            -         610         793       1,356
Salaries as % Total                            41          20         21
Other Overhead (Admin.,
Maintenance, Transport)                       21          23         17
Courses (all) as % Total                        7         29          25
Educational Materials                           4          8          15
In-Service Training
as % Total                                     6           4          2
Buildings, Equipment,
Vehicles as % Total                           17          11         12
Other                                           4           4          a8
100         100        100
Source: Department of Education and Culture



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
INDONgS IA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PENMAS EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
1972
Teaching                 Number of
Types of Activities                    Duration       Hours       Courses   Teacherslt lStudents                             Explanation
I. Fundamental Education Service
1. Literacy classes                         3 months        48            920       1.200       18,800
2. Intro. Community Development                                                                             Teaching people human relations skills and problem solving.
Courses 1                             3   "            48         4,370        6,000     116,500
3. Intro. Commnuity Development                                                                             Social sciences, agriculture, health, techniques of
Courses II                            3   "            48         3,660        5,600    117,600        rural development.
4. Adult Socio-Econ. courses                6   "           150         1,000        3,700      28,200
5. Reading & Discussion groups              j-4 tfTes, 1J-2 bin.           -            -           -       In 10,760 locations, by 21,600 leaders, with 321,900 memberos
6. Local news sheets                                                       -            -           -       In 3 districts, 1,000 copies/month, Malang, Tegal, Kudos.
7. Teachers Training for literacy
& post-literacy courses
a. Traditional literacy                    7-10 days  6 hrs/day           30           90         640
b. Functional literacy                     10-15 "    10 "   "            10           30         180
II. Community Library Service
1. Intermediate village libraries           -                               -           -            -       a. locations: 6,950, b. books: 402,000, c, readers: 209,800
2. Community libraries level A              -                 -            -            -            -      a.               1,380  b.   "    221,100  c.    "          103,900
(sub-district)
3. Commanity libraries level B              -                 -            -            -           -       a.                 170  b.   "    285,000  c.    "           85,000
(districts)
4. Comcunity libraries level C              -                 -            -            -            -      a.                  20  b.   "    121,200  c.    "           42,700
(provinces)
III. Vocational Education Service
1. Vocational courses                       1 week -   30-180 hrs.   1,000          4,900       21,700      Radio aech., automobile, bicycle repair, watch repair,
3 months                                                        carpentry, brickwork, basket weaving, bamboo processing,
photography, tailoring, barbering, agriculture, poultry,
fishery, processing of fish products, food preservation,
home industries, ceramics, shoe-aking, repair, typing.
2. Vocutional development training          -                 -            20           80         170
(training of trainers)
3. Youth work training                      -                 -             -           -            -       locations: 20
4. Guidance & counselling to local
youth associations                    -                 -             -            -           -       members: 4,000, leaders: 2,200, locations: 730
IV. Women's Education Service
1. Family life courses                     4 months          60         3,930       18,700    203,300        Include: cooking, nutrition, consumer infomation,
household skills, home care, child rearing,
budgeting, family inter-personal relationships.
2. Pioneer fat. life educ. training   ,3 days                21           560        2,200      15,600
3. Courseo for fan. Iife educ.            I
workers                               6 months        180            530       3,100       20,500
4. Women's vocational courses               4   "           150           940        4,800      14,200
5. Child guidance courses                   3   "            58             20         140          460
6. Guidance to local fam.
welfare assoc.                        -                  -            -            -           -       members: 163,900, leaders: 15,000, locatioss: 3,500
7. Mother craft centers                     -                 -             -           -            -
V. Leadership Training Service
1. Com-nity leadership courses
Level A (sub-district)                6 months        190          1,620       9,300      42,600
2. Community leadership courses
Level B (district)                    8               200            220       9,300       10,100
3. Community leadership courses
Level C (province)                    10  "           225             10          160         610
4. Comm. Ed. training centers               -                 -             -           -            -       locations: 110 centers
TOTALS                                                       18,800       69,300    611,200
at Including part-time teachers.
Sotrce: Penmas, Department of Education and Culture



-59                                               ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
NON-FQRMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
A/
ANNUAL   SCHEDULE OF PROJECT TRAINING
No.of Trainees                   Weeks per  No. of Training   Total Weeks of
No.of Clients  per Training    No.of Training  Training   Sessions per          Training per
Balai Penmas         in Target       Group              Groups        Session    Year per Group    Year for Target
Central Java/Jogyakarta
Penmas Fieldworkers            492             71                7            2              2                  28
Kabupaten and PLPM staff       135             68                2            2              2                   8
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
West Java
Penmsas Fieldworkers           460             66                7            2              2                  28
Kabupaten and PLPM staff       143             72                2            2              2                   8
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
East Java
Penmas Fieldworkers            544             78                7            2              2                  28
Kabupaten and PLPM staff       166             56                3            2              2                  12
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
South Sulawesi
Penmas Fieldworkers             167            34                5            2              2                  20
Kabupaten and PLPM staff       129             32                4            2              2                  16
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
Jakarta
Penmas Fieldworkers             27             27                1            2              2                   4
Private Sector Peniliks        280             40                7            2              2                  28
Kabupaten and PLPM staff        25             25                1            2              2                   4
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
North Sumatra
Penmas Fieldworkers            177             36                5            2              2                  20
Kabupaten and PLPM staff        86             29                3            2              2                  12
Balai Penmas staff              40             40                1            2              1                   2
a/  Full scale training is expected to commence in  July 1979.  Prior to  July 1979, the existing centers in
West Java (Jayagiri) and Jakarta (Kebon Jeruk) would be utilized for training the staff of the Penmas
Directorate and the Six Balai Penmas.. Some training of field staff would also be conducted during this
period, largely to assist in development of training materials and procedures.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
INDONESIA                                                      Page 1
NON-FOR14L EDUCATION I'ROJECT
SCHEDULE OF PROJECT MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION
Table }
SCHEDULE OF DEVELOPMENT- OF NEW MATERIALS
1978-1979             1979-1980            1980-1981              1981-1982           T o t a 1
Provin-               Provin-               Provin-             Provin-                Provin-
New     cial Adap-  New       cial Adap-  New       cial Adap-  New    cial Adap-  New         cial Adap-
Titles  tation       Titles  tation        Titles  tation         Titles tation       Titles  tation
West Java -
Pamphlets (No.of titles)             10        -           15         _           8        10           8       15          41        25
Slides (No. of sets)                  6        -            9         -           9       -             9        -          33        -
Audio Tapes (No. of titles)           8        -           12         -          12        -           12        -          44        -
Posters (No. of sets)                 3        -            3         6           3         6           3        6          12        18
Training Manuals (No.of titles)       3        -            5         -           6       -             6        -          20        -
Other Balai Penmas -/
Pamplets (No.of titles)               2 d/    -             3         5           3        15           3      20           11        40
Slides (No. of sets)                  1 d/    -             2         4           3         6           3       6            9        16
Audio Tapes (No. of titles)           2 d/    -             4         8           6        12           6       12          18        32
Posters (No. of sets)                 2 d/    -             2         2           2         3           2        4           8         9
Training Manuals (No.of titles)    -           -            -         3           -         S           -        6           -        14
Total
Pamphlets (No. of titles)            20       -            30        25          23        85          23     115           96       225
Slides (No. of sets)                 11       -            19        20          24        30          24       30          78        80
Audio Tapes (No. of titles)          18        -           32        40          42        60          42       60         134       160
Posters (No. of sets)                13       -            13        16          13        21          13       26          52        63
Training Manuals (No.of titles)       3        -            5        15           6        25           6       30          20        70
Notes on materials:  Pamphlets are generally 12 to 24 pages in length.  Slide sets average 36 slides to a set.  Most audio
tapes are produced to accompany a slide set. Posters average 10 to a set and include large posters
(e.g. 75xlOO cm) and smaller poster cards (e.g. 20x25 cm). Training manuals include materials used
during training and field guides for field workers.
a/  Development includes conception and jAanning, writing, designs, testing, revision and preparation of camera ready copy.
It excludes mass manufacture.
b/  A portion of the materials produced by the West Java center would be tested nationally and meant for use in all provinces.
The remainder would be tested in the province of West Java and meant for use solely in West Java. The figures on the
table exclude materials (e.g. 49 pamphlets) to be produced during 1977-1980 with the assistance of UNICEF.
c/  Figures reflect the output of a single provincial center (Central Java, East Java, Jakarta, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi).
Materials would be tested within a single province and meant for use only within the province.
d/  Developed by staff of the provincial center as part of their training program.



- 61 -                                         ANNEX 5
Page 2
INDONESIA
SCHEDULE OF PROJECT MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION
Table 2
SCHEDULE OF MANUFACTURE OF MATERIALS
1978-1979   1979-1980   1980-1981   1981-1982           Total
Balai Penmas
West Java
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                450,000      550,000      650,000      750,000      2,400,000
Slides (Sets)                          200          400          600          600           1,800
Tapes (No. of cassettes)               400          800        1,200        1,200           3,600
Posters (Sets)                         600        1,000        1,500        2,000           5,100
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)         2,000        7,000        2,500        2,500          14,000
Jakarta
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                              40,000       60,000       70,000         170,000
Slides (Sets)                                        90           90            90            270
Tapes (No. of cassettes)                            180          180           180            540
Posters (Sets)                                       50          100           150            300
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)                      2,000          500           500          3,000
South Sulawesi
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                             250,000      400,000      450,000      1,100,000
Slides (Sets)                                       150          200          200             550
Tapes (No. of cassettes)                            300          400          400           1,100
Posters (Sets)                                      300          650           850          1,800
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)                      2,000          600           600          3,200
North Sumatera
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                             250,000      400,000      450,000      1,100,000
Slides (Sets)                                       150          200           200            550
Tapes (No. of cassettes)                            300          400           400          1,100
Posters (Sets)                                      300          700           900          1,900
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)                      2,000          600           600          3,200
Central Java
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                             700,000   1,100,000   1,400,000        3,200,000
Slides (Sets)                                       300          600           600          1,500
Tapes (No. of cassettes)                            600        1,200        1,200           3,000
Posters (Sets)                                    1,100        2,400         3,000          6,500
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)                      6,000        1,800         1,800          9,600
East Java
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                             650,000   1,050,000   1,350,000         3,050,000
Slides (Sets)                                       300          600           600          1,500
Tapes (No. of cassettes)                            600        1,200         1,200          3,000
Posters (Sets)                                    1,000        2,100         2,900          6,000
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)                      6,000        1,700         1,700          9,400
TOTAL
Type Material:
Printed (Pamphlets)                450,000   2,440,000   3,660,000   4,470,000    11,020,000
Slides (Sets)                          200        1,390        2,290         2,290          6,170
Tapes (No. of cassettes)               LOU        2,780        4,580         4,580         12,340
Posters (Sets)                         600        3,750        7,450        9,800          21,600
Training Manuals (Pamphlets)         2,000       25,000        7,700         7,700         42,400



INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT TARGET CLIENTELE
(1982)
Province              No. of Fieldworkers   No. of PLPMs   No. of Learning Groups   No. of Participants
Central Java and
Jogyakarta                  570                 12                12,500                    245,000
West Java                     390                 10                 7,000                    145,000
Jakarta
Penmas                       30                  -                   700                     15,000
a/
Private Sector              120-/                -                 2,300                      50,000
South Sulawesi                170                 10                 3,500                      70,000               C'
North Sumatra                 180                  7                 3,500                      75,000
East Java                     540                  9                11,500                    230,000
Total                  2,000                 48                41,000                    830,000
a/ It is estimated that 10% to 20% of private sector fieldworkers would adopt
Penmas materials and participate in Penmas training programs.



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Rp Million)
Local Costs    Foreign Costs   Total Costs
Balai Penmas
Land                                            115              -               115
Construction                                    534             288              822
Sub-total                             649              288             937
Equipment
Project Unit                                     10.9             11.5            22.4
Balai Penmas                                     57.6           207.8            265.4
District Offices                                 73.6           626.7            700.3
PLPMs                                            54.1           190.7            244.8
Fieldworkers                                    269.8         1,039.9          1,309.7
Sub-total                             466           2,076.6          2,542.6
Materials Development, Program
Delivery and Evaluation
Balai Penmas                                    544             333              877
District Offices                                404             107              511
PLPMs                                            86              67              153
Fieldworkers                                    668             222              890
Sub-total                           1,702              729           2,431
Staff Training                                  1,194.3           133            1,327.3
Basic Learning Fund                               301.8             33.5           335.3
Technical Assistance
Domestic Training                                 8.6              2.2            i0.8
Domestic Consultants                             82.1             20.5           102.6
Writers' and Designers' Services                201.6             50.4           252
Foreign Fellowships                               -              220.1           220.1
Expatriate Consultants                            -             652.8            652.8
Consultant Architects                            53.3             28.7            82
Sub-total                             345.6            974.7         1,320.3
Sub-total, all categories           4,658.7         4,234.8          8,893.5
Physical Contingency                              466              423             889
Sub-total                           5,124.7         4,657.8          9,782.5
Price Contingencies                             2,380           1,588            3,968
Grand Total                         7,504.7         6,245.8         13,750.5
US$ Million Equivalent                 18.09            15.04           33.13



INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT CONTINGENCIES BY CATEGORY
(Rp million)
Materials
Dev., Program               Basic       Specialist
Civil                   Delivery       Staff      Learning    Services &
Land      Works       Equipment   and Eval.   Training         Fund       Fellowships  Sub-Total
Base Costs                    115         822          2,543       2,431       1,327         335           1,320       8,893
Physical Contingency
(10%)                          12          82            264         243         133          34             132         889
Sub-total             127         904          2,797       2,674       1,460         369           1,452        9,782      >
Price Contingency
(Averaged Factors)
Amount                            325            755       1,417         774         218             479        3,968
Percentage                         36%            27%         53%         53%         59%             33%          41%
Total Costs (Rounded)         130       1,230         3,550        4,090       2,230         590          1,930       13,750



- 65-                             ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
1/
Implemen-                                                   Undisbursed
Calendar      tation           Semesterly           Cumulative            Balances
Year       Semester       US$ Millions   %   US$ Millions   %   US$ Millions   %
1978          1                 -         -          -         -        15.0       100
2                0.5        3         0.5        3        14.5        97
3                0.6        4         1.1        7        13.9        93
1979
4                1.5       10         2.6       17       12.4         83
5                1.7       11         4.3       28        10.7        72
-~911         6                1.9       13         6.2       41         8.8        59
7                2.6       18         8.8       59         6.2        41
1981
8                3.2       21        12.0       80         3.0        20
9                2.2       15        14.2       95         0.8         5
1982
10                0.8        5        15.0      100         0.0         0
1/ From estimated date of Loan signing.



- 66 -
INDONESIA                                                                                               ANNEX 10
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Lon  tth          1977                    1978                     1979                     1980                     19S1          I            982         1
ACTIVITIES                         0s Set Wt   St 3dd 2od                                                                                                                 Sr 4,,    I   2nd 3rd 4th  21n 3| 2d    3rd   41h  52nd
pFHtSICAL FACILITIES                                                                                          I
S.,.no ol Eo-st-'q F-I,1 rS -od Stet
Aoel. s.t p  oF Ldtt'J                                     S5             tttf_                                     
CIV L .ORKS                                               _                                                    - !                                      r    -                                     i
C.  3to  no  (1n-  B-tefilg 01 Coos toots                   2          _
St  Soottato, Svo !IostSet p  t                             2
P-'-itrfl ' -d AI-to,o   of
Sc!o"tt Or   ,s gtn                                       2_
xAt,t'sttoO',o'gst -d                                    4
(Dn' Oo.- 'll^s                                          2
Ot,.tt54 ,ttootott ol Cp;,ttitotot                          4_                        
"I lttt02
Eot E;.|.o.,t Olt p .2 lll
t'aO ::SOOtOt]d                                            2_
C '
o'o ntee   Pottod                                           6                                  I___ __T___ _I_
FLRNI'URE
PtO--t-fl -nd Ap-.oto   Of L,t & D-s9gn                     4
T-.d,e ,g                                                   2._
dt0 E'slOdt ott                                             2
A-oott'to2
Cotttsaot AoaarOtlo                                          2                                              _     
\?nlcG  - \PO'der ng                                7_
Tot teos 1. C-,l-ess Inc Odtt Istttg as ont                 1                                                                   _
ootnOet Petod                                               3
EQUIPMlENT
POt  tiot  - Ottd At--tOoOt of
P,t 'lno   ottRta L st                                      S
To"o  To!  , D.-s-t-s                                       4                      _
T-o-',nt                                                    3
8.0 E--loot on                                              3
Co-1tt  A-sdott;                                            2
P--.tot  on fot So p-ent                                    2
St,t tt                                                     2
Otooronot Do very to Wa-,ehouse1
Loto      p L.voo-og Ottd Ropok,,ng                         4
Do  -, Ito Cnt--s                                           2                                                               _
GoaoteoPe-od                                                6                                                                                ______________
VATER'ALS DEVELCPMENT                                                                                                                                                 _
MATER'ALS PRODUCTION_ 
LJYOU, & Design                                             9__tf
Ptat, 10aking                                               9                                                                                                     0 _t        
Pr ntlng                                                    10___                                                                                                                                     _
B'`tttg                                                     1 O                                                                                                                                 _    _t
TRAINING OF NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL STAFF
ProJec  ImlmnainUi            
P-o -cz  Di ... I."                                          I
Mae-I, I D-1.lp-,n Stalf                                    15_
Ph-tg,.phe,s1 
TRAINING LF SUB PROVINCIAL STAFF
iupenSlaff                                                                                                                                        on "" 
F eo 'to                                                    IS                                  !l                                                       
M d Ter- E,Pl-ati.,B                                                   ii                                          
6~~~~~
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE A            O           S                                                                                                                                                          _
Doll-t-O F0etotsh p
For-pg Fe os 
Motot.o  Spec lomst StI f                                   1 5
PrOqrot OnSpnlo 5  S  toff                                   2                                                _
Fpe,soa.o Stofalt Ser ce for M d-Tem Eva ua___n_ _                                                                 _ _ | ______T ____ _____________   ______________
TA SIC  LEARNING FUND P_RV I NC     ST
Th,, f *si ron f --orils d--e!P-n and PIoduc on occur . J-vair                                                                                                                                       VV.rld B,,,k 17499
Fsequer--.d. .,- .P      all ta  BMW  P--



INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE PENMAS DIRECTORATE
CENTRAL (PUSAT) ORGANIZATION
Directorate
|   Administrative
I ntfi                                                      u
Bsic                                 Vocationa     D                       Women eo                            PENMAS Teaching                    Devm of PDventpml
Educ          eation                 Edtc            etion                 Educatdoon                          Methods Develop.                 LComm. RPsoctRe
Basic                               Training Dev.                         Ed. for                                PENMAS Dev.                         Planning Dev.
_    Capability                          Prog. for                      _       Family Life                     _      & Plnin_                           of Potential
Develop.                            Vocational Ed.                        Improvement                            Tech. Dev                           Comm. Res.
Basic Ed.                            Self-Dev.                         |Guidance for                           f Tech. of                          |Regulation & 
_   Development                   _      Vocational Ed.                         Women's Activ.                   _      PENMAS Ed.                         MGT. Potential 
Activities                                                                 & Deveiopment                                                           |Res.         
l           | ~~~~Curriculum                       |Curriculum                            |Implementation  |Irmplementation|
_  Books &                            |Development &  |_                        Development &  |_                      of PENMAS                            of Reg.     
Reading Mat.                       |Methodology                              Methodology                          |Tech. Develop.|                      Comm. Pot. Res. |
-|  Admiil Sec.din Sec                                                           Admin Sec                              EvauaionU3iz
World Bank-17290






CHART 2
INDONESIA
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF PENMAS
PROVINCIAL, DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT OFFICES
|   PROYVINCIAL REPRE.         |
SENTATIVE OF THE_
MINISTRY OF EDUCATIrON
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                               - -              i               OLF    EOUCATIO
TECH. SECRE-         FEEDBACK &                PERSONNEL EDUCATIONAL
TARIAT               EVALUATION            D                  MATERIALS DEV.          PROGRAMS
BUDGINACET  l rL  STATISTICS           I& PRN TEDINT                                BASIC ED.
RECORDS            DEIF MATER IALS _ 
PROV. P.I.U          PROGRAM                      N             SOUND          L     FAMILY LIFE
|  ACCOUNTANT  l L   MONITORING   l  |   WO                     MATERIALS           EDUCATION
| PROCUREMENT  l  |    EVAL. OF            TRAINING             AUDIO-VISUAL          PRE-VOC.
-L& SUPPLIES  l l    TRAINING              MATERIALS            AIDS & EDUIP.         TRAINING
ASUERVISION.           TRAINING             VISUAL               PROGRAM
& DISTRIBUTION         FOLLOW-UP            MATERIALS            COORDINAT.
PRINTING            SPECIAL
LIBRARY        ~~& DUPLIC .         PROGRAMS
SHOPP
KABUPATEN REPRESENTA-
TIVE OF THE MINISTRY
OF EDUCATION
| KABUPATEN TECH.  i          |VKABUPATEN
COO |D. COMMITTEYPENMAS OFFICEL
P.WORLKERE TCH
DIRECTOR                            SUPPORT STAF2
TRAINERS 
: OFF~~ICE OF.
: EOUCA~TION .
|PENMA  FIE 
VILLAGE OUTREACH        |
BY PENMAS FIELD-
WORKER
World B..k-17292






INDONESIA
NON- FORkAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
ACCOUNTANT                                               SECRETARY |
| T  |TRAINING  PROCUREMENT        ARCHITECT     I LEARNING MAT      PROGRAMS       ALUATION
PROVINCIAL
FIELD DIRECTORS
PENMAS DISTRICT OFFICERS
PENMAS FIELDWORKERS (PENILIKS)
a/ Chief for Technical Assistance






Al~~~~~
oz
77; =~=w                                         > Q          
< ~ ~
a, .    1 bI-                                                -' '  211f E"EgW91    
0   : S  j     \/ S  3;t/~{  o           '         ~             Z
f f: f AX    t=iCS10: 0    0' :1
C-~~~~C
PAPUA NEW\\\'f  G :NEAs         o
03               Pa9\1u  
-u 3    x  t-)W-
X                           aWS            b    .        a        <~~~1  ~7
1                                                                         -7 -     '7 c /'   '
.{  X    j     j    X ie,   1    X                      f  I  t/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n,
& 0                        A  r           
'\i    _i                        t   S               <
fl   %  f f tk :~~~ 
9>2              o                                                                         1 k , /   0 01
_- ,          PAU   NEW  GUINEA   /U  



