Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC1AL USE ONLY
Report NO. 13645
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Infrastructure Operation Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Year                     Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00 Equivalent
1987 (Appraisal)  -      4.85
1988               -     5.92
1989               -     7.61
1990               -     8.96
1991               -     18.47
1992               -     21.84
1993               _
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAD                Banque Alg6rienne de Developpement
BNA         =      Banque Nationale d'Algerie
INFRAFER    =      Entreprise Nationale de Realisation
d' Infrastructures Ferroviaires
JEXIM       =      Japan EXIM Bank
MOF         =      Ministere des Finances
MOT         =      Ministere des Transports
SNTF        =      Soci6te Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SAR         =      Staff Appraisal Report
SBD         =      Bank's Standard Bid Document
RTRDA       =      Renewal of Track between Ramdane-Djamal and
Annaba
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Winhlgon, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:            Project Completion Report on Algeria
Second Railway Project (Loan 2976-AL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Algeria - Second Railway Project
(Loan 2976-AL) prepared by the Maghreb and Iran Department of the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. It gives a disturbing account of project preparation, implementation and results.
Part II which contains the Borrower's comments states that Part I is one-sided in attributing project
failures to the Algerian managers. The Borrower insists that the assessment does not take into
account other relevant factors.
The US$143 million loan was approved in July 1988 and closed in February 1993, about two
months after the original closing date. Only US$23.1 million were disbursed and the balance
cancelled. The project was co-financed by the EXIM Bank of Japan to the amount of US$47 million;
of this only US$8 milion were disbursed and the balance cancelled.
T'he project aimed to upgrade railway infrastructure and to raise the quality of institutional
management. Project components consisted of track renewal, track equipment, signalling, and
institutional development. Only the procurement of track maintenance equipment was completed.
Track rehabilitation was not even started. Bidding documents for signalling equipment were never
fully completed. Proposals from consulting firms to technical assistance and studies were received
but awards were not made. The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability
as unlikely and its institutional impact as negligible.
An audit is planned.
Attachement
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vithout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2976-AL)
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
PREFACE ............................... . . .
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................... .  ii
PART I.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
I.  PROJECT IDENTITY .I..................... . .
II.   BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
The Transport Sector and the Geographical Context   . . . . . . .  2
Sector Development Objectives ................ .  3
III.    THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Implementation Experience   ......  .              ..  .   .  ..  .  ..  .  .    .  4
Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Project Implementation ........                  ...    ..   ...  ..     ..    .   6
Project Results ....................... . 7
Financial Performance   ........                 ...    ..   ...    ..   ..    .   7
Economic Reevaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Sustainability .................... . 10
Bank Performance ....................... . 10
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . I . I . . I . I .                  I I11
Project Documentation and Data .. ............... . 11
Cofinancing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PART III.
A.    PROJECT DATA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
1.  General   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
2.  Related Bank loans and/or credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3.  Project Timetable   .......  ..  .                ..  ..  ..  ..  ..        . 17
4.  Loan Disbursements .................... . 17
Bi. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .18
B2. PROJECT FINANCING .19
C. PROJECT RESULTS    ..19
1. Direct Benefits .              ----------119
2.  Economic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
D. STATUS OF COVENANTS .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                            Page No.
E.  USE OF BANK RESOURCES .           2323
1. Suary ......................... . 23
2. Staff input and Major Project Missions . . . . . . . . . . . 23
F.  FINANCIAL PERFO&NCE STATIENTS ............... . 25
G.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE STATEAENTS .  .     27                      27
ANNEX 1.  TRACK RENEWAL ON RANDANE DJAMEL-ANNARA SECTION
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE CHRONOLOGY OF THIS PROJECT COMPONENT  . . . 29
ANNEX 2.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION OF INVESTMENT IN MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT . . 31
ANNEX 3.  SNTF CO*ENTS ON THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  .34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reflects the status of the Second
Railway Project (Ln. 2976-AL) when the loan account was closed on February 28,
1993. about two months after the original closing date. Out of a loan of
US$143 million. only US$ 23.14 m wer- disbursed and the remainder cancelled.
The cofinancing loan of US$47 million granted by the EXI3 Bank of Japan was
disbursed up to US$8 million and the rest cancelled. The last disbursement
was made on July 31, 1993.
This PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I & III) was jointly
prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division (EHTIN) of the Technical
Department of EMEMA and SNTF, the Borrower (Part II).
This report is based on information obtained from project files in
ECA/HENA Information Services Unit, the SAR, the President's Report, Staff
Supervision reports, and the working papers.



t



- ii -
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project was designed to rehabilitate priority sections of the
railway network, enhance managerial capabilities, improve financial
performance, and rationalize the investment policy. Institution building
under the project included setting up a planning cell, modernizing cost-
accounting, introducing modern techniques of traffic control and man-power
planning, and staff training. Main investments were for track rehabilitation
and renewal, acquisition of track maintenance and phosphate handling
equipment, and signalling and telecomunications.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was approved by the Board in July 1988 but became effective
in March 1990 only, due to delays incurred in signing of cofinancing
arrangements with EXIM Bank of Japan (JEXIM). Project implementation was
marred by frequent revisions of priorities (starting barely a month following
Board approval, when an Algerian delegation came to Washington to request
elimination of the phosphate handling equipment, reduction in the allocation
for track renewal of the mineral line, together with a substantial increase in
the signalling component), and recurrent deadlocks on procurement issues.
Tenders were invited for the track rehabilitation component, but no agreement
could be reached on awarding the contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. The
bid documents for signalling and telecommunications component were never
finalized. Proposals from consulting firms for the technical assistance and
studies components were received, but no contract was awarded (para. 3.10).
The project's performance turned out most disappointing, and the Borrower
never complied with major loan covenants.
3.    In November 1992, the Government of Algeria requested an extension of
the loan closing date and permission to award the contract for track
rehabilitation to a local parastatal. The Bank had made the extension of the
loan closing date contingent upon the Borrower meeting by a December 19, 1992
deadline the following conditions: (a) correcting tariffs, (b) signing a
performance contract with the Government, (c) complying with the audit
requirements, and (d) hiring consultants for execution of studies on cost
accounting and other key aspects of railway management. The Bank had also
insisted on selecting the lowest evaluated bidder for the major track
rehabilitation contract. In order to give the Government and the railways
more time to fulfill the basic requirements for financial and operating
improvements considered imperative for continuation of the project, the Bank
agreed to postpone the loan closing date to February 28, 1993, and sent a
mission to Algiers in early February to try to reach agreement on pending



-iii-
issues. The mission failed to achieve its objective, and the loan was closed
on schedule.
Results
4.    out of the six principal groups of project components, only the
procurement of track maintenance equipment was completed. By closing date,
only 16 percent of the loan had been disbursed and, overall, the project had
limited impact on the railway operations. The institution building never took
off. The attempt to put the national railway (SNTF) on a sound path of
financial recovery foundered: by 1993, SNTF was virtually bankrupt and in
need of financial restructuring to be able to continue its operations.
Sustainabilitv
5.    Progress achieved under the project is so minor that the question of its
sustainability may look largely irrelevant. From a broader perspective, there
appears to be not much hope for sustained development in the railway sub-
sector for the moment. As long as SNTF operates in a highly regulated
environment, and is not granted sufficient managerial autonomy under a
performance contract with the Government ensuring, among other things, the
right amount of compensations for providing loss-making public services when
requested to do so, it will be unable to improve the financial performance
and to fund infrastructure maintenance at the desired level.
6.    Furthermore,  rationalizing the investment program was an important
project objective to be pursued through setting-up of a planning cell. This
component took a slow start, and was eventually stalled by conflicting views
between SNTF management and the Bank on the terms of reference of related
consultancies.   It follows that scarce resources are still misallocated to
too many uneconomical investments which generate incremental operating costs,
and aggravate SNTF's financial imbalances.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.    Project performance may have been affected by the severe recession that
beset the Algerian economy in late implementation years, although many of its
failures are traceable to the following factors:
(a) project ownership by the Borrower proved to be shallow by his
procrastinating agreed actions toward institutional development through
implementation, and defaulting on major loan covenants (para 3.22);
(b) risks of project failure were not realistically assessed; the still
fresh experience of the First Railway Project called for appraising a project
much smaller in size and scope (para 3.22);
(c) frequent changes of the management team would not have led to
revision of priorities detrimental to the project's integrity, had it been
rooted in a firm corporate plan (paras 3.6, 3.9, and 3.22);



- iv -
(d) implementation arrangements should have been firmed up before
project launch; the creation of a project cell halfway through project
execution was a late and imperfect answer to poor coordination of the
management team toward achieving project objectives (paras 3.9 and 3.25);
(e) approval of bidding documents for major contracts prior to Board
approval, and a mandatory use of Bank standard bidding documents through
project execution would have spared many of the deadlocks on procurement
issues (paras 3.11, 3.23, and 3.27);
(f) the 1988 Convention was not an effective tool to free SNTF from
undue interferences by the Government; conflicting objectives set for SNTF
combined with the insufficient leadership and high turnover of its management
team, strongly contributed to project failures; a Performance Contract
guaranteeing sufficient managerial autonomy, inclusion of remedies in the Loan
Agreement against undue changes in key personnel and project design, together
with an agreement that the Bank would be entitled to request new commitments
if they were found to be essential to meet project objectives, are important
aspects to consider in future railway lending in Algeria (para 3.21 and 3.27);
and
(g) cofinanciers should be invited to participate actively in project
negotiations (para 3.29).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
PART I
Proiect Review From Bank's Perspective
I. Prolect Identity
Name:                   Second Railway Project
Loan Number:            2976-AL
RVP Unit:               HENA
Country:                Algeria
Sector:                 Transport
Subsector:              Railways



11. Background
The Transport Sector and the Geographical Context
2.1    Algeria is a country of 2.4 m.sq.km which consists of three natural geographic zones: (i) a coastal
strip that covers 4% of the country's territory but is home to 70% of its population and an equivalent
proportion of the country's agricultural and industrial production; (ii) the high plateaux located some 150
kms inland, comprising 7% of the land and 22% of the population, and sustaining a low level of
agricultural and economic activity; (iii) the southern territories, consisting of scattered oases in a desert,
comprising 89% of the land with only 8% of the population. This extensive geographical spread makes
transport a key factor in economic development.
2.2    Algeria's transport network (1992) provides good coverage of the centers of economic activity
with 95,500 km of national and regional roads, 5,100 km of railways, 5,000 km of oil and gas pipelines,
six major ports and 11 international airports. Road transport carried (in 1990) over 14 billion t-km p.a.
or about 86%  of total freight and about 38 billion pass-km p.a. or 93%  of total passenger traffic. In
sharp contrast, the railway carried (in 1990) 2.6 billion t-km or about 16% of the market and 1.6 billion
pass-km, or 3.8%.
2.3    The transport sector requires considerable attention to make it an efficient instrument of
development. Containerization and intermodalism made little progress. Infrastructure maintenance has
been neglected, as a result of which rail tracks, roads and ports are generally in a poor condition.
Transport services are mostly provided by parastatals which, in the case of railways, airlines and ports,
enjoy total monopolies in their respective sub-sectors. There is a vast scope to improve transport
efficiency by reducing the state's role in management and introducing more of private entrepreneurship
and modern styles of management.
2.4    The railway (SNTF) consists of a main line running all along the coast in the East-West direction,
with Algiers at the center, and several secondary lines running south to reach the second and third zones.
The eastern segment of the line from Algiers to Annaba constituted the focus of attention of this project
in terms of rehabilitation and modernization. The project design envisaged the western segment to be
rehabilitated in future projects similar in scope and conception.
2.5    The SNTF is a public agency under the Ministry of Transport (MOT). The DG is a ministerial
appointee who reports to a Board of Directors also appointed by the MOT. Though SNTF is officially
an EPIC (entreprise publique a caractere industriel et commercial), the key decisions in regard to (i)
tariffs, (ii) staffing, and (iii) the nature and scope of services to be provided are taken by the
Government.'  Admittedly, SNTF's management is free to make proposals, but the final decision is
subject to socio-political considerations unrelated to commercial needs and market forces. This erosion
of the commercial character of an EPIC appears to be an anomaly sanctioned by Algerian law, which
considers an EPIC as an extension of the Government. As a consequence, SNTF is denied the
1/     The MOT acts in consultation with the MOF and Ministry of Labor etc. on questions which concern finance,
labor, respectively.



-3-
opportunity of engaging itself in a contrat-plan with the State, as the Government cannot contract with
itself.
2.6    Railway operations are the victim of two inherent structural defects: (i) the network's design
dating back to colonial times, and poorly adapted to modern trains; and (ii) the existence of two different
gauges. Despite these handicaps, SNTF manages to carry heavy mineral traffic (phosphates and iron ore),
of the order of 4 million ton per year.
Sector Development Obiectives
2.7    Four main sectoral issues had been identified at project appraisal: (i) institutional coordination
and overall planning (ii) sector management and operational efficiency; (iii) investment planning; and (iv)
pricing and fiscal policy. An action plan was developed as an instrument for addressing these concerns.
A National Transport Study (financed under the Fifth Highway project) was also launched. This study
was expected to identify measures to strengthen SNTF's management including the planning function,
as well as improve the efficiency of operations. Two significant actions were planned: preparation of
1990-94 railway development plan and the provision of technical assistance and training for feasibility
studies and design work. The project proposed to raise management efficiency by setting up a modern
cost accounting system and a management information system covering financial and operating data,
launching studies for redefinition of staffing requirements by function and level, and preparation of career
development, and providing management training. The investment plans were to be prioritized for
rehabilitation and modernization of the existing network at the rate of 200 km per year. Investments on
new lines were to be deferred in order to give a high priority to rehabilitation, catching up with arrears
of maintenance and modernization of the existing lines, in particular, the Eastern Rocade (Algiers-
Annaba).



- 4-
III. The Project
Obiectives
3.1    This project was designed as an integral part of the Bank's policy-based strategy to address the
problems of the transport sector in Algeria.  The project targeted four key areas of conspicuous
weaknesses in the railway sub-sector: (i) rationalization of the investment program, with a strong
orientation towards the rehabilitation of the network; (ii) financial restructuring of the railway, with a
built-in focus on a new railway convention to address a package of financial issues: pricing, public
service compensation, investment financing and the rationalization of depreciation policy; (iii) a set of
institutional measures including a modern cost-accounting system, man-power planning, project planning
and economic analysis and staff training.
Implementation Experience
3.2    The implementation experience, in order to be meaningful, has to be viewed in the context of the
First Railway Project (Ln 0996, US$49m). This project dragged on for 7.5 years. US$12.1 m were
unutilized and cancelled. Five main lessons were learnt from this project: (i) even a modest project of
US$49.Om took over 7 years to complete; (ii) major staff changes in SNTF resulted in project delays;
(iii) lack of capable counterparts for consultants hampered the work of the latter; (iv) unclear financial
responsibilities and chronic shortfalls in tariff revisions led to serious financial problems; and (v) little
or no institutional improvement took place. The project was closed on December 31, 1982. The
problems faced by the Second Railway project were similar in nature, but worse in severity.
3.3    The Second Railway Project (Loan 2976-AL, US$143m) project was presented to the Board on
June 24, 1988, five and a half years after the closure of the previous one. It became effective on March
20, 1990 (reasons for this 21 month delay are discussed in para 3.28). SNTF was the implementing
agency and the MOT the supervising agency.
3.4    In July 1988, immediately after Board presentation and 3 months after negotiations, a delegation
of SNTF managers came to Washington requesting four significant changes in the project: (i)
abandonment of the phosphate unloading equipment (US$ 1.5m); (ii) reduction in the allocation for the
track renewal of the mineral line, El Hadjar to Souk Ahras (US$22.2m) by at least 50%2 (iii) transfer
of track materials from Beni Mansour-El Gourzi section to RTRDA; and (iv) a substantial increase in the
signalling component by some US $10-12m. These changes were the result of the senior SNTF staff in
charge of this project changing their priorities and realizing they needed more signalling and less track
renewal. The delegation had also brought the draft bidding document prepared by Austrian consultants
for track renewal between Ramdane Djamel and Annaba, the largest component in this project. This
document was found to be totally incompatible with the procurement rules, and in need of extensive
revisions to make it conform to the Bank's SBD for works (para 3.7). These two problems within one
month after Board presentation are symptomatic of the problems which beset this project. Every new
director of a department found reasons to change what his predecessor had agreed upon. Bid documents,
2/     SNTF proposed to carry out "intensive maintenance" (entretien renforce) on this line as opposed to the more
expensive renewal. The design and planning of the heavy maintenance program were prepared by a consultant and
SNTF completed it using force account.



- 5
technical specifications, category allocations, even the source of financing for individual project
components were subjected to frequent change (para 3.6).
Project Components
3.5    The project components could be grouped under four main objective-oriented groups: (i) track
renewal; (ii) track equipment; (iii) signalling; and (iv) institutional development. The project comprised
six principal components:
i)    track rehabilitation/renewal, for a total of 371 knm;
ii)    signalling, and telecommunications modernization and the block system on two selected
sections;
iii)    equipment for track maintenance, materials for operational support (informatics), and
training equipment;
iv)    specialized unloading equipment for phosphates on the eastern mineral line;
v)    technical assistance for (a) establishment of a cost accounting system, (b) human resource
planning and development, (c) investment analysis and planning, and (d) management
information systems; and
vi)   training for SNTF staff including support for the Rouiba Railway Training Institute.
3.6    The conceptual justification for these investments rested on two principal underpinnings: (i)
upgrading and modernizing the infrastructure for making railway operations safer, speedier, and more
efficient; and (ii) raising the quality of institutional management, including its human resources
component. Though these two fundamental thrusts had been agreed upon by the borrower as well as the
MOT, SNTF requested the Bank for the changes in the project design (para. 3.4). This was primarily
because project design was not rooted in a confirmed corporate plan laying down a coherent development
strategy for the institution. The 1990-94 development plan underwent frequent changes which partly
came as a result of the radical transformation of the macroeconomic framework that took place in those
years, and the varying perception that successive management teams had of its implications on railways
development. It was the single most important reason for which none of the contracts for technical
assistance and studies could be awarded during the five years. The Bank had also sought guarantees on
resolution of the phosphate handling problem using alternative resources before agreeing to reallocate loan
amounts to alternative uses: they came too late to serve any purpose.
3.7    The project had been well prepared, but the complicated procurement of the track renewal works
on the Ramdane Djamed-Annaba section (about 90 kms) was based on a bidding document prepared by
an Austrian consultant. This document was unusable for Bank's ICB procurement. The finalization of a
bidding document satisfactory to the Bank took nearly three years. (See Annex 1 for a summary account
of delays and of their causes).
3.8    The project timing was right, for SNTF's traffic growth, traffic safety, and quality of service
were being inhibited by the lack of viable infrastructure. The management was aware of these drawbacks



and convinced that the project benefits would enable SNTF to better face the competition. But SNTF
could not convert this awareness into a focused commitment to a firm corporate plan, and time was lost
in repeated attempts to bend the project to suit evolving opinions.
3.9    SNTF's management was aware of its responsibility as an executing agency. But in the beginning,
all decisions were being made by a single manager, the Director of Planning, without involving the
respective departmental directors. This problem was resolved when a project cell was created, but it did
not have enough staff to manage the work load. The chairman of the cell had so many other functions
that his day-to-day activities had precedence over the project needs. Several changes in Director General
took place during implementation. Each new Director General changed some of the key departmental
directors, and each change meant a new timetable, a new agenda, and new revisions of the technical
features of the project. Suitable implementation arrangements should have been in place before project
launch.
Proiect Implementation
3.10   Significant variances: Out of the six principal groups of project components (para. 3.5), only
the procurement of track maintenance equipment was completed. The track rehabilitation work on the
RD-A section, the main project component, was not even started The bidding documents for signalling
and telecommunications equipment, the second major component, were never fully completed. Proposals
from consulting firms for all the technical assistance/studies were received, but awards were not made.
Except for part of items (i) and (iii) para. 3.5, no other component was completed.
3.11   These variances were the result of several systemic factors:
i)    considerable divergence between SNTF's procurement practices and bid documents and
those of the Bank. The officials were unable to agree on the required changes because
their documents had the stamp of governmental authority; this impediment would not
have hindered progress, if agreement had been reached at negotiations that the Bank's
procurement guidelines and standard bid documents were to be followed;
ii)    SNTF's operations and management are overshadowed by the MOT; therefore, the
implementing authority did not have any flexibility in project implementation, such as
changing certain clauses in the bidding documents, and making decisions on contract
awards (e.g. MOT constantly interfered and blocked the award of the Ramdane track
renewal contract),  tariff increases, or human resource planning.  Though the
overshadowing influence of the Government over the SNTF was known, the project
designers had apparently no inkling of how deeply-rooted it actually was.
iii)    Frequent changes in Director General, which had a trickle down effect on the
appointment of Directors and led to, inter alia, changing views on project components,
and terms of reference for studies.
iv)    Every preparation and evaluation of bidding documents had to go through a committee
of technicians (not managers), each member of which liked to "contribute" an "idea" with
the intent to seek better "protection" of SNTF's interests. This complicated the decision
process, making it very difficult for the other members to overrule the "ideas."
Conformity to Bank guidelines could hardly prevail. SNTF's project cell did its very best



on every occasion to steer clear of these retarding influences, but its position in SNTF's
hierarchy was so marginal that it could not play a leadership role in the implementation
process.
3.12   Several Bank management and sector missions in 1992 and early 1993 had tried very hard to find
reasonable solutions to SNTF's organizational, financial, procurement issues. The intractable stance taken
by the Government did not allow to extend the loan closing date, as had been hoped by SNTF and its
suppliers. This abrupt project ending bore adverse consequences on ongoing contracts. Inefficient
contract management by the Borrower and cumbersome local procedures for issuance of bank guarantees
had resulted in late implementation of Bank financed equipment contracts.  Some were still at
manufacturing stage by Loan Closing Date, as was the case for a major contract for locomotives which
had only become effective in November 1992, nearly a year after the Bank had sent its no objection.
Complaints were received by the Bank from suppliers realizing that the reliable source of financing that
Loan 2976-AL provided them with, had been pulled out. After carefully examining the merits of the
complaints, the Bank made a decision to disburse on an exceptional basis against invoices for works
completed before February 28, 1993. About US$ 11.1 million have been disbursed between the Loan
Closing Date and the July 30, 1993 final deadline set for disbursement.
Project Results
3.13   The project achieved success only in its support to the track maintenance effort but it failed in
most other counts, particularly in some of the institutional aspects. The promulgation of the Convention
Ferroviaire, which established the principle of compensation to be paid by the State for public service
obligations and infrastructure maintenance, was considered a success. However, SNTF still does not have
(i) a cost accounting system to back up its claims for compensation from the Government, (ii) an efficient
marketing strategy, because the cost accounting system does not exist, (iii) freedom for tariffs, because
of strangulatory State control, (iv) autonomy in personnel management, because personnel policies, salary
structure and even the appointment of the Director General are politically driven; (v) an acceptable project
evaluation and investment planning cell; and (vi) a modern computerized management information system.
These constraints, and the highly regulated environment in which it operates, make SNTF unable to
maintain its infrastructure. Recently, foreign exchange constraints have deprived SNTF of spare parts
for locomotive and rolling stock maintenance. The cumulative effect of these constraints is to render
SNTF vulnerable to competitive pressures of the ongoing transport liberalization.
Financial Performance
3.14   The project sought to improve financial management and to make the railways financially viable.
By 1987, SNTF had accumulated deficits and debts to the point of illiquidity. Taking the view that the
imprecision in the 1959 Convention as to the respective financial obligations of the Government and
SNTF was the main source of problems, the Bank insisted that it be replaced upfront by a new convention
which was approved by the Government in November 1987 and enacted by Decree of June 1988. The
new convention, however, failed to establish a clear distinction between the commercial function of the
railways and other functions, in the nature of public service, by which the Government would use SNTF
to achieve broader socio-economic objectives. The latter kept growing without the Government's abiding
by its commitment to compensate SNTF for corresponding costs.  Despite the upfront financial
restructuring that the Bank had also requested to recapitalize SNTF and reduce its indebtedness to
manageable proportions, this failure to properly disentangle the railway and the Government produced



the same disastrous results as those that prevailed before project launch. By loan closing date, SNTF was
again bankrupt with its future hinging on a new financial restructuring of unprecedented magnitude.
3.15   A comparison of actual versus forecast financial data (see Part III, F) shows the tremendous
impact of local inflation on the railways finance. The SAR forecast used constant prices, assuming that
tariffs would be revised as needed to neutralize inflation. Whereas working expenses measured in constant
dinars were to remain unchanged at AD 1.56 billion from 1987 to 1991, a higher productivity
compensating for costs generated by rising traffic (+2 percent annually for both passenger and freight),
the actual data show them soaring to AD 3 billion in 1991 in current prices, mainly from local inflation
(the price index rose by 66 percent during the period) and, to a much lesser extent, the failure to achieve
any significant productivity gains. In sharp contrast to costs, actual traffic revenues in table I are shown
to closely follow projection. The narrow path to financial recovery drawn at appraisal called for
cumulative tariff increases of 60 percent in real terms until 1991, and 150 percent in current dinars given
the actual inflation over the period, when SNTF was due to break even. Instead, the rail tariffs increased
by just 60 percent between 1987 to 1991, meaning that the real value of fares and rates barely changed
and that the expected tariff adjustment never took place. In 1991, the actual working ratio was 1.2 versus
a projection of 0.75.
3.16   The preliminary figures released for 19923 point to a further deterioration of the railways finance,
the working ratio rising to 1.6 despite tariff increases introduced in February 1992. The cumulative
deficit incurred over 1988-92 exceeded AD 4 billion. By then, it became clear that SNTF's condition
was unsustainable and the Government put it on the list of 22 critically imbalanced parastatals in need
of financial restructuring. The Bank overdraft had reached AD 2.2 billion in early 1993, from AD 0.6
billion a year before. The long-and medium-term debt could not be serviced. By end of 1991, the debt
outstanding amounted to AD 5.3 billion, and the short-term liabilities already included AD 3.5 billion
of unpaid debt service. Measures of temporary relief were taken by the Government in early 1993,
providing for freezing of the Bank overdraft, new credit facilities to finance working capital, and a AD
210 million subsidy. The tariff revision requested by the Bank to at least compensate for inflation was
not accepted. SNTF and the Government both feared that higher tariffs would trigger traffic diversion
to road and make things worse. The interim measures were to be complemented by in-depth financial
restructuring based on conclusions and recommendations of consultants assigned to carrying out a
technical and financial audit of the railways. Details on progress of the audit and on the financial
restructuring plan (estimated to require as much as AD 6-8 billion compared to AD 2.2 under the 1987
financial restructuring), were unknown at the time this report was finalized.
3.17   The lesson to be drawn from such a disappointing performance is that SNTF cannot be financially
viable unless its commercial function is properly insulated from interferences by the Government. The
pervasive influence of "public service" obligations was felt in many ways:  (a) there was a great
reluctance to increase passenger fares out of social concerns, evidenced from the beginning as they were
raised by only 5 % against the 20% average increase requested upfront by the Bank; (b) while inflation
was running at 13% annually, SNTF had to wait for two years until February 1991 to get approval on
higher tariffs;  (c) SNTF had to carry the cost of excess staff to avoid aggravating the national
unemployment problem; staffing was above 18,000 when 15,000 would have been enough as per SNTF's
management own admission; (d) across sectors decisions made by the Government, irrespective of
SNTF's absorption capacity, had a destabilizing impact on its finance, like the nationwide increase of
3/     More recent final data were requested from the borrower and will be incorporated if timely received.



salaries which boosted labor expenses from AD 1.8 billion in 1991 to AD 2.8 billion in 1992 (+55%);
(e) the level of operations was maintained at all costs; it was clear that narrow gauge lines were a major
source of financial deficit, and that a good third of freight stations and nearly 50% of passenger stations
had too little traffic to be profitable4, but they remained open anyway; (f) decentralization had become
the motto of Algerian policy, and SNTF underwent a thorough reorganization giving managerial
autonomy to provincial units and multiplying the number of wholly-owned subsidiaries; the new
corporate structure, ill conceived, loosened coordination of functions, relaxed financial discipline, and
generated more staffing needs and overhead costs.
3.18   Three basic conditions of successful implementation were missing throughout the Second Railway
Project: (a) a legal arrangement by which SNTF would essentially be assigned to pursue commercial
objectives and to carry out limited "public services" on Government request and upon assurances that
financial losses involved would be fully compensated; the 1988 Convention was flawed by the emphasis
it placed on balancing development across provinces and helping people exert their "right" to
transportation; (b) adequate financial management systems to properly measure the costs of specific
services, thereby enabling them to charge Government for those services provided at its request; SNTF
procrastination in recruitment of consultants to revamp its cost accounting system is hard to understand
because it was only by producing hard data that they could back their claims for higher subsidies; the
Government kept paying a fraction of costs that fell under its responsibility under the 1988 Convention:
the subsidy was raised from AD 337 million in 1988 to AD 650 million in 1992 which, then, represented
less than 40% of what SNTF had estimated as normal entitlements; (c) leadership by a strong railway
management team, capable of resisting undue pressure by Government; instead, frequent changes at the
top, definite weaknesses in personnel and financial management, and the failure to develop in-house
expertise on economic subjects as had been targeted under the Project, in combination with a typical
"civil service" culture, contributed substantially to deterioration of SNTF's finance.
Economic Revaluation
3.19   More than 90%  of investments carried out relate, in roughly equal shares, to routine track
maintenance ("draisines" mainly) and to shunting locomotives. The SAR concentrated on the economic
evaluation of other project items which were not implemented, giving few details on the calculation of
ERRs for track maintenance equipment which was a minor component totalling no more than 10% of total
project cost. The key assumption there was that, once rehabilitated, tracks could be maintained using
more capital intensive techniques, resulting in net productivity gains. The lack of details and the fact that
the case of yard locomotives had not been considered led to adopt a new approach to the economic
revaluation of Bank financed investments.
3.20   For shunting locomotives, benefits to be derived from the investment come from substituting a
specialized and more cost effective equipment to mainline locomotives, and from the favorable impact
it has on the turnaround time of freight cars thereby increasing their productive use. The existing fleet
includes 24 shunting locomotives more than 20-year old on average. They already had already a low
availability rate of less than 60% in 1991, and produced no more than a fourth of total yard movements
mostly performed by mainline locomotives. Regarding freight cars, insufficient shunting capacity was one
4/     50 stations out of 185 had daily operations of less than 10 tons per day in 1986, according to the Etude Nationale
des Transports, and 48% of passenger stations had daily revenues of less than AD 500 (in Volume III. Le
Transport Ferroviaire, pp. 5-7 and 5-20)



-10-
of many problems contributing to a rather slow turnaround time of more than 10 days for other than unit
train services, and it is assumed that the new shunting locomotives will help improve performance
marginally, and raise the average productivity of freight cars from about 250,000 ton kilometers per year
at present to 262,500 ton kilometers (+5%). Based on these two assumptions, the ERR is estimated as
13% (detailed calculations are in Annex 2).
3.21   For "draisines," which are basically used to transport workers and materials to routine track
maintenance sites, the benefits will come from reduction of idle time and, therefore, higher production
per worker and per day. The some 40 "draisines" purchased under the project are to be deployed
nationwide, and expected to cover a third of transport needs of all sectors constitutive of the maintenance
organization. The more efficient transport of maintenance crews will reduce the number of hours needed
to perform routine maintenance tasks such as grass and weed control, bush clearance, and partial
reballasting. It is assumed that labor costs will decrease by 10% overall, a conservative estimate, from
which gives an ERR of 17% is derived (detailed calculations are given in Annex).
Proiect Sustainability
3.22   The poor performance under the First Railway Project (Ln 0996; US$49m) and the five lessons
learnt have been explained (para. 3.2) provide a reflection on the difficult operating environment in
Algeria. Major staff reorganization resulting in changes in key personnel was a problem then, and
continues to be a problem. The lack of fiscal responsibilities (e.g. Government places a ceiling on tariffs
but does not compensate SNTF for consequential losses, in spite of the agreement under the
"Convention"), and chronic delays in tariff revisions still affect financial performance. SNTF is slow
to recognize merit in policies and practices followed abroad. There is limited willingness to change the
system and to adopt modifications suggested from outside, which makes it particularly vulnerable to
Government interferences designed to serve objectives unrelated to SNTF's interests, such as balanced
regional development, maintaining unprofitable rail services and overstaffing on socio-political grounds.
These deficiencies were not evident during project appraisal and at negotiation stage, despite the warning
signals given by the First Railway Project. Two essential components of the institution building targeted
under the project, namely setting up an investment planning cell and promoting better manpower planning
and human resource development, failed to materialize. Scarce resources remain misallocated to too many
uneconomical projects which, in the end, will inflate operating costs and aggravate the railway financial
condition. For the present, there appears to be not much hope for sustained development in the railway
subsector. This precludes the possibility of another railway project in the near future, unless specific
remedies (i) against inappropriate changes in key personnel and project design, (ii) against stifling of
SNTF's management autonomy, which requires that a Contrat-Plan satisfactory to the Bank be signed and
implemented, and (iii) for a vigorous application of the Bank's procurement procedures, are set in place.
Bank Performance
3.23   The project was well prepared by the Bank. Implementation difficulties, however, show that the
Borrower was not sufficiently involved at design stage and, at least for technical assistance, that project
ownership on its side was too shallow. Furthermore, by not being rooted in pre-agreed and well
articulated corporate plan, the project was more vulnerable to the shifting views of a succession of
SNTF's management teams. In hindsight, the main comment on the preparation would be that the project
should have been smaller in size and scope, given the history of an earlier failure and the country and
institutional risks involved.



11-
3.24   Supervision was intensive and adequate, although procurement issues could at times have been
handled more expeditiously. Growing frustration of having to deal with repetitive matters that showed
limited progress in the Borrower's acceptance of Bank guidelines, may have been a factor. Late responses
correspond to cases in which successive revisions of the bidding documents did not reflect the key
changes agreed; often changes in phraseology were made after an adequate French text had been agreed
upon and communicated, which necessitated very detailed verifications, renewed consultations within the
Bank on purely textual amendments. The track rehabilitation and the telecommunications bidding
documents, which went through several iterations of corrections and amendments because the Bank's
amendments were not adopted scrupulously, are typical examples. These are lessons to be remembered
for the future. Bidding documents for major contracts should be agreed upon before presentation of
projects to the Board, and the use of standard bidding documents should be mandatory through project
implementation. On a different subject, technical backstopping by the Bank was generally thorough, with
rare exceptions like when the terms of reference approved for the cost accounting study and the railway
traffic centralized management study were later found to partly duplicate. Finally, the Borrower never
complied with major loan covenants (for instance, the project has never been audited), which should have
led the Bank to take a tougher stance, including suspension of disbursement.
Borrower Performance
3.25   Several institutional factors which had an impact on project performance have been mentioned
earlier. The three most significant factors which militated against project success are: (i) the lack of
management autonomy for SNTF, all key issues being controlled by the MOT; (ii) the SNTF's
management commitment to the project becoming a function of the opinions of the manager currently in
charge; and (iii) most importantly, the commitment of senior officials to the views of their superiors
rather than to the project itself.
3.26   The Borrower showed limited adherence to Bank procurement rules, and displayed punctiliousness
in the execution of contracts with foreign suppliers, as a result of which some payments, particularly final
payments, were delayed and consignments were not cleared through the customs with normal expedition
(eg: draisines). Until half-way through project execution when the project cell was established, studies
and consultancy services included in the project were looked upon as unnecessary and unproductive.
3.27   In the dialogue during the project, it was clear that MOF had a better awareness of what the Bank
expected and the project needed. But MOT did not share the same sensitivity. This was most evident
during the last mission when they (i) refused to raise tariffs even to cover inflation till more studies had
been undertaken and (ii) blocked the initiation of a Contrat Plan for purely legalistic reasons. The
officials of SNTF would have gone ahead with those reforms, if they had had the autonomy to take a
decision of their own in this regard.
Project Documentation and Data
3.28   The loan agreements of future projects with SNTF should incorporate the main agreements listed
in the Action Plan, particularly as regards (i) the top management team, (ii) financial and operating
targets, and (iii) the use of the Bank for standard bidding documents. It should also add that the failure
to fulfill some of the key covenants may require the Bank to ask for some complementary assurances
from the Government in order to ensure continued project viability and institutional progress. Such a
provision is expressly needed as the officials of the MOT took the view that asking for additional reforms



-12-
like the Contrat Plan fell outside the purview of the loan agreement, hence the Bank had no right to ask
for such measures.
3.29   The SAR had several useful elements which helped the implementation.  In hindsight,
strengthening of the procurement section would have been useful.
Cofinancing
3.30   Cofinancing from the EXIM Bank of Japan (JEXIM) provided an addition of funds needed to fill
the financing gap. Insufficient coordination between JEXIM and the Bank contributed to project launch
delays. The three parties, SNTF, JEXIM and the Bank, had a very steep learning curve to traverse
before divergent requirements of the three institutions could be met. JEXIM Bank consists of several
constituent Banks, each one of whom asked for a separate loan guarantee from the Government which
refused the request. The adoption of the French language was another bone of contention. The delay
of 21 months was occasioned by these two and other similar reasons which can be traced to the lack of
familiarity of the institutional imperatives. JEXIM should have been invited to take active part in the
project negotiations and thereby all the three partners would have been clear about their cross-
requirements.



-13-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
PART II
SNTFs COMMENIS ON THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT5
The World Bank report draws the unabated conclusion that SNTF and the Ministry of
Transport bear full responsibility for failure of the Second Railway project,while it fully
exonerates the Bank.
This perception ought to be mitigated, if not changed, in order to give a better and more
balanced account of real facts.
The following comments are presented by SNTF from that perspective.
1.     Bank's Assessment of SNTFs Management
To avoid fruitless polemics, SNTF abstains from responding to the Bank's allegations of
mismanagement and, for the same reasons, does not pass any judgement on the Bank's
management.
2.     Project Implementation Amendments 1990-1994
These amendments were not due to a change of mind by SNTFs management but mainly
to the evolution of the country's economic situation and the constraints it imposed on the
enterprise.
3.     Delays suffered by the Project
Among the reasons given, it would seem sensible to mention the lack of coordination
between the World Bank and EXIM Bank of Japan.
VI/ By letter dated February 4, 1994, The Bank had requested preparation of part II by the
Borrower. This text is an unofficial tranalation of the reply received by the Bank on April 4,
1994 (the French original is in Annex 3. More detailed coments. including updating of seo
project data, were requested by the Bank in a fax dated April 25, 1994. At the ttle this PCR was
issued. no anawer had been received.



-14 -
Thus, following the loan agreement signature, it took more than a year to "negotiate"
with Japan's SANWA Bank, which blocked the project launching.
Another cause for delay was the Bank's slow answering to SNTF's correspondence.
Changing a sentence, sometimes a word, entailed slippages by several months.
4.    Amendments in the Project's contents
The Bank's explanation for these amendments was that "each manager found reasons
to change what his predecessor had agreed to."
We feel there are more logical reasons than those given by the Bank. These reasons
were given to the World Bank's management.
We thought that by endorsing the requested amendments, the Bank had accepted the
underlying rationale.
Otherwise, the Bank would have done better firmly opposing these amendments, now
considered unreasonable, rather than quoting them later as one of the basic reason for
project's failure.
5.    Studies which should have been launched
The various studies planned under the project have not been launched. In this regard,
it should be mentioned that, based on its review of the terms of reference of various studies,
the project management unit, set up by SNTF in September 1991, found many overlappings
and duplications.
The terms of reference had, however, been studied and approved by the World Bank.
As an example, the Rail Traffic Centralized Management project had called for a
diagnosis of accounting systems, also to be carried out under the cost accounting study.
The documents had to be revised to eliminate the duplications that the Bank had failed
to detect.
As regards the cost accounting study, it took the Bank many months to accept
SNTF's choice of the foreign consulting firm, for reasons which have not been given.



- 15 -
6.    Distrust towards foreign suppliers
In the past years, SNTF has passed hundreds of contracts with foreign suppliers
without feeling any "distrust" towards them.
Strict enforcement of contractual obligations is logical commercial practice, and there
was no proof that the foreign party cannot be trusted.
On the other hand, SNTF perceived reluctance by some suppliers to use the World
Bank's guidelines. One of them, the Austrian firm Plasser, even rejected the World Bank's
standard contract.
7.    Conclusion
SNTF considers the Second Railway Project Completion Report as particularly one-
sided in its assessment of the project failure causes which the report basically attributed to
the Algerian managers involved in project implementation.
SNTF repudiates such a view insofar as it does not take into consideration other more
decisive factors.



-16-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POCULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOD RAILIAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
PART III
A. PROJECT DATA
1. General
RVP Unit                     -    MENA
Sector                       =    Infrastructure - Transport
Subsector                    =    Railways
Borrower                     =    SNTF
Executing Agency                   SNTF
Fiscal year of the Borrower        =    January 1 - December 31
2. Related Bank loans and/or credits
Loan/Credit        Title           Purpose        Approved       Status
Ln. 0996-AL  First Railway      Rehabilitation                Closed Dec
l ___________   Project                                       31,   1982
Ln. 2808-AL  Fifth Highway
____ ___ ___ Project__         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 17-
3. Project Timetable
Item           Date Planned     Date Revised       Date Actual
Identification                                              01/12/87
Preparation         __03/23/87
Appraisal Mission       09/30/87                            09/30/87
Loan Negotiations       05/14/88                            05/14/88
Board Approval          06/24/88                            06/24/88
Loan Signature          12/31/88                            08/30/89
Loan Effectiveness                                          03/29/90
Loan Closing           12/31/1992       02/28/1993         02/28/1993
Loan Completion        04/30/1993       05/31/1993         06/30/1993
4. Loan Disbursements



- 18-
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US $ million)
FY8   FY90   FY91   FY9   FY9   FY94
9                      2      3
A. BANK
i) Appraisal Estimates       46      96      121    134   143       0
ii) Actual                    0       0       12     12    23       0
iii) Actual as a % of Estimate    0   0      10      9      16      0
B. EX-IM BANK JAPAN
i) Appraisal Estimate        15      33      41      45     47      0
ii) Actual                    0       0       0      4     2.0    2.0
iii) Actual as a % of Estimate    0   0       0      9      4       -
Date of final disbursement: 08/19/1993
Bi. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING (in US dollar million)
CATEGORY                APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                      LATEST         COMPLETI
l_ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _        O N
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total            %
1. track rehabilitation    51.5   68.2   119.7        0         0        0             0
2. track renewal       60.0      147.2   207.2        0         0        0             0
3. Signalling and      12.6       24.5   37.1         0         0        0             0
teleco. equipment                                                 _          _
4. Equipment for track   5.3      35.3   40.6    4.6(*)   30.9(*)   35.5(*)   87.4(*)
maintenance
5. Phosphate handling
equipment              1.0         2.1   3.1          0         0         0            0
6. Technical           16.3        6.4   22.7         0         0         0            0
assistance,training



19 -
7. Study tours       T___0.6   0.6                     0         0         0            0
TOTAL          1146.7 1   284.3   431.0   4.6 (*)   30.9        %35.5(*)  8  %)
(*) The revised project costs were computed on the basis of contracts approved, cross-referenced
with disbursement data. Detailed information on what they might have financed from their own budget was
not communicated by SNTF. It follows that the above data is incomplete. The problem essentially relates
to track renewal. Infrafer was renew the Beni Mansour-Setif-El Gourzi line (these works had been
estimated at a total cost of US$132 million). The exact extent and final cost of works carried out by
Infrafer are not known. Bank financed contracts were for track maintenance equipment. The local costs
borne by SNTF have been estimated as 15 percent of the foreign costs of contracts financed by JEXIM and
the Bank.
B2. PROJECT FINANCING
(US $ million)
Source                  Planned Loan               Revised Final
IBRD                              143,000,000               23,144,656.37
Cofinancing EXIM Japan            47,000,000                  7,798,859
Government                        241,000,000             not communicated
Total                             431,000,000             not communicated
C. PROJECT RESULTS
1. Direct Benefits
The project was intended to improve traffic conditions on the most trafficked lines.
Without the project, the railway infrastructure would deteriorate to the point of disrupting
traffic.
Direct benefits assessed at appraisal were:
- track rehabilitation and renewal:
(a) reduction of track maintenance costs (without the project, the useful life of
rail and sleepers would be shorter by about a third; more reballasting would be
needed);



- 20 -
(b) increased train speed and productivity, and lower maintenance costs for
rolling stock (savings of AD 1840-1020 per train/hour);
(c) increased traffic safety (reduction of derailings by 50%);
- signalling and telecommunications:
(a) increased safety and reduction of derailings;
(b) higher productivity of the rolling stock;
(c) labor costs savings due to increased automation;
- track maintenance equipment:
(a) routine mechanized maintenance to reduce costs by AD 30,000/km.
(b) labor-intensive periodic maintenance to be 2.7 times more expensive than
mechanized periodic maintenance.



- 21 -
2. Economic Impact
Component                    IRR: Appraisal Estimate                IRR: Actual
- Rehabilitation of the Annaba-
Ramdane Jamel track                18%                               not completed
(88km)
- Track renewal:
Beni Mansour-Setif                24%                                not completed
Setif-EI Gourzi                   22%
El Hadjar-Bouchegouf              22%
Bouchegouf-Souk Ahras             27%
- Signalling-Telecommunications           15%
- Track maintenance equipment             30%                                  17% & 13%
3. Financial Impact
Indicators:                         FY 1988                          FY 1991
forecast      actual           forecast        actual
- working ratio           1.01           1.11             0.75          1.23
- operating ratio         1.21          1.28               1.0          1.27



- 22-
D. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Status       Original     Revised      Description of Covenant   Comment
Type                  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
Loan:         3.03(a)   F           NC         12/01/89     -            Not later than 10/01/89    Consultancy proposals
Default                              employ consultants to     obtained from consultancy
design a cost accounting    firms, but an award was
system for railway        never made.
l__________    ___________  operations  and  tariffs.
3.03(b)   F           NC         12/31/90     07/93        Not later than 12/90,      Not complied with.
Default                             furnish the proposed cost
accounting system and
the timetable for
implementation to Bank
for its review.
5.02      F           NC         12/90        12/93        The borrower shall for     Reasons for non-
Default                             each of its fiscal year    compliance. (i) Default on
after FY ending on        the cost-accounting study.
12/90, take all steps to    (ii) failure of the
reach financial           Government to pay
equilibrium.              compensation as agreed in
the convention ferroviaire.
(iii) Failure to revise
tariffs adequately and in
time.
5.01(b/   F.          NC                                   Audit of SNTF accounts   SNTF requested the use of
c)                    Default                              special accounts and       project funds to pay for
OEs: SNTF should          external auditors. Even
furnish related audit     though this was agreed to
reports no later than 9   in 1992, the auditor was
months after the end of    not selected until 12/92 by
each fiscal year.         SNTF.



23..
E. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
1.   Summary
Planned                  Final
A. Through Appraisal                                                      98.4
Through Board Presentation                                              107.2
Through Effectiveness                      Not relevant because of excessive delay in
effectiveness.
Supervision                                    72.0          T          94.0
2.   Staff input and Maior Project Missions
Activity         Date      Staff input in  Composition       Overall       Problems
staff-days in                  Project Status
the field
Identification/      Jan 87          15           E, Ec, F           -              -
Preparation        March 87         42          E, E, Ec, F,
other
specialists                               l
Appraisal           Sep/Oct         68            E, Ec, F           -              -
87
Post Appraisal      Feb-Mar          5               E               -              -
88
Post Appraisal       Mar-            3               E               -              -
April 88
Supervision 1       10/31/88        28             E, Ec             1        Proc.
Supervision 2       Feb. 89          4            specialist         1              -
Supervision 3      March 89         40             E, Ec.            1        Proc.
Supervision 4        Oct 89          15              E               1        Proc.; Fin.
Supervision 5        Feb 90          3               E               1        Proc.; Fin.
Supervision 6       April 90         3               F               1        Proc.; Fin.
Supervision 7        July 90         8               F               1        Proc.; Fin.



24 -
Activity           Date        Staff input in     Composition          Overall          Problems
staff-days in                       Project Status
the field
Supervision 8           Dec 90             13                 E                 2          Proc.; Fin.
Supervision 9           Oct 91             10                 F                 3          Proc.; Fin.;
Mgmt.
Supervision 10         04/24/92           36              E, Ec, F              3          Proc.; Fin.;
Mgmt; Trans.
Policy
Supervision 12          May 92             6               Project              3          Proc.; Fin.;
Advisor,                        Mgmt; Trans.
Division Chief                     Policy
Supervision 13          Oct 93            24                E, F                4          Proc.; Fin.;
Mgmt; Trans.
Policy
Supervision 14          Feb 93            24           E, F, Division           4          Proc.; Fin.;
Chief                         Mgmt; Trans.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P o lic y
Note: A substantial part of supervision went to resolve procurement issues, which proved to be
serious impediments preventing the start-up of field works; the Algerians were invited to send
delegations to Washington as part of the supervision effort. There were three such missions, each of
which consisted of three experts for about 10 days each.



25
F. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS
SNTF  SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENT: actual versus forecast over 1988-1992
1988                     1989                          1990                       1991                1992
lorecast        actual    forecast        actual       forecast         actual    forecast        actual    provisional
)perating revenue:
traffic revenues                                     1432            1464      1602            1529          1810            1710      2041            2189      2512
other revenues                                         40              27        40             266           40              253        40             409       338
subsidies (tracks)                                    337             224       340             350          342              450       345             520       6so
subtotal                                        1809            1715      1982            2145          2192            2413      2426            3118      3500
.Vorking expenses:
labourcosts                                          1049            1137      1033            1444         101a             1s89      1018            1821      2805
materials. supplies                                   211             2t8       216             344          221             432        227             848      1019
other expenses                                         30               6        30               8           30                7        30              13        14
taxes                                                 200             219       224             260          253             296        286             35s       31B
sub total                                       1490            1651      1503           2056          1520            2423       1561            3036      4156
Depreciation                                           289             256       300             272           535             249       559             271       289
7otal operating expenses                              1779            1907      1803            2328          2055            2672      2120            3307      4445
Interest                                               226             319       222             318           241             567       240             640       680
Exceplional items (net)
subsidy                                               196
others                                                  0            -302         0             252            0              350         0           -424
sub total                                       196            -302         0             252             0             350         0            -424        30
0           -813       -43            -249          -104            -476        66           -1253
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                                    0            -813       -43            -249         -104            -476         33           -1253    -1595
NET INCOME AFTER TAX
,atios:
- with subsidies working rstlo                       0.82            0.96      0.76            0.96          0.69               1      0.64            0.97      1.19
operating ratio                             0.98            1.11      0.91            1.09          0.94            1.11      0.87            1.06      1.27
-less subs,dies: working ratic                       1.01            1.11      0.92            1.15          0.82            1.23      0.76            1.17      1.46
: operating ratio                            1.21            1 28       1.1             1.3          1.t1            1.36      1.02            1.27      1.56
1Jotes on the 6tatement:
actual financial deta are nunaiduted: the accounting treatment may not be fully consistent
8orm one year to another, their accuracy is uncerlain (the Financial restructuring plan
dentified some accounting errors, and adjusted the FY91 lose to DA 1.8 billion.
lepreciat,on is based on historical values: 'other revenues' may be wrongly taken as operating revenues.
m \sylvie\sntl



-26 -
SNTF     SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET: actual versus forecast over 1988-1991
1988              1989               1990               1991
forecast   actual forecast   actual forecast   actual forecast   actual
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash                              215       98      240       173      272        47      306       60
Customers                         399     081      374      1175      256      1155      290      1102
Others                            300      222      300       270      300      1795      300      485
Stores                            369      399      324       491      332       650      341      1152
sub-totaL                     1283     1800     1238     2109      1160     3646      1237     2798
Fixed assets
Infrastructure:
gross value           44037    14553    46357    16832    48657    17812    50957    24037
accuu.deprec            562      486      631       486      864         0     1108         0
net value             43475    14067    45726    16347    47793    17812    49849    24037
RolLing stock, etc...
gross value            6631     5635     6896      5924      7196     9534     7511      6587
aceuL.deprec           1518     1357     1749      1584     2051      1824     2366      Z082
net value              5113     4279     5147      4340     5145      7710     5145      4505
sub-total                   48588    18346    50873    20687    52938    25523    54994    28542
Other assets: net vaLue                 871      955      m        1030      871         5      871         5
Total assets                   50742    21100    52982    23825    54969    29173    57102    31345
LIABILITIES
Short term Items                       1105     1791     1084      2660      943      4912      790     5174
Provisions                                2        0        2         0        2         0        2.       0
Long term debt                         518C     5646     5150      5757     5065      5797     5004     5334
Equity & retained earnings            44455    13663    46747    15408    48957    18463    51305    20837
Total liabIlltles              50742    21100    52983    23825    54967    29173    57101    31345
Ratios:
-.---Current ratio                        1.16     1.00     1.14      0.79      1.23     0.74     1.57      0.54
Quick ratio                     0.83      0.78     0.84     0.61      0.88     0.61      1.13     0.32
Debt to equity ratio            10/90    29/71    10/90    27/73      9/91    24/76      9/91    20/80
C:sntf



27 -
G. OPERATING PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS
GI - GENERAL TRAFFIC DATA
1986       1987      1988        1989       1990      1991    Annual
growth rate
_________  _________                             ~~~~~~~~~1986-9  1
A. PASSENGERS (million)
a. Suburban                    38.7       36.2       36.9       42.8       41.8      41.0        1.2%
b. Main lines                  8.0        7.1        8.0        9.7        11.9      16.8       16.0%
Total                          46.7       43.2       44.9       52.5       53.7      57.8       4.4%
B. PASSENGERS/KMS (million)
a. Suburban                   1045.7     1004.8     1119.8     1193.0     1234.3     848.6      -4.1%
b. Main lines                 989.8      967.5      1319.2     1530.8     1756.5    2343.4      18.8%
Total                         2035.5     1972.3    2439.0      2723.8     2990.8    3192.0       9.4%
C. AVERAGE DISTANCE TRAVELLED (km)                                                                       l
a. Suburban                    27.0       27.8       30.3       27.8       29.5      20.7       -5.2%
b. Main lines                 123.9       137.2     164.9      151.8       147.6     139.4       2.4%
General Average                43.6       45.6       54.3       51.8       55.7      55.2        4.8%
D. FREIGHT (metric ton '000)                                                                             l
a. ores                       3123.0     3079.2    2950.3      2830.4     2855.5    2460.8      -4.7%
b. phosphates                 1146.0     1233.7    1379.2      1214.1     1129.7    1142.1      -0.07%
c. fully loaded railcars      198.0      8492.5    8771.9      8518.8     8372.1    8335.8       3.3%
Total                         12467.0    12805.4   13101.4    12563.3    12357.3   11938.7    -0.9%
E. TONS KMS  (million)
a. ores                       474.4      489.6      466.3      434.6      490.2      441.3      -1.4%
b. phosphates                 393.0      420.5      467.5      411.6      382.9      384.9      -0.4%
c. fully loaded railcars      2066.3     2026.8     1880.2     1851.6     1816.7    1883.9      -1.8%
Total                         2933.7  | 2936.9    2814.0       2697.8     2689.8    2710.1      -1.6%
F. AVERAGE DISTANCE TRAVELLED  (km)
a. ores                        151.9      159.0     158.0       153.5      171.6     179.3       3.4%
b. phosphates                 342.9      340.8      339.0      339.0      333.0      336.9      -0.4%
c. fully loaded railcars      252.0      238.7      214.3      217.3      216.9      226.0      -2.2%
General Average            |  235.3   |  229.3      214.7      214.7      217.6      227.0      -0.7%
Source - SNTF



_28
G2 - TRAFFIC CHARACTERISTICS AND SELECTED PERFORMANCE INDICA'rORS
1987                       1992                    Change 86-92
TFotal traffic units (million TU)              4909                        5426                      +10.5%
Pass km as a % of TU's                         40%                         54%                       +35 %
Number of rolling stock:
- main line locomotive                          200                        206                         +3%
- wagons                                       13186                       10042                      -23.9%
- passenger coaches                             620                         674                       +8.7%
Railway staff                                  18796                       18046                       -4%
TU's per staff ('000)                           261                         300                      + 14.9%
1987                        1989                       1992
actual                 forecast actual                 actual
Equipment availability (average):
- diesel locomotives                           90%                90%tc            91 %                85%
- electric locomotives                         75 %c              75 %             65.7 %              n.a.
- shunting locomotives                        74.5 %              77%              55 %                n.a.
- railcars                                     94%             1  97%              88%                 90%
- passenger coaches                            89%                92%7C            87%                 77 %
Km per locomotive and per day:
- diesel                                       290               296               300                  n.a.
-electric                         J120                           120               93                  nia.
iources   SAR
- Dar Al-Handasah-Bedat. National Transport Study. Volume 3 "Transport Ferroviaire"
- IBRD - Infrastructure Notes - Transport No.RW-6



Annex 1
- 29 -                                Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
Track Renewal on Ramdane Diamel-Annaba Section
Brief Summary of the Chronology of this Project Component
1988-89
1.    This project went to the Board in May 1988. The first version of the bid document (BD) was
reviewed in the Bank in June 1988. The document was a confused mixture of Austrian, French, and
Algerian bid documents. Consequently, extensive comments and corrections had to be provided. A
mission came from SNTF to Washington in July 1988 and these comments were explained to them
and a CODy of Bank's SBD was given to them with the request that they follow it closely.
2.    The discussions were continued during subsequent missions (October 88, May 89, etc.) and
in several regular phone calls from Washington. The basic problem was that SNTF was unwilling to
follow the standard bidding document and refused to amend certain key clauses, e.g.: (i) the currency
of the bid; (ii) open competition for ocean freight and insurance; and (iii) contractor being obliged
to recruit only local personnel etc. The revised BD received in May 1989 was found to contain
several unacceptable clauses (some of them the old bones of contention) and was once again
commented on at great length in June 1989.
1989-90
3.    In June-July 1989, the new D.G. of SNTF insisted on adding a totally new technical variant,
even though prima facie it appeared to be a costlier option. The Bank asked SNTF to work out the
detailed engineering of this new variant in 1989. In reality. this engineering work was completed only
in March 1991. This delay was due to: (i) SNTFs refusal to pay the consultant until he delivered
the entire document and the consultant's refusal to give up the document until he was paid his due
up to that point; (ii) SNTF trying to negotiate a grant from the Austrian Government to pay the
consultant and the delay in the approval of this grant; (iii) SNTF's refusal to finance it out of our
loan (which would have saved at least 6 months) as the Austrian financing was a grant. The total
delay caused by this modification: July 89-March 91. The Bank suggested the use of project funds;
the offer was not accepted by SNTF.
4.    In the meantime (between July 1989 and April 1990), the process of pre-selection went on
with innumerable telexes and phone calls and at least 2-3 rounds of comments and corrections of the
pre-selection questionnaire and shortlist.
5.    Also, in the meantime the revised BD was received in April 1990, reviewed in the Bank at
all concerned levels in great detail given the history of the Borrower's inflexibility, the high value of
theprocurement and the complicated nature of the project (which includes a substantial supply of
goods and two technical variants of the works). In view of the extensive nature of the corrections



-30 -                                      Anex I
Page 2 of 2
of the BD, and SNTFs unwilingness to accept them, SNTFs procurement expert came to
Washington in May 1990. After a week of discussions, he left with a xerox of SNTFs BD will all the
amendments suggested by the Bank pencilled in. He was requested to send a corrected version for
final review. A mission went to Algeria six months later in December 1990 and even then the BD
had not been revis  The reason was, "in any case, the detailed engineering for Variant 2 will take
some more time."
1991
6.    When the detailed engineering was finally delivered by the consultant in March 1991, SNTF
called for bids from the pre-selected firms and the calendar of the main events which followed is
given below:
(i)     Bid opening: June 30, 1991
Two bids did not have valid bid security.
(ii)     SNTFs question on bid security: July 10, 1991
(iii)    Bank's reply to SNTFs question: July 19, 1991
(iv)     Exchange of telexes on questions related to evaluation: July to September 1991.
(v)     Bank declares two bids non-responsive for reasons of invalid bid security, deviation
from the bid currency clause, etc.: September 26, 1991.
(vi)     SNTFs ER received: November 25, 1991.
The ER was based on prices negotiated after bid opening and using wrong evaluation
criteria.
(vii)    Bank's telex suggesting the reinvitation of the bids: December 4, 1991.
1992
(i)     SNTF invites second round of bids after cleaning up the BD: April 6, 1992
(ii)     Second round bid opening: May 18, 1992.



- 31 -                               Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2976-AL)
Economic Revaluation of Investment in Maintenance Equipment
Acquisition of "draisines"
1.    The 40 "draisines" purchased under the project will be assigned to transport of track
maintenance crews. The SNTF's organization for track maintenance includes 4 regional units
(URIFs), themselves subdivided in sections, districts, and sectors which constitute the basic work
units. There are some 175 sections controlling a work force of 20 each. Given the total length of the
network, each section covers about 25 kilometers of track. The 40 draisines will be based at district
level, hence covering two third of crews transport needs. The new equipment will bring advantages
in terms of higher reliability and extended coverage of needs. Accordingly, the time crews are actually
working is expected to increase by 30 minutes from the current effective average of 4 hours and 30
minutes per day (+11%). Other benefits will come from reduced maintenance costs as the new
"draisines" will replace old ones. These benefits are calculated as 20%o of current maintenance costs
which is equivalent to 1.25% of the investment.
2.    The routine track maintenance budget for 1992 was estimated as AD 1.1 billion, 35% of
which consisted of labor. The savings to follow commissioning of the new draisines will be equivalent
to AD 28.2 million per year (1.1 times 0.35 times 2/3 times 0.11), revised to AD 42.3 million in 1994
prices. The investment in 'draisines" corresponds to AD 254.5 million (at an exchange rate of
US$1=AD24), and annual savings on maintenance amount to AD 3.2 million. Because the
equipment will be commissioned to traffic by mid-1994, benefits in year 1 will be half of those
expected during each of the first 10 years of the equipment economic life which normally extends
over 25 years if maintenance is done properly. Beyond year 10, the performance of the draisines is
likely to deteriorate and net benefits are due to erode. Instead of assessing the speed at which this
process will take place, a complex analysis of limited consequences given the heavy effect of
discounting in late years, the calculation was simplified by taking a residual value of the investment
at the end of year 10. Using digressive depreciation common to this type of equipment, the residual
value was calculated as AD 93.7 million ( 37% of the initial investment). The economic rate of
return (ERR) is 17%. Further details are given in the table hereunder.
Table 1. Economic evaluations of investment in new draisines
(in AD million)
Benefits
Year      Investment       O & M              Crew costs       Net benefits
1          (-254.48)     1.59              21.15                (-231.73)
2 thru 9                    3.18              42.31                 45.49
10           93.66        3.18              42.31                 139.15
ERR= 17.0 %



32 _
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Acquisition of shunting locomotives
2.     SNTF is faced with a shortage of shunting locomotives which are imperfectly substituted by
mainline locomotives (they carry out 80% of yard movements) and contribute to increase the idle time
of freight cars, especially those used on other than unit train services.
(a)    The 8 yard locomotives are expected to have a combined annual production of 240,000
kilometers at an availability rate of 85% starting mid-1994. Without the new locomotives,
the same level of operations as now would need being maintained, and more reserve
mainline locomotives would have to be utilized at a much higher cost. The capital cost
of shunting locomotives is a third of that of mainline ones and, assuming each having an
average production of 30,000 kilometers per year, the capital savings generated by the
investment is estimated as AD 81.25 per kilometer and shunting locomotive and AD 19.5
million per year altogether (interest on capital is taken at 12% and taxes are excluded).
The new shunting locomotives will also allow savings on fuel consumption and
maintenance, estimated at a cost of 5% of the investment for them against 6% for
mainline locomotives. The corresponding annual saving is of AD 10.2 million.
(b)    The existing fleet of 24 shunting locomotives is more than 20-year old on average and
only managed to produce 300,000 kilometers in 1989 with an availability rate of 65%.
By 1991, the availability rate had dropped to 55%, which allows to conclude that the 8
new locomotives will have a production more or less equivalent to the whole fleet
operated at present. It is assumed that 8 of the least performing locomotives will be
scrapped following introduction of the new ones in the fleet. The remaining 16 will keep
producing a total of 180,000 kilometers annually, raising the overall specialized shunting
capacity to 480,000 kilometers, or twice as much as to date. The average productivity
of freight cars is around 25,000 kilometers annually, and as low as 15,000 kilometers for
those used for general cargo. The Moroccan railways have a productivity twice as high,
which could be matched by the Algerian railways through reducing the abnormally high
turnaround time of freight cars. Many factors combine to the low performance to date
and the responsibility attributable to shunting capacity limitations is estimated to be 20%.
Shunting operations will be enhanced by the arrival of project financed locomotives.
Assuming that shunting locomotives will be a third more productive than the old ones,
and given their 15 % share of total shunting operations, it seems reasonable to expect that
they will raise the productivity of freight cars by 1 % (0.15 times 0.33 times 0.2). In
1989, the economic cost per freight car/kilometer was calculated around AD 2, updated
to AD 5 in 1994 prices. The annual savings for the whole fleet of 10,050 freight cars is
thus estimated as AD 12.5 million (10,050 times AD5 times 25,000 kms times 1 %)
(c)    The analysis extends over 15 years at the end of which the initial investment of AD 306
million (US$1=AD24) has a residual value of AD 66.5 million (using digressive
depreciation over an economic life of 25 years). As for "draisines", the locomotives
would be put in service in mid-1994 and the benefits earned during that year would be
half of those earned in the next 14 years.



-33-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Table 2 summarizes the calculation which leads to an ERR of 13%.
Table 2. Economic evaluation of the investment in shunting locomotives
(in AD million)
Benefits
Year      Investment      capital/O & M          freight cars     Net benefits
1          (-306)          14.84                  6.25                (-284.91)
2 thru 14                     29.68                   12.5                  42.18
15            66.5          29.68                  12.5                 108.68
ERR = 13%



-34_             ~inex 3
SOCIETE NATIONALE                      ALGER, LE        Page 1 sur 3
DES TRANSPORTS FERROVIAIRES
_____________
DIRECTION GENERALE
Commentaire de la SNTF
sur le rapport d'achevement
du 2eme projet ferroviaire
La lecture du rapport de la Banque Mondiale fait
nettement ressortir que l'echec du 2eme projet ferroviaire est
totalement imputable a la SNTF et au Minist&re des Transports,
la Banque jugeant pour sa part avoir parfaitement accompli sa
mission.
Cette vision des choses merite certainement d'etre
attenuee, voire corrig6e, afin de mieux cerner une realit6
beaucoup plus nuancee.
C'est dans cette optique que les commentaires succincts
suivants sont formul6s par SNTF.
1. Appr6ciations de la Banque sur les responsables SNTF.
Afin d'eviter toute pol6mique sterile, SNTF s'abstient
de r6pondre aux "appreciations" de la Banque sur la comp6tence
et l'engagement des dirigeants de l'Entreprise et, dans le meme
souci, elle ne porte aucune appr6ciation sur les cadres de la
Banque qui ont eu a gerer ce projet.
2. Modifications du Plan de d6veloppement 1990-1994.
Les modifications subies par le plan de developpement
1990-1994 sont dues non pas "aux vues changeantes et a court
terme des responsables" mais pour l'essentiel a l'evolution de
la situation 6conomique du pays et aux contraintes qui en ont
decou1 pour l'Entreprise.



-35 -                       Annex 3
Page 2 sur 3
3. Retards pris par le projet.
Parmi les causes evoquees, il y a lieu a notre sens
d'ajouter l'absence de coordination entre la Banque Mondiale et
1'EXIM BANK du Japon.
C'est ainsi qu'apres la signature de l'accord de pret,
il a fallu n6gocier pendant plus d'une annee un "arrangement
bancaire" avec la SANWA BANK du Japon, ce qui a retarde
d'autant le d6marrage du projet.
Une autre cause de retard r6side dans la lenteur des
r6ponses de la Banque aux correspondances de la SNTF, le
changement d'une phrase, parfois d'un mot, entraina un ripage
de delais de plusieurs mois.
4. Changements dans le contenu du projet.
La Banque explique les changements intervenus dans le
projet par le fait que "chaque Directeur trouvait des raisons
de changer ce que son predecesseur avait convenu".
Nous estimons qu'il y a des raisons plus logiques que
celles avanc6es par la Banque, raisons qui ont et6 expos6es en
leur temps aux responsables de la Banque.
Nous avions cru comprendre qu'en donnant son aval aux
modifications   demandees,   la   Banque   avait   admis   leur
recevabilit6 sur des criteres rationnels.
Sinon, il aurait ete plus coh6rent pour la Banque de
s'opposer fermement a ces changements maintenant consideres
comme irrationnels, que de les citer plus tard comme une des
causes fondamentale de l'echec du projet.
5. Non lancement des etudes.
Les diverses 6tudes pr6vues au projet non pas et6
lancees. A cet effet, il y a lieu de noter que la structure
contr8le de gestion de la SNTF, mise en place en Septembre
1991, a constat6, en examinant les termes des ref6rences des
diverses 6tudes, qu'il y avait plusieurs chevauchements et
double emplois.
Ces termes de ref6rence avaient pourtant 6te 6tudies et
approuves par la Banque Mondiale.



-36_                    Annex 3
Page 3 sur 3
A titre de simple exemple, le projet GCTF prevoyait un
diagnostic des systemes comptables, qui etait egalement prevu
dans 1'etude de comptabilite analytique.
Il a donc fallu reprendre les dossiers pour 6liminer
les doubles emplois non detectes par la Banque.
Par ailleurs, s'agissant plus particulierement de la
comptabilit6 analytique, le choix par SNTF du groupement
frangais SOFRERAIL SFC CEGOS n'a ete accepte par la Banque
qu'apres de nombreux mois et ce pour des raisons non pr6cisees.
6. M6fiance & l'qgard des fournisseurs 6trangers.
SNTF a, au cours des dernieres annees, passe sans
probleme des centaines de march6s de tout type avec des
fournisseurs etrangers et n'a jamais eprouve de "mefiance" a
leur egard.
La stricte application d'une disposition contractuelle
est un acte commercial logique et non une preuve de m6fiance
vis a vis de l1etranger.
Par contre, SNTF a note une r6ticence de certains
fournisseurs vis a vis des proc6dures de la Banque Mondiale,
l'un d'entre eux, en l'occurrence l'Entreprise Autrichienne
Plasser, ayant meme refuse le contrat type Banque Mondiale.
7. Conclusion.
SNTF considere que le rapport de cl8ture du 2eme projet
ferroviaire est particulierement partial dans la d6termination
des  causes  de  1'6chec  de  ce  projet;   echec  qui  est
fondamentalement impute aux responsables algeriens intervenant
-au niveau des diff6rentes structures concern6es.
SNTF refute cette vision dans la mesure ou d'autres
parametres, plus d6cisifs, n'ont pas ete pris en consideration.



