Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7027-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
May 26, 1988
Infrastructure Operations Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
*   s  * | * . . I 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1987)
Currency Unit                               Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1                                        DA 5.00
DA 1                                        US$0.20
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                 British/US System
1 meter (m)                     =             3.28 feet (ft)
l kilometer (km)                              0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)           =             0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (ton)              =             2,205 pounds (lb)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
BAD           -    Banque Algérienne de Développement
BNA           -    Banque Nationale d'Algérie
CALTRAM       -    Compagnie Algéro-Libyenne de Transports Maritimes
DIE           -    Directions de l'Infrastructure et de l'Equipement
(Wilaya)
ENESA         -    Entreprise Nationale d'Aéronautique
ER            -    Economic Rate of Return
ERENAV        -    Entreprise Nationale de Construction Navale
GTT           -    Gross trailed tons
INFRAFER      -    Entreprise Nationale de Réalisation
d'Infrastructures Ferroviaires
MOC           -    Ministry of Commerce
MOF           -    Ministry of Finance
MOI           -    Ministry of Interior
MOT           -    Ministry of Transport
MPW           -    Ministry of Public Works
SNTF          -    Société Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SNTM/CNAN     -    Socié&té Nationale des Transports Maritimes
SNTM/HYPROC   -    Société Nationale des Transports Maritimes
(Pétrole et gaz)
SNTR          -    Société Nationale des Transports Routiers
SNTV          -    Société Nationale des Transports de Voyageurs



roa oICILQ Un Ony
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                               i
I.     THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......        ..........................    1
A.  The Transport System ......        .......................    !
B.  Transport Organization ...........................       2
C.  Transport Investments ............................       3
D.  Sector Issues      ............................          5
E.  Previ)us Bank Projects ...........................       6
II.     THE RAILWAY ...........      ...............................    7
A.  General         ............................             7
B.  Traffic         ............................             8
C.  Railway Property ...................                     8
D.  Maintenance of Plant and Equipment   .       .12
E. Investment Program    .              .13
F.  Organization and Management    .         .14
G.  Human Resources Planning, Development
and Utilization   .              .16
H. Operations   .                   .17
I. Uneconomic Lines    .               .18
J. Costs and Tariffs   .               .19
K. Accounts and Audit   .               .19
III.     TUE PROJECT........................................          21
A.  Background ............................... .......   21
B.  Project Objectives ............ ................. -    21
C.  Project Description ..............................   22
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing .....................   25
E.  Implementation and Action Plan ...................  27
F.  Procurement .....................................   29
G.  Disbursements ....................................   31
H.  Environmental Impact .............................   32
IV.     ECONOM¶IC EVALUATION.................................       32
A.  General .......................................   32
B.  Traffic Growth ...................................   33
C.  Track Rehabilitation and Renewal .................   34
D.  Signalling and Telecommunications ................  34
E.  Economic Return ..................................   35
F.  Project Risk .....................................   36
This report is based on the findings of missions to Algeria in June and
October 1987 composed of Roy Knighton (Senior Transport Economist),
Mohindra Bery and Jean Claude Gross (Consultant Railway Engineers), Jean de
Gryse (Consultant Financial Analyst) and Jean Pierre Noël (Consultant
Transport Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
Page No.
V.     FINANCIAL EVALUATION .. ..............................    37
A. Relationship between State and SNTF
and Institutional Matters       .....................    37
B.  Past Financial Performance ..................   ....    40
C.  Forecast Financial Performance ...        ...............   44
D.  Sensitivity ..       ...................................    46
VI.     RECOMMENDATIONS         .....................................    47
ANNEXES
1. Action Plan                ....49
2.  Railway Investment Program 1985-89          .    .     .66
3.  Human Resources Planning and Development        . . .72
4. Railway Operations                      ...  81
5.  Routine Track Maintenance Eqvipment ....................    85
6. Economic Evaluation               . . .89
7.  Financial Details         ........................................   111
8.  Terms of Reference: Cost Accounting ...         ...................  124
9.  Transport Projects Previously Financed by the Bank .......  130
10. List of Project File Documents ...............   ............   134
TABLES
1.  Rail Passenger Traffic .......       ............................   136
2.  Rail Freight Traffic (FCL) ............. .. ................  137
3.  Rail Traffic (FCL) Broken Down by Commodity Types . .......  138
4.  Locomotive Stock - 1987 ..................................   139
5.  Rolling Stock Ownership - December 31, 1986 ....       ..........  140
6.  Line Capacity Characteristics: 1986 .....        .................   142
7. Traction and Rolling Stock: Maintenance Installation
and Production .............................                   .............   143
8.  Maintenance Stores Procurement .......       ....................   145
9.  SNTF Annual Transport Plan: 1987 Forecast ....       ............  146
10. Wagon turnround ..........................................   147
11. LCL Traffic: August - December 1986 ......       ................  148
12. Operational Performance Data: 1986 ......       .................  150
13. Gross Trailed Traffic 1967 - 1986 ......       ..................  151
14. Quantities of Track Material to be Procured ....       ..........  152
15. Disburseïaent Schedule ...........    .........................   153
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart - SNTF 1987
2. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 19945 - Algeria - Second Railway Project
OO82d <Text>
0044d/00Sd (Annexes)



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Sumary
BORROWER:             Société Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF)
GUARANTOR:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
AMOUNT:               US$143 million
TERMS:                Repayable in 15 years including f ive years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives:  The proposed project  forms  part  of  a broader more
comprehensive   approach   to  Bank  lending  in  the
transport sector.  Among the major policy objectives
to be pursued under the proposed project is the need
to rationalize the railway investment program and to
give adequate priority to rehabilitation of the net-
work. Secondly, high priority is being given to the
financial restructuring of the railway and the need to
implement a new railway convention (contract plan)
which sets out the objectives and actions agreed
betweer the Government and the railway, particularly
in relation to pricing, compensation, responsibilities
for investment, and depreciation charges for railway
infrastructure.   Specific project objectives are: (a)
rehabilitation of key sections of the main railway to
meet demand at reasonable efficiency; (b) improvement
of investn'e-t planning; (c) financial viability of the
railway; and (d) improvement of managerial, organiza-
tional and operational staff capabilities.
Proiect Description: The proposed project would include financing of the
following high priority components: (a) about 60 of
the Government's three-year program (mid-'988 to
mid-1991)   for  track  rehabilitation  and  renewal
covering 370 km of main line track; (b) support for a
program of modernization of signalling and tele-
communications including the installation of inter-
locking systems on selected sections of the main line;
(c) provision of equipment to establish a capacity for
mechanized   track   maintenance;   and   (d) tech..ical
assistance and training to support routine track
maintenance  activities,  for  the  establishment  of



-ii -
a  cost-accounting  system  and  for  improving  the
planning, management and operation of the railway
system. The total cost of the project with cantingen-
cies is estimated at US$431 million with a foreign
exchange  cost  of  US$190 million.   The Bank loan of
US$143 million would cover about one-third of total
project coste and 752 of the foreign exchange cost.
The   balance   of   the   foreign   exchange    cost
- US$47 million - is currently being sought from the
Japan   Ex-Im   Bank   under   a   joint   co-financing
arrangement.    Local   costs   in   the   amount   of
US$241 million vould be financed from the investment
budget.
Benefits and Risks:  Support  in  restruocturing  the  railway  financially,
institutionally    and    operationally,    constitutes
adequate justification for the proposed project. Bank
involvement will help lower the burden on the Govern-
ment's budget by increasing operational efficiency,
improving the railway's finances and restructuring the
railway  investment  program.   Economic  benefits  from
the track rehabilitation and renewal programs accrue
in the form of substantial savings in deferred
maintenance costs which would otherwise be necessary
to keep  the  lines  open  to traffic,  as well as in
savings in train operating costs and a reduction in
derailments.   The  modernization  of  signalling  and
telecommunications will also contribute to increased
efficiency and improved safety as well as capacity
benefits on suburban lines  near Algiers.   The main
risk is that the railway is slow to implement the
rehabilitation    and    institutional    strengthening
programs.   However,  given that the project finances
the highest priority items of the investment program
and that the project action plan would closely monitor
investment allocation,  the risks are manageable.   In
addition, a financial restructuring of the railway has
recently  been  implemented  and  a  related  railway
convention will  be signed shortly.   Confirmation to
this effect has been  received  from  the  Government.
Financial objectives are included as covenants in the
loan agreement and specific finar.cial targets and the
terms of the railway convention are included in the
Project Action Plan.



- iii-
Esti.ated Costs: 1/
Local      Foreign       Total
-       - US$ million
Track Rehabilitation                 59.4       44.9         104.3
Track Renewal                       135.9       54.4         190.3
Signalling/Telecommunications        11.9       23.6          35.5
Track Maintenance Equipment           5.2       33.6          38.8
Phosphate Terminals                   1.0        2.0           3.0
Technical Assistance and Training   6.9         15.4          22.3
Sub-total                      220.3       173.9         394.2
Physical Contingencies                9.6        7.4          17.0
Price Contingencies                  11.1        8.7          19.8
Total                           241.0      190.0         431.0
Financing Plan:
Local      ForeiRn       Total
TT- US$ million
World Bank                            -        143.0         143.0
Japan Ex-Im Bank                      -         47.0          47.0
Government                          241.0        -           241.0
Total                           241.0      190.0         431.0
Estimated Disbursements: 2/
IBRD FY         1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
Annual                            46.0     50.0      25.0     13.0       9.0
Cumulative                       46.0      96.0    121.0    134.0    143.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Track and Signalling/Telecomuinications programs:
22%
1/ Includes taxes and duties of about 15S
2/  Disbursements of Bank Loan covering 75% of foreign exchange cost.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR l/
A. The Transport Syste.
1.01     For its domestic transport needs, Algeria relies on all modes of
transport including road, rail, coastal shipping, gas and oil pipelines and
aviation.   Shipping  and  aviation  dominate  international  traffic  while
pipelines move natural gas across the Mediterranean to Italy.   With tne
importance of import traffic, the main transprrt flows are organized around
the country's principal ports with little long distance movement within the
country.   However,  an  increasing  emphasis  on  the  development  of  local
production and import substitution, particularly of basic commodities, will
cause a shift in the pattern of transport flows and the railway is expected
to continue to play an important role in supporting the development of the
economy.   As  such,  the  railway will  meet  an  increasing inter-regional
demand for bulk traffic generated by the movement of commodities such as
steel products, fertilizers and cereals.
1.02     The  transport  network  is extensive  and  includes  44,000 km  of
primary (national) and secondary (regional) roads, of which about 80% are
paved, 33,000 km of local (community) roads, 3,700 km of railways, 5,000 km
of oil and gas pipelines, six main ports, and an extensive domestic air
service. Road transport carries by far the largest share of total domestie
traffic excluding crude oil. Over 25 billion ton-km per year or about 90%
of total freight traffic and about 13 billion passenger-km or 90% of total
passenger traffic are carried by road transport.  While road traffic has
increased at about 10% per year over the past decade, the growth of rail
traffic has been more modest.  Port traffic consists mainly of hydrocarbon
exports amounting to some 57 million tons in 1986 as well as major import
volumes of general cargo and bulk traffic (mainly cereals and cement)
estimated in 1986 at 10 million tons and 6 million tons, respectively.
Exports other than hydrocarbons, amounted to less than 2 million tons in
1986.
1.03     The 3,700 km railway network is operated by the Société Nationale
des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF), a public agency under control of the
Ministry of Transport.   The railway is handicapped by an old network with
poor design characteristics and the existence of two gauges, but it plays
an important role in bulk freight traffic.  Phosphate and iron ore traffic
in the eastern part of the country constitute almost one-third of total
freight ton-km, while passenger traffic is concentrated mainly around large
urban areas,  particularly Algiers.   In  1986,  rail  traffic  amounted  to
2.9 billion  ton-km of freight with an average haul of 235 km.   Of  the
12.4 million tons of originating traffic, 5.6 million tons consisted of
minerals, mainly iron ore, phosphates and coal. Passenger traffic in 1986
amounted to 2 billion passenger-km with an average haul of only 40 km.
However, suburban traffic accounts for about half of the total passenger-km
carried.  Rail traffic has increased steadily over the past 20 years at
about 3 percent for passengers and 6 per cent for freight.
1/  This chapter is drawn largely from a Transport Sector Strategy Paper
which was issued in Green Cover in October 1987 (Report No. 6727-AL).



-2-
B. Transport Organization
1.04     In broad  terms,  the  transport  sector  is  administered  by  the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for matters related to infrastructure, apart
from the railways, and by the Ministry of Transport (MOT) for matters
related to transport operations.  Transport tariff regulations require the
agreement of the Ministry of Comnerce (MOC) jointly with MOT, while fiscal
policy and the provision of recurrent budgets involve the Ministry of
Finance  (MOF).   Because  increased   responsibilities  have  been  given
recently to local governnent authorities through the Government's decen-
tralization policy (Wilaya, communes), the Ministry of Interior (MOI),
which supervises local authorities, i8 also involved in the administration
of the transport sector.   In addition to its responsibility in pricing
policy, MOC also plays a role in the distribution of various basic
commodities including related storage facilities and means of transport.
However, the present organization is likely to undergo substantial changes
which have been recently &nnounced by Government. Although there are some
uncertainties at this time, the main trend is to lessen control of
Covernment and grant more autonomy to the public enterprises which vould be
more accountable for their financial performance (paras. 1.06 and 3.16).
1.05     Some of the main issues in the transport sector stem from poor
c-ordination among the various agencies involved in planning of transport
facilities (para. 1.13). Regional planning considerations and the strategy
for industrial development have had major implications for the construction
of new railway and port infrastructure. In many instances, investments in
transport have gone ahead without a clear decision as to whether related
development in other sectors would proceed.   Clearly, a streamlining of
overall transport sector planning and a strengthening of the planning
capabilities of the modal agencies deserve high priority. The preparation
of a proposed National Transport Study and the creation of a transport
planning coordination unit under MOT would be a logical starting point to
improve the planning process(para. 1.15).
1.06     Both MPW and MOT are  responsible  for  overall  supervision  of
various  public  agencies  and enterprises  in  the  transport  sector.   MPW
currently supervises (a) 13 enterprises involved in road and airfield
construction,  (b)   three enterprises specialized  in civil works  in the
maritime and port sectors, (c) six enterprises specialized in structures,
(d) five public agencies (laboratories) d5voted to geotechnical studies and
one to maritime studies, and (e) four public firms responsible for
preparing  engineering  studies.   MOT is responsible for the public  road
carriers (five regional companies for passenger traffic created from former
SNTV, SNTR for freight) operating on intercity routes, SNTF for the
railways, the national airline Air Algérie, the aeronautical agency ENESA,
ten port enterprises, three shipping companies, (SNTM/CNAN, SNTM/HYPROC,
CALTRAM)  and  a  newly  created  shipyard  enterprise  (ERENAV).   All  the
agencies or firms are publicly owned, the private sector accounting for a
small share of the road transport and the road construction industries.
Here again, some chasges are expected in line with the granting of more
autonomy to public enterprises.



1.07     Both MPW and MOT are organized  into functional and subsectoral
departments.   In addition to the central organization  in Algiers,  both
Ministries act at the regional level through the decentralized Government
services in the wilayas.   Specific technical services dealing with basic
infrastructure  and  transport  are  located  within  the  same  regional
directorates (DIE) under the authority of the wali.
C. Transport Investments
Recent Investments
1.08     Until  the mid-1970s,  very little had been done  to improve the
transport system  in Algeria.   However, rapidly increasing traffic during
the 1970s, combined with the progressive aging of facilities, led to major
investments  in  tLk  sector  during  the  1975-79  and  1980-84  Development
Plans. Total invest-îents in the transport sector during 1980-84 amounted
to  DA 30 billion  (US$6.5 billion)  compared  with  a  planned  amount  of
DA 39 billion  (US$8.5 billion).   However,  during  implementation  of  the
1980-84 plan, there was a major shift in emphasis with road infrastructure
accounting for over 50% of the investments, almost twice the tevel
initially planned.  In contrast, investment in railways were only one-third
of the original planned level with much of the investment going into the
construction of new lines connected with industrial development schemes and
the Government's regional development effort.
1.09     Despite increased efforts, there has been a lag in meeting  the
needs for rehabilitation and modernization of the existing infrastructure.
Pavement rehabilitation accounted for about 40% of total highway investment
during 1980-85,  for improving about 6,000 km of roads.  This represents
annually only 3% of the total paved road network rather than 7 to 10% which
would correspond to a normal design life of 10 to 15 years for pavement
structures. A similar critical backlog has accumulated with track renewal
on the railways, only one fourth of the requirements having been met during
the last 30 years.  A stepped-up program of track renewal was  initiated
under the 1975-79 plan period with Bank assistance under the First Railway
Project.   However,  instead  of  pursuing  this  program,  the  Government
embarked on extensions of the railway network for which the economic
justification has not been demonstrated.  Similarly, in the port subsector,
the rehabilitation and modernization of existing port facilities have been
neglected while priority has been given mainly to secondary ports or to the
development of new sites.
Investments under 1985-89 Plan
1.10     Total  public  investment  originally  planned  for  the  transport
sector (Table 1.1) during the current plan period 1985-89, was expected to
reach DA 54 billion (US$11.7 billion) of which 76% would be allocated to
land transport, 15% to the maritime subsector, and 9% to civil aviation.
This overall distribution would have been fairly close to actual expendi-
tures during the previous plan period, although within land transport, the
railways were to absorb 55% of total investment as compared with only 31%
under the previous plan. This planned increase in railway investments was



-4-
related to a major extension of the rail network, a proposal which is
inconsistent with the relative role of the rail subsector.  In fact, actual
investments during the first two years of the plan period show railway
investments subs;tantially below the objectives, while expenditures on road
infrastructure lave far exceeded expectations.  Moreover, during 1986 there
was a need to adjust public investment levels as a result of the major fall
in oil revenues.
Table 1.1: Public Investnient under the Five Year Plan 1985-89-'
(DA million)
Original      Actual          Proposed Batik
Plan        1985-86         Core Progriam
1.  Road Subsector
1.1 Highways
National Roads             8,000          5,000            10,000
Wilaya Roads               2,000          1,500             3,300
Local Roads                7.300         2,500              4,000
17,300          9,000            17,300
1.2 Road Transport
SNTR                      2,360             710             1,600
SNTV                      2,900             540             2,020
5,260          1,250             3,620
22,560         10,250            20,920
2.  Rail Subsector
2.1  Infrastructure            15,150          4,330            11,360
2.2  Rolling Stock              3,100          1,210             2,075
18,250         5,540             13,435
3. Maritime Subsector
3.1  Ports                      5,960          1,650             4,540
3.2  Shipping                   2,260            110               920
8,220          1,760             5,460
4.  Air Subsector
4.1  Airports                   2,100            830             1,880
4.2  Air Carrier                2,870            450             2,310
4,970          1,280             4,190
Grand Total                    54,000         18,830            44,665
1/  Urban transport and the Algiers metro have been excluded.



- 5 -
1.11     In order to assist  the Government,  a Bank plan review mission
identified a core investment program for the transport sector.   For the
sector  as  a whole,  investment  is expected  to be reduced by about 202
together with a reallocation of fundt between various transport subsectors.
A five-year core program has been identified for the transport sector as a
whole, çihich would amount to about DA 44 billion (US$9.5 billion).  Road
infrastructure would account for just over 40% of the total and railways
about 252. The major emphasis of this core program would be on rehabilita-
tion of existing infrastructure, particularly for the railways, and on a
modernization program for the existing ports.  The main cuts in the program
would be in new rail infrastructure, including the Algiers metro, in the
construction of local roads anAd in  renewal  of  trucking  capacity.   The
construction of new railway lines would be limited to ongoing projects, but
these projects would be implemented at a slower rate than originally
planned  (para. 2.22).   Similarly,  the construction schedule for the new
Djen Djen port in the eastern part of the country, whicr. began in 1985, is
likely to be revised in line with lower port traffic prospects over the
next five years.
D. Sector Issues
1.12     There are a number of issues which the government must address in
the transport sector. These issues can be grouped in four main areas:
(a)  institutional coordination and overall planning;
(b) sector management and operational efficiency;
(c) transport investment planning; and
(d) pricing and fiscal policy.
1.13     Greater coordination among the various agencies dealing with the
sector is needed. For roads, coordination is required between the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW) and the regional authorities (Wilayas) under the
Ministry of Interior (MOI), to ensure more balanced investment allocation
between various  classes  of roads.   For ports,  coordination  is required
between MPW and the Ministry of Transport (MOT) to promote modernization
and  rehabilitation rather than new construction.   In addition,  regional
planning considerations and the strategy for industrial development have
major implications for the construction of new railway lines and port
facilities. This problem has been one of the most serious affecting the
transport sector in recent years and has diverted attention away from the
critical need to rehabilitate the existing transport infrastructure.
Attention to the coordination issue is already being addressed by the Fifth
Kighway Project which is improving coordination in road rehabilitation and
maintenance planning.
1.14     Improved  management  is  needed  to  increase  the  operational
efficiency and financial viability of major transport enterprises in all
modes.  In the road subsector the issues are: the utilization of the large
own-account truck fleet, the high accident rate, truck overloading, and the



- 6 -
need to improve the information system particularly with regard to vehicle
registration.   In the rail subsector the issues are:  the long turnaround
time of wagons (12 days for an average distance of 235 km), the lack of
demand for long-distance passenger traffic, and the shortage of capacity to
carry out more substantial rail renewal programs. For ports, the develop-
ment of container traffic should speed up throughputs and reduce transport
costs provided technical and institutional constraints can be eliminated.
1.15     With increased resource constraints there is a need to apply sound
economic criteria in the selection of transport investments. As mentioned
above, the focus should be on modernization and rehabilitation rather than
new construction.   This is particularly true for the railways where the
existing east-west trunk line should play a more important role in the
distribution of local production gradually substituting for imports.  The
Government is now embarking on a National Transport Study, with financial
assistance under the Fifth Highway Project, which should help defiLne the
future role of the various modes and establish investment priorities in the
sector.   The  study  would  also  be  an  opportunity  to  strengthen  the
capability of the Ministry of Transport to undertake such planning tasks
and would provide training for its staff. The study would be managed by a
proposed transport planning coordination unit under MOT whose role would be
to upgrade overall transport sector planning.
1.16     Fiscal  revenues  from  road  users  exceed  actual expenditures  on
construction and maintenance but heavy vehicles do not cover their share of
infrastructure costs.  For ports and railways, less than full recovery of
operating  and  infrastructure  costs  is  achieved.   The  most  critical
situation is that of the railways where deficits have been mounting even
without any attempt  to recover  infrastructure  costs.   If allowance were
made for infrastructure depreciation, the 1985 operating deficit would be
DA 1 billion  (US$210 million).   A major financial  restructuring  combined
with a clearly established relationship between Government and the railway
in relation to level of service, pricing, compensations, responsibilities
for investment and depreciation is provided for under the proposed project.
1.17     The recent decline in hydrocarbon revenues has brought a sense of
urgency in dealing with many of the problems in the transport sector.  The
issues mentioned above have been discussed with the Government as part of
an ongoing program of economic and sector work which includes an
economy-wide review of the 1985-89 Development Plan and a Green Cover
Transport Sector  Strategy  Paper  issued  in October  1987.   The  proposed
project would be part of this overall effort to improve the institutional
framework and would suppcrt the urgent rehabilitation of the key sections
of the railway network and help the railway achieve financial viability.
E. Previous Bank Projects
1.18     In the transport sector, Algeria has received eight loans from the
Bank, for a total amount of US$615 million, to finance five projects for
roads, two for ports and one for railways. Annex 9 provides a summary of
the content and implementation experiences of these projects.  The First,
Second and Third Highway Projects (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL and 1683-AL) have



been  completed  and  fully  disbursed.   The  implementation  of  the Fourth
Sighway Project (Loan 1892-AL), approved in 1980, is about two years behind
achedule because of delays in bidding and evaluating alternative bids for
construction of a major component.  The Fifth Righway Project (Loan 2808),
which was recently made effective, will provide support for a two-year
program  of  road  rehabilitation  and  contracted  maintenance,  technical
assistance and training in road rehabilitation and maintenance planning,
and in transport operations and studies in the transport sector including
preparation work and design studies  for railway and port projects.  The
highway projects were all characterized by delays due in a large part to
lengthy civil works contracting and approval procedures and late start up
of studies.  The Project Completion Reports (and the Project Performance
Audit-Report No. 2552, on Loan 912-AL) all concluded, however, that project
objectives in each case were met, although several times project components
had to be revised to keep pace with administrative and organizational
changes taking place in Algeria.
1.19     The First Railway Project  (Loan 996-AL), which was designed  to
support the railway's modernization program within the 1974-77 Development
Plan, was mainly completed on schedule.   However,  the closing date was
extended to permit completion of several important studies.  The Project
Completion Report indicated that, although the project largely met its
objectives, the disagreement between the Bank and the Government on track
doubling between Constantine and Randame Jamel led to a deterioration in
the  dialogue  between  the  railway  and  the  Bank.   In addition,  a cost
accounting study included under the project was never completed and a cost
accounting system has yet to be implemented in the railway.
1.20     The Bank participated in financing a major port at Bethioua (Loan
995-AL), designed for the export of liquefied natural gas.  The implementa-
tion of an envisaged Second Port Project at Jijel (Loan 1427-AL) evaluated
in 1976 did not materialize because of the postponement of an associated
new steel complex. The loan vas then cancelled in 1980.
II. THE RAILWAY
A. General
2.01     The  difficult topography of the Algerian coast,  the relatively
large number of ports and the very similar patterns of agricultural
production between the eastern, central and western subregions have limited
the volume of east-west transport flows, both for freight and passenger
traffie.  Commodity flows are related mainly to imports and exports which
move within vell defined port hinterlands. However, some changes in these
patterns are nov taking place with the development of local industrial
capacity, particularly in import substitution. Many bulk commodities such
as steel products and fertilizers originate mainly from the eastern part of
the country and therefore increasing east-west flows of basic industrial
commodities are to be expected in the future.  The railway is expected to
play an increasingly important role in these commodity flows.



- 8 -
B. Traffic
2.02     Total passenger traffic in 1986 was about 51 million passengers
and two billion passenger-km representing about 13% of the total traffic
carried by common carriers (Table 1).  However, half of the two billion
passenger-kms are related to suburban commuters, in the vicinity of
Algiers,  Oran,  Constantine  and Annaba.   This suburban traffic has been
groving at an annual rate of about 13% during 1980-85.  By comparison, the
trends for main line traffic have been rather erratic. Although the total
nuober of passengers carried in 1986 increased by 7%, there was a recent
change in the statistical definition of suburban and long distance traffic
and hence the current  trends  are  not clear.   However,  except  for  the
Constantine - Annaba line, passenger traffic on the main routes has shown
modest increases of about 3% per year during the period 1980-86.  On the
other hand, the average haul for long-distance passenger traffic is not
more than 70 to 80 km which raises a question concerning the role of rail
transport  in the  interurban  passenger  transport  market.   For  the main
routes overall passenger traffic is expected to continue to grow at a
modest rate of about 2.5% per year in the medium term, particularly
following renewal of many of the critical sections of the network.
2.03     Originating  freight  traffic  lifted  in  1986  was  12.4  million
tonnes, generating a total of 2.9 billion ton-km, equivalent to an average
haul distance of 235 km.  Nearly 90% of the tonnage and of the  ton-km was
accounted for by eight commodities: iron ore, phosphates, coal and coke,
steel products, refined oil, cereals, fertilizers, and cement (Tables 2
and 3).  Mineral traffic - iron ore, coal and phosphates - which moves over
less than 10% of the network,  added up to 5.6 million tons  (45%)  and
900 million  ton-km  (30%).   In  the  1980-86  period,  mineral  traffic has
remained more or less at the same level of around 5 to 6 million tons and
0.8 to 1.0 billion ton-km.  However, non-mineral traffic has increased at
over 5% per year during the same period.
2.04     Mineral traffic is not likely to grow in the next three to four
years but could increase in the longer term with the development of local
industry.  Although iron ore exports have recently ceased, all domestic
resources are now being processed at the El Hadjar steel works near
Annaba. For locally produced steel products there is expected to be some
growth resulting from traffic generated by import substitution activities.
Overall, non-mineral freight traffic lifted by the railway, particularly
oil products, cereals and fertilizers, is expected to grow at a modest 2.5%
per year until the early 1990s. By then, with a possible recovery in oil
prices and the completion of much of the track rehabilitation and renewal
program, freight traffic growth could increase to about 5% in the longer
term.
C. Railway Property
The Network
2.05     The total network route kilometrage is about 3,700 km-- 2,584 km
of standard gauge and 1,116 km narrow gauge (1.05m).  About 290 km (11%) of



-9-
the standard gauge network in the vicinity of Algiers, Oran, Constantine
and Ech Chleff are doubled, principally for suburban traffic.  The 1,700 km
main standard gauge route (Grande Rocade) runs east to west between the
Tunisian and Moroccan borders, parallel to the coast, through Annaba,
Constantine, Algiers, Oran »nd Tlemcen.  Spurs off the main line connect
the norts of Oran, Arzew, Mostaganem, Bejaia and Skikda and the inland
towns of Guelma, Tizi Ouzou and Ain Temouchent. The 398 km eastern mineral
line, which carries over one-third of SNTF's heavy bulk traffic, runs due
south from the eastern port and industrial area of Annaba and the adjacent
steel plant of El Hadjar, to Tebessa and the iron ore mines of Ouenza and
El Kouif and the phosphate mines of Djebel Onk.   About  290 km of  the
mineral line are electrified (3,000 Volts DC). Four branch lines penetrate
the southern regions of the country: the 410 km standard gauge line from
El Gourzi to Touggourt, the railhead for the oil and gas fields of Rassi
Messaoud and three narrow gauge branches: Blida-Djelfa; Relizane-
Tiaret, Mohammedia-Bechar.
2.06     The terrain traversed by the east-west main line and the northern
reaches of the branch lines is mountainous: the alignmenat has sharp curves
and steep grades.  Minimum curvatures and ruling grades are 200 m and 15
per thousand on the standard gauge and 100 m and 25 per thousand on the
narrow gauge.  On the eastern mineral line, however,  loaded traffic runs
down these grades except at a hump near Souk Ahras.   Of the 293 km of
double tracked main line, two sections, totalling 131 km, have recently
been completed or are nearing completion:  El Harrach-Thenia  (35 km) and
Ramdane Jamel-El Gourzi (96 km), the former for Algiers suburban traffic
and the latter for augmenting main line capacity mainly to serve a new port
being  built  at  Djer. Djen.   Two  extensions  of  the network  are  under
construction. A 137 km new line connecting Ramdane Jamel to the port of
Djen Djen, and a 150 km line f rom Ain Touta to M'Sila on the Haut Plateau,
the site of a new agricultural and industrial resettlement area.  In view
of the current shortage of funds, the scope of these two projects has been
revised. The double tracking of a 50 km section of the line f rom Djen Djen
to El Milia has now been abandoned and only 15 km of the Haut Plateau line
will be completed up to the Ain Touta cement plant (para. 2.22).
Traction and Rolling Stock
2.07     The traction  and  rolling  stock  fleet  comprises  164 main  line
standard gauge locomotives (25 electric, and 139 diesel), five dual-gauge
and 31 narrow-gauge main line locomotives, 24 diesel-hydraulic shunters and
30 autorails (2 car units), 628 coaches (41 narrow gauge), 13,005 wagons of
which 3,519 are dual gauge. Axle loads are 20 tons on the standard gauge
(22.5 tons on the mineral line) and 12 tons on the narrow gauge.  Details
of traction and rolling stock are in Tables 4 and 5.
2.08     The main line locomotive fleet, relatively young in age (94% of
the stock is around 15 years old), is practically standardized on the GM
series, a feature that has simplified immensely the maintenance and spare
parts procurement and holding (para. 2.18).  In contrast, the East German
electric locomotives on heavy mineral duties on the eastern electrified
lines, originally built in the early 1970s, have not rendered effective



- 10 -
service since their inception because of poorly designed auxiliaries which
are incapable of being rectified. Owing to frequent breakdown attributable
to gross overcrowding, the two coach diesel rail car units, originally
acquired ror Algiers' suburban services, have been redeployed to branch
line and short range local passenger services, where their performance has
improved.  Following the recently carried out overhaul of the power units
and refitting of the transmission on these rail cars further improvements
are expected.
2.09     With the acquisition of 400 coaches (not yet fully delivered) and
the retirement of 47 second-hand units, bought a few years ago, the share
of overage coach stock is below 15%. Similarly, about 15% (1500 in number)
of the wagons are overaged, particularly the general purpose covered and
open stock, the majority of which are obsolete two-axle units.  Dual-gauge
stock is, in fact, all new, having been completely replaced in the last
three years.  On completion of current deliveries of 1,200 wagons against
orders placed during 1982-85, the requirement for new wagons in the next
three years will fall off sharply.   It may revive thereafter but not  to
past levels of annual demand. All wagons are manufactured in the country
in a state enterprise factory (SONAM) near Annaba, which has an annual
capacity of 800 wagons of all types. The factory will consequently have to
endeavor to diversify further its production in other areas of fabrication
such as overhead and portal cranes, heavy steel structures (columns,
trusses, bridge girders, silo frames) and other "jobbing" work.
Signalling and Telecommunicaticns
2.10     Except for the recently doubled section between Ramdane Jamel and
El Gourzi (96 km) and the ongoing doubling between El Harrach and Thenia
(35 km), where color-light signalling and automatic block have been
provided, the signalling on the main routes of the Grande Rocade and the
electrified portion of the Annaba-Tebessa mineral line is electro-
mechanical, the mechanical semaphore having been partly replaced by color
light indications. The telecommunications for train operations, owned and
maintained by the railway, are by open wire land lines (telephone/telegraph
circuits) along the track. Cables have been foreseen wherever the line is
doubled and in the remodelled Annaba Port/Steel Plant complex zone.  There
are three different types of block working (Table 6) graded according to
the density of trains on the respective sections of the network. Generally,
however, for all its other telecommunication needs, local and long
distance, the railway is dependent on the Post and Telegraph services like
any other subscriber.
Track
2.11     There are several different rail profiles of section varying from
46-54 kg/m on the standard gauge (mainly 46 kg/m) and 25-40 kg/m on the
narrow gauge.   Sleepers are a mix of steel,  concrete and  timber.   The
formation  in  many  stretches  needs  repairs.   Ballast  is deficient  and
availability, within easy reach of the alignment, is generally of limestone
of an "acceptable" hardness, although below the requirement of good
mechanized maintenance practices.  Less than 1,000 km of track have been
renewed in the last 30 years and a serious backlog has accumulated. This



- il -
vill have to be eliminated progressively in order not to interfere unduly
with train movements, particularly on the intensely used portions of the
mainline.
2.12     The railway owns five mechanized ballast quarries and six concrete
sleeper plants. The combined production of these units is about 27 percent
and 23 percent short of the total annual routine maintenance and program
reneval demanda of ballast (under one million cubic meters) and sleepers
(under half million numbers) respectively. This shortage is expected to be
recouped by take-over of more contractor-delivered plants.   The  service
stock of nearly 1,000 wagons (ballast hoppers, rail flat cars, opens and
covered) is old but adequate for civil vorks transport needs for the next
five years.
Tunnels and Bridges
2.13     Tunnels  and  bridges  are,   in  general,  in  reasonably  good
condition. Five tunnels need rehabilitation. Two of these, located on the
Algiers-Constantine main route, are important: the daylighting of the 75 m
long tunnel at km 113 and the 2,258 m long El Achir Tunnel built in 1884.
Repairs to this latter tunnel are being carried out by a local contractor
and a proposal in also under study for its eventual replacement on a new
alignment.  Rehabilitation of some bridges on the mineral lines and the
Algiers-Thenia-Constantine,  Algiers-Tizi  Ouzou,  Algiers-Oran  routes  for
which studies have been completed will be undertaken in the near future.
Severe speed restrictions have been imposed on 32 bridges and culverts on
the narrow gauge network which are below strength for the current axle load
of 12 tons. A resume of the tunnel and bridge rehabilitation needs is in
Annex 2.
Stations, Loops, Yards and Sidings
2.14     The railway has 400 stations.  On an aggregate of nearly 1,000 km
of low train density sections of the standard gauge-L  and  on all  the
three narrow gauge branch lines, excepting a few key stations, most of the
crossing stations are unmanned and train passing is arranged between the
locomotive crew, equipped with portable hook-on telephones and the train
controller. Crossing loops over the standard gauge system are generally
suitable for train lengths up to about 900 tons (shortest length
250 meters).  On the mineral line,  the loops are of 500 m clear length
permitting up to 94 wagons (short length stock) for mineral trains of
2,000-2,100 gross tons trailing.
2.15     The system is distinguished by an absence of marshalling yards,
excepting for a low-hump one near Algiers (Caroubier) and the exchange
yards at Annaba for the iron ore and phosphate traffic, which have been
rationalized and expanded in the remodelling scheme, completed in 1986.
Traffic is generally carried in siding-to-siding block trains and there are
161 user sidings and holding lines at the 79 stations serving them.
1/ These sections are mostly in the Western sector of the railway, plus
the Touggourt and Tebessa-Djebel Onk branches in the East.



- 12 -
D. Maintenance of Plant and Equipment
Track and Track Equipment
2.16     Maintenance is manual, organized in gangs of 20 men, each with a
beat of 28 ku on the average.  The manpower is 1.0 man/km.  Mobility is by
truck. Increasing difficulty is being experienced in recruiting track gang
labor as the working conditions are deemed tougher than most other
occupations.  Normal maintenance is hampered by fast aging track and the
paucity  of  ballast.   Maintenance ballast  replenishment will have to be
augmented considerably to achieve rapid extension of mechanized mainte-
nance, which is more efficient and, in fact, inescapable because of the
irreplaceable diminishing manual gang labor.  Station and yard lines are
reasonably well maintained despite the lack of ballast, worn-out materials
and restricted availability of maintenance time.   Points and  crossings,
however, need greater attention on shunting and side tracks. Workshops for
maintenance of track machines, vehicles and trollies and power tools are
planned to be established at three centres in the course of the next two to
three years.   An  increased  capacity  for  routine  track  maintenance  by
mechanization and the requisite personnel training would be supported by
the proposed project (para. 3.09).
Signalling and Telecommunications
2.17     Incidence  of  electro-mechanical  signal  failures  is  not  high.
Rectification is, however, dilatory because of delays in communication of
defects and low mobility of repair staff. Open wire communication circuit
failures tend to be high at times: this is due to insufficient attempts to
improve what is deemed to be an obsolescent system eventually due for
replacement.  This is an erroneous attitude as circuit reliability can be
considerably enhanced with least-cost minor improvements in fixtures and
maintenance practices. Here again, low mobility hampers rapid restoration.
Traction and Rolling Stock
2.18     There are six depots and two workshops for locomotive maintenance,
two workshops for wagons and one for carriage upkeep (Table 7). Main line
diesel locomotives are well maintained and maintenance schedules in depots
are fairly closely observed.  Shunting locomotive availability  is lower,
firstly because of their dispersed deployment on the system and secondly
because their release from traffic duties  for maintenance  is not  very
strictly observed and conversely the pressure for their return is greater.
Electric locomotive maintenance has been a problem because of the poorly
designed auxiliaries.  Unit exchange methods are current in all workshops
for bogies and other major sub-assemblies (traction motors, generators,
engines). The workshop capacities, inclusive of accident repairs, are just
about enough for the present fleet.  Addition of shunters to the fleet may
not present serious capacity problems, but capacity would need to be
augmented within the next five years for main line locomotive additions.
2.19     Wagon maintenance is adequate but has, so far, not been up to the
sane standard as locomotives primarily because of shortage of capacity in



- 13 -
the  lineside  depots  and workshops  (see Table 7).  Hovever, a five-year
program of improving the lineside facilities and extending the workshops
was initiated two years ago and on its completion in the next three years,
wagon availability is expected to improve perceptibly to 97 percent.   To
unify deployment, control of all privately owned wagons has been taken over
by SNTF. Coach upkeep is satisfactory and with a younger fleet is expected
to be better in the future.
E. Investment Program
2.20     In common with  the  rest  of  the  economy,  the SNTF prepares a
five-year outline investment plan, followed by annual plans for each plan
period.   Within  the  framework  of  the  five-year  plan,  commitments  on
specific projects and investment outlays are not entered into until
successive annual plans are firmed up and approved by the Government.
2.21     Given current resource constraints, railway investments during the
1985-89 period are expected to average about DA 2.6 billion (US$550
million) annually, equivalent to about DA 13 billion (US$2.8 million) over
the five-year period.  This level of investment corresponds  to the core
program recommended by the Bank Plan Review Mission and would represent a
reduction of about 282 over the initial plan target for the railway
subsector of DA 18 billion (US$3.9 million). Details of the railway
investment program are given in Annex 2 while Table 2.1 summarizes the core
program for the 1985-89 plan:
Table 2.1: Railway Investments 1985-89 Core Program
(DA million)
Actual      Planned      Total        _
1985-86      1987-89    1985-89
New lines                              1,820         2,400      4,220        31
Modernization                          1,389         1,522      2,911        21
Track Rehabilitation/Renewal             336         2,264      2,600        19
Track Maintenance Equipment              200           100        300         2
Track Material                            49            18         67         1
Signalling/Telecommunications             -            200        200         1
Workshops                                199           300        499         4
Rolling Stock                          1,206           774      1,800        15
Locomotives                               -            276        276         2
Other (tools, studies)                   340           225        565         4
Total                                  5,539        8,079      13,438       100
2.22     In the core program, expenditures on new lines will be limited to
certain ongoing projects, including early completion of the Beni Saf-Ain
Temouchent line (25 km). However, the major ongoing project is the Ramdane
Jamel - Jijel line (137 km), connecting the rail network to the port of
Djen Djen, which is currently under construction, and to a planned steel
works at El Milia.  The scope of this project has now been reduced to
exclude proposed double tracking between Djen Djen and El Milia (50 km)



- 14 -
while  implementation of  the  project  as  a whole will be delayed.   The
revised program also reflects a recent decision to defer completion of the
Ain Touta - M'Sila line (150 km) on the Hauts Plateaux; only the first
15 km section leading to the Ain Touta cement plant is nov scheduled for
completion during the current plan. The resources from these two projects
are nov being transferred to the track renewal program.  Substantial cuts
are also being made in the acquisition of traction and rolling stock. As
such, during the remainder of the plan (1987-89), the highest priority iJ
being given to track rehabilitation and reneval and ongoing modernization
progrmsm. As a whole, these programs will account for about one-half of
the remaining investments under the plan.  During project implementation,
the Government will provide the Bank with details of the annual railway
investment budgets, beginning in 1988 (para. 3.23).
F. Organization and Management
2.23     Established  as  a  state  enterprise,  SNTF  functions  under  the
supervision of the Ministry of Transport.  Governuaent bears the capital and
maintenance expenditure on the track and its related infrastructure
formation,  culverts,  bridges,  tunnels  and  road  crossings.   Equity  is
contributed by  the State.   The  system of  control and  organization  is
identical to that of most other state enterprises in the Government-run
economy of Algeria.  The workers' unions are influential and participate
actively in decision formulation and regulations affecting wages and
salaries, working and housing conditions, job classifications, promotion
and reward systems. In freight transport, the major users of the railways
are almost exclusively other parastatals,1' Central Government organiza-
tions  or  local  provincial  and  district  agencies.   Bulk  traffic  is
preferentially allocated to rail.   However,  enterprises are increasingly
allowed greater freedom and flexibility in modal allocation of inward or
outward transport demands.
Organization
2.24     The Chief  Executive  of  SNTF  is  the Director  General  who  is
appointed by Government.  The line organization is territorially divided
into four Regional operatienal Divisions - Algiers, Constantine, Souk Ahras
and Oran - and six locomotive/rolling stock maintenance workshop units. At
the Algiers headquarters of the SNTF, there are eleven departments, each
headed by a Director, reporting directly to the Director General. The four
Regional Divisions (see Chart 1) and the six Maintenance Workshops Units
are directly under the Director General, although the latter units are
administered, in practice, by the Directorate of Traction and Rolling
Stock.  In addition to the eleven Directorates, three service departments
are attached to the Director General - the Computer Wing, the Social and
Cultural  Services and the Inspector General.  The latter is basically a
Safety Inspector performing a technical audit function to ensure
1/ Such as FERPROS (Iron ore/phosphate mining), SIDER-HADJAR (Steel Mill)
METANOF (Zinc, Sulfuric acid), NAFTAL (Petroleum Products), ENA Sucre,
ENA Sel, ONAB (Cattle Fodder), ONAPASA (Fertilizer shipments to local
agencies for distribution).



- 15 -
application and observance of safety regulations and standards in opera-
tions and maintenance of Rolling Stock and Infrastructure.  In addition to
the six mechanical workshop units, there vere, until early 1986, three
field track works units, one each located at Sidi Mabrouk, Oran and Khemis,
again in principle reporting directly to the Director General. The track
units have since been detached from the SNTF and become a part of a new
parasta.al INFRAFER (Entreprise Nationale de Réalisation d'Infrastructures
Ferroviaires), specifically organized to execute track reneval works as an
implementing agency for the railways (para. 5.08). A similar proposal is
being actively explored towards abolishing the existing Directorate of
Projects and substituting it, possibly in 1988, by another independent
parastatal for carrying out, on contract, infrastructure feasibility,
design and specification studies, project engineering and management
(para. 5.10).   Assistance  would be provided  in  these  areas  under  the
proposed project (para. 3.12).
2.25     The Deputy Director General (Chart 1) assists the Director General
on task-to-task assigrments with no defined organizational responsibility
or authority. The organizational pattern adopted is more or less common to
all parastatals and reflects the Government's precepts of decentralization
of authority and decision-making overseen by a central paramount entity.
On  the  whole,  SNTF's  organization  functions  satisfactorily.    Inter-
directorate  and  inter-regional  coordination  could,  however,  be  more
efficiently managed, if the very wide span of control of the Director
General is reduced. A new Director General vas nominated early in 1988 and
he is now increasingly delegating responsibility for day-to-day operations
to  the various  directorates.   In addition,  the proposed project would
support a first phase in the implementation of a management information
system which should help to improve railway operations.
Management
2.26     Procurement and stocking of all capital stores is managed by the
User Directorates, of which Traction and Rolling Stock and Infrastructure
are  the most  important.   Thu Stores  Directorate's responsibilities are
confined to the procurement and management of only the spares and other
maintenance  needs of  traction, rolling stock and their workshops:   the
system is computerized and functions efficiently. Responding to budgetary
constraints, maintenance inventories have been reduced f rom 33 to 19-1/2
months holding and are to be brought down to 18 months, the minimum safe
level (see Table 8 for annual purchase value changes). Schemes are under
study for Stores Directorate to take over all stores management on the
railway.
2.27     The  computer  services,  centralized  at  the  SNTF  Headquartets,
cover: payrolls and personnel statistics on retirements, medical benefits,
stores accounting/recoupment/procurement and inventory control, traffic and
general accounting and operational statistics. There is a long-term scheme
(estimated cost DA12 million or US$ 2.5 million) for expanding activities
(with supplementary mini/micro computers) into real time applications in
wagon  control,   transport  plan  follow-up  systems,   traffic  costing,
commercial freight accounting,  cash flow and credit data processing and
analysis,   workshop   costing,   and   passenger   ticketing,   particularly



- 16 -
suburban.  Meanwhile, two pilot projects are to be set up in the next two
years, one at the regional Headquarters, Algiers, for passenger ticketing
and statistics and operation information systems and the other at the
diesel workshops of HAmna (Algiers) for workshop costing, locomotive
maintenance   scheduling   and   provisioning   and   production   planning.
Assistance for this program will be provided under the proposed project as
part of the training program (para. 3.12).
2.28     In general, the Directorates of Traction and Rolling Stock and of
Stores Procurement and Supplies are efficient and effectlve in their
functioning.   With the shedding of track renewal works to INFRAFER, the
Civil Engineering Directorate is now better placed to handle ordirary track
and  civil  works  maintenance:   some  cadre  strengthening  and  in-house
expertise will, however, be required to build up an organization effective
enough to cope with the technology of modern mechanized track maintenance
and the upkeep of track machines and equipment. The proposed project would
provide both equipment and training to strengthen routine track maintenance
(para. 3.09).  In addition, the Planning Directorate's shortcomings in the
areas of investment analysis, coordination of the planning effort and
performance monitoring should be remedied by a closer integration of its
functions and responsibilities in the management system at the corporate
level.  Improvements in investment planning and project preparation would
also be addressed under the proposed project (para. 3.12).
2.29     Finally, budgetary control, traffic costing and cost analysis in
general, are practiced at present in a very crude and diffused way, devoid
of any critical analysis and test.   This situation is partly, but not
entirely, due to the absence of a cost accounting system, for which support
would be provided under the project (paras. 3.12 and 5.06).
G. Human Resources Planning, Development and Utilization
2.30     With a staff strength of about 18,000, the productivity level is
257,000  traffic  units  per  employee.   Identified  weaknesses  in  human
resource  inputs  are  mainly:   over-bureaucratized  personnel  management
lacking dynamism; deficiencies in the training system along with mediocre
training  management;   and  too  many  professionals  and  middle  level
technicians  nearing  retirement.   The  present  staff  distribution  and
training system are summarized in Annex 3.
2.31     Training is only up to the foreman levels and spans just the three
operational departments - Operations, Infrastructure and Traction and
Rolling Stock maintenance.   SNTF's 14 institutionalized centers turn over
annually 2,800 staff - half on first recruitment and the rest on refresher
grade   promotion   short-time   courses.    Personnel   of   non-operational
departments train on-the-job without systematic refresher exposure, a
deficiency which is to be addressed in the proposed project.  The formal
training capacity is adequate for the next five years: some teaching aids
and equipment need supplemen'ing or replacing for which provision has also
been made in the project.  The most critical deficiency,  however,  is in
professional cadre training. Technical assistance and equipment are being
provided in the Bank's Fifth Highway Project to support a Railway Technical



- 17 -
Institute at Rouiba, where the buildings and hostels are available.  This
effort will be supplemented under the proposed project, which will allow
further training fellowships in planning, economic and investment analysis,
management, and finance and accounting (para. 3.11).
H. ODerations
2.32     The  SNTF operates  daily,  on  the average,  204 passenger trainm
(166 suburban and 38 mainline/local) and 95 freight trains (65 unit block
trains and  30 ordinary marshalled  block  trains).   The  total  of nearly
300 trains per day is anticipated to clear in 1987 about 5.4 billion units
of traffic, comprising 2.15 billion passenger-km (half generated by
suburban traffic) equivalent in number to 51 million passengers, and
3.25 billion net ton-km of freight (or 13.2 million tons originating
equivalent), one-third of which will be minerals (Table 9).
2.33     Practically, all freight is planned annually and moves  in block
trainas of two kinds (Annex 4):  the point-te-point unit block trains of
dedicated wagons (oil tanks, mineral hoppers, fertilizers, bulk cement) and
ordinary block trains, composed of all general goods wagons and a mix of
general  and  dedicated  stock.   The  latter  formations   increase  wagon
turnround  as does,  more  significantly,  the  loading/unloading delays at
terminals  in both  cases.   The  overall  average  13-day  wagon  turnround
(Table 10) is too high for a 235 km average haul and is to be reduced to
9 days in the project period (Annex 1, Table 3).  Mineral  traffic wagon
turnround, where loading/discharge is mechanized, is efficient at 1.6 and
3.5 days (iron ore/phosphate). SNTF still carries some LCL traffic, which
besides raising wagon turnround, ties up other resources disproportionately
(Table 11).  Already diminishing, this traffic needs to be shed quickly.
Efforts to improve wagon turnaround will also include provision of
additional sidings, greater use of shunting locomotives, and a sharpening
of financial incentives to reduce wagon retention by users.  In passenger
operations, suburban occupation ratios of 80% are reasonable, but the local
and mainline occupation ratios of 60Z are low.
2.34     Some  principal  operating  performance  indices  are  in Table 12.
Utilization of main line diesel locomotives is generally satisfactory. The
kilometrage between on-the-road failures of 25-33,000 km is, however, low
and a doubling of this figure could be equivalent to the addition of
another two to three locomotives to fleet availability.  SNTF has made a
detailed analysis of the problem and is initiating multiple measures,
including better trouble-shooting training of drivers, for reversing the
adverse  trend  of  the  last  two years.   For  reasons  already mentioned,
electric locomotive performance will remain poor until the 24 units of East
German origin are replaced or substituted by diesels.   A technical and
economic  study  of  the advantages of continuing with electric  traction,
together with the modernization of the eastern mineral line will be
undertaken by SNTF in 1988.  This will involve assessing the economics of
extensions of the electrified line at the Annaba end and eventual
replacement of the electric locomotives, compared to switching over to
complete diesel traction, gradually phasing out the electric locomotives
and building up diesel maintenance capacity at Souk Ahras.



- 18 -
2.35     The 1987 line capacity availability, utilization and train vorking
methode are  shown  'Ln Table  6.   The  two sections  likely to experience
capacity constrain.s are the Ramdane  Jamel-Skikda and Annaba-Bouchegouf
sections, where utilization is above 80 percent.  Planned upgrading of the
block system and communication improvement on the Constantine - Annaba
route and parts of the Annaba-Tebessa line vill be an appropriate insurance
against incipient congestion conditions developing in the next fev years.
The project provides ror these improvements.   In short, the railway has
sufficient resources of line capacity to cope with the projected growth of
freight  traffic.   As for rolling stock and treaction, turnround improve-
ments, coupled vith the additional shunting locomotives, will generate
enough wagon capacity, whi±e the addition of some mainline locomotives vill
3lidinate the current and anticipated marginal shortages of motive pover.
2.36     The incidence of derailments (and collisions) is high, namely 50
per million train kilometers in 1984 and 60 in 1985.  Two-thirds of the
accidents are in station yards and sidings. SNTF needs to intensify staff
training and responsibility-fixing for breach of safety procedures to cut
the number of derailments by at least half in the next few years.
I. Uneconomic Lines
2.37     The principal network of the SNTF,  the 2,584 km standard gauge
system, has on average a combined passenger and freight traffic density of
3 million gross tons per kilometer of route (1986 level).  On the 2,228 km
of main lines, the traffic density varies from 8.44 to 0.99. The highest
density is on the mineral line (Annaba - 0. Keberit) and the lowest on the
Biskra-Touggourt half of the 418 km El Gourzi - Touggourt brau_h, serving
the southern oil field (Table 13).  The Grande Rocade density levels are
4.84 on the Algiers - Constantine route and 3.91 on the Algiers - Oran
Line.   The  remaining  316  km of  the  standard  gauge make  up  what  are
essentially ancillary lines of the main sys.em, which although having a low
density of 0.39, are important as feeder or bridging links.
2.38     The  three  narrow  gauge  branch  lines   totalling   1,116   km
- Blida-Djelfa  (279  km),  Relizane-Tiaret  (166  km),  Mohammadia-Bechar
(671 km) - have an average density of G.6 million gross tons per route
kilometer  (0.54  freight  0.06  passenger).   Most  freight  tonnage  moves
inwards from the standard gauge: little or none originates on these lines
either terminating on them or transiting to standard gauge destinations.
The invard narrow gauge freight moves in dual-gauge wagons, bogies being
changed at the junction stations; because of the lighter narrow-gauge axle
loads (12 tons versus 20 tons) these wagons are loaded below maximum
capacity, resulting in underutilization of available payloads over the
standard gauge portion of the transit. In 1982 the narrow gauge lines were
closed to passenger traffic owing to deteriorated track and poor bridge
conditions: this traffic was revived in 1986 after the minimum necessary
repairs were done.   Long-term restoration of these lines to appropriate
standard, for free circulation of traffic would require substantial
investments  in  track  repairs  and  renewals  and  bridge  repairs  and
strengthening.   The  SNTF has,  in  the  past,  also  contemplated  raising
axle-load standards to 18 tons, if not 20, to equalize system wagon



- 19 -
payloads.  Neither the prevailing traffic levels nor the growth prospects
warrant large scale investments. Conversion to standard gauge is even less
viable, particularly, au the northern sections of these lines are located
in areas of difficult terrain. The problem of these lines is to be
addressed in the National Transport Study and pending the resultu of this
study no investments will be made  on  them  (para. 1.15).   In addition,
traffic on the El Gouczi-Touggourt standard gauge line is apparently also
declining (Table i3), oil field activities having been reduced in recent
years.   Investments on this branch may need to be limited to maintaining
prevailing standards of safety in operations.
J. Costs and Tariffs
2.39.    Traffic costing is rudimentary and would be improved under the
proposed  project.   Available  data  indicate  What  rates  and  fares  are
unrelated to costs and the occasional tariff increases  I/ effected iir the
last seven years have not matched increasing coats. Cost allocations have
been made by the Bank on a replacement value depreciation basis for the
1986 notional  income accounts.   The method makes  provision for (i) the
impact of the latest tariff increases (August 1986) over the full fiscal
year; and (ii) depreciation based on replacement cost of all investments
(cost  to coumunity).   However,  depreciation  on  new  lines  (which  will
gradually come into operations from 1987 on) has been reduced to a token
allocation  commensurable  with  the   light   traffic   expected.    Also,
depreciation on infrastructure in operation has been assessed on its
marginal  cost  estimated  at  30Z.   Detaiis  of  calculations  made  are  in
Annex 7.
2.40     The  results of  the  cost  allocations  show a  low average  cost
recovery factor of 0.56* with passengers at 0.71 and iren ore and
phosphates  at  0.31  and 0.25,  respectively.   The latter two commodities
would require tariff increases of 224% and 2942 and other categories of
between 42Z to 951 to reach a 1002 operating ratio (Annex 7, Table 1).
Major tariff adjustments for phosphates would, however, be conditioned by
warld market  prices  and barter arrangements.   Short  haul  movements of
nearly 2 million tons over average distances of 10 km (brouettage) between
the ports and steel and chemical plants, is grossly underpriced.  Global
tariff increases are incorporated in the financial forecast discussed in
Chapter V  (paras. 5.27-5.30).  All tarif f matters,  including the adequacy
or otherwise of distance tapers are to be reviewed in the cost accounting
study (para. 5.06).
K.  Accounts and Audit
2.41     SNTF's Financial Department comprises seven Divisions, including
cash management, investment financing, general accounting, debt management,
budget, cost accounting, and internal audit. Particular attention would be
paid under the the project to strengthening the two latter divisions
(paras. 2.44 and 2.45).
il Tariff increases: 1979 general goods 232; 1983 passengers 35%; 1986
iron ore 301; phosphate 50Z; general goode 401; passengers - intercity
222; suburban new tariff structure.



- 20 -
2.42     Double-entry accounts are only partly kept in accordance with the
Plan Comptable National (Ord. 75 - 35 of April 29, 1975) which is
compulsory.  Income accounts and balance sheet are submitted to Government
(Ministries of Transport and Finance) and to the Cour des Comptes by no
later than three months after the close of the fiscal (calendar) year; this
timing  is  generally  adhered  to.   Centralization  of  accounts  is  still
largely done manually and more recourse to data processing is desirable.
The latter will be investigated by the costing consultants (para. 5.06).
2.43     The Cost Accounting Division presently m8nned by seven staff acts
on an ad-hoc basis aiming at limited specific objectives; no comprehensive
cost system has been developed.  Substituting for the lack of cost data,
the  commercial  division  of  the  Operations  Department  is  compiling
information to assess average costs per gross trailed ton-km (GTTK) for
freight and passengers, the findings of which bave been used to support the
tariff increases requested - and partly obtained - in 1986.
2.44     A system identifying the variable and fixed costs per line and per
commodity and service is indispensable to SNTF's management, particularly
as a new railway ri(-î~iention - providing a cost-based subsidization
mechanism - has  been  ag.eed  (para. 5.05).   Therefore,  a  comprehensive
costing study, providing lEjr about 100 man-months over an 18-month period,
should be given urgent priority.  Financing for such a study is incorpo-
rated in the proposed loan (paras. 3.12 and 5.06).
2.45     The Internal Audit Division is staffed by one person who carries
out specific field inspections. Recruitment of competent staff - although
authorized by SNTF's budget--does not seem feasible, and the recently
announced policy by Government to appoint one internal auditor per 1,000
employees in each public enterprise may well be difficult to implement.
Urgent strengthening of the Division is needed given that:
(a) the a priori control carried out in the past by the
"Contrôleur Financier" from the Ministry of Finance has been
discontinued for SNTF; and
(b)  no  formal  approval  of  SNTF's  financial  statements   is
forthcoming  from  Government  although  Ordinance  No.  75-76
dated November 21, 1975, provides for issuance of an annual
joint quitus by the Ministries of Finance and Transport.
The proposed costing study would provide for the setting up of internal
control systems and audit.
2.46     External audit is in its infancy although the concept thereof is
progressively better understood.  Sporadic investigations are conducted by
the  "Inspection  Générale  des  Finances",  as  well  as  by  the  "Cour  des
Comptes", aiming at specific objectives.  A more comprehensive approach has
been initiated in the "Loi  des  Finances"  1985  which  provides  for  the
appointment of "Commissaires aux Comptes" for each public enterprise. So
far no "Commissaire aux Comptes" has been assigned to SNTF.  A "Statut des
Commissaires  aux Comptes"  is under  preparation which will  provide for



- 21 -
stringent  professional  qualifications  and  specific  audit  procedures.
During loan negotiations, agreement has been reached on a satisfactory
scope of external audit, in line with the Bank's guidelines, as from
FY 1988.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     In order to establish a routine track renewal program and to meet
a backlog of track renewal works, a program was initiated under the First
Railway Project (Loan 936-AL) during the mid-1970s. However, the momentum
of this program was not maintained. During the period 1980-85, the railway
has only been able to accomplish an average of about 20 km of track renewal
per year. This has been increased to 80 km in 1986, with an expectea level
of 120 km in 1987.  In comparison, the objectives of the current 1985-89
plan call for renewal of about 700 km of main line track. In order to meet
the backlog, SNTF wishes to step up the rate of track renewal to about
200 km per year.  Concomitant with the implementation of the track renewal
program, SNTF plans to establish a force account capacity for mechanized
track  maintenance.   The  current  plan also  calls  for modernization  of
signalling and telecommunications but only a small part of this program has
been implemented.   The Algerian authorities have requested that the Bank
support these priority programs with a proposed Second Railway Project.
B. Project Objectives
3.02     The proposed project forms part of a broader more comprehensive
approach to Bank lending in the transport sector which includes addressing
such key issues as investment planning, pricing and fiscal policy and
improvements  in operational efficiency.   The overall objectives of  this
approach are mainly institutional, particularly the need to upgrade the
efficiency of the transport system, to improve the planning and management
of investments and to train staff.
3.03     Among the major policy objectives which are  pursued  under  the
proposed project is the need to rationalize the railway investment program
and to ensure that priority be given to rehabilitation of the network.
Secondly, high priority is given to the financial restructuring of the
railway and the need to implement a new railway convention which sets out
the relationship between the Government and the railway, particularly in
regard to pricing, compensation, responsibilities for investment, and
depreciation  charges  for  railway  infrastructure.   Finally,  the  project
would help in achieving improvements in managerial, organizational and
operational  staff  capabilities.   The  proposed  project  will assist  the
railway and the Government in these matters through the preparation and
implementation of sound, well-tailored programs for investments, and
through action plans to improve operational efficiency, accounting, tariffs
and staff training.  As such, the project will support the efforts of the
railway to establish adequate interregional bulk traffic services over its



- 22 -
core network and to develop suburban traffic  in the Algiers  area.   As
improvements in railway operations can only be achieved over a relatively
long period, the project should set the trend Z.or a longer-term cooperation
with the Bank.
C. Proiect Description
3.04     The proposed project will cover a three-year program (mid-1988 -
mid-1991) of high priority investment items as follows:
(a) a program of main line track rehabilitation and renewal
covering about 88 km of complete rehabilitation and 283 km of
renewal;
(b) support for a program of modernization of signalling and
telecommunications including inter alia the upgrading of
block systems on two selected sections of the main network;
(c)  support  for  developing  a  force  account  capacity  for
mechanized   track   maintenance,   including   provision   of
equipment;
(d) provision of specialized unloading equipment for phosphates
on the eastern mineral line;
(e)  technical  assistance  for  the  establishment  of  a  cost-
accounting system and for improving all aspects of the
planning, management and operation of the railway system; and
(f) training of SNTF personnel including providing support for
the newly created Rouiba Railway Training Institute.
3.05     During negotiations, the project objectives and description were
confirmed.
Track Rehabilitation and Renewal
3.06     Poor track conditions have seriously aggravated railway operations
and have become a major safety problem. Line capacity has been reduced and
there has been a significant increase in operating and maintenance costs.
About two-thirds of the standard gauge lines, or an equivalent of about
2,000 km, are in poor condition and need replacement of rails while many
sections  also  require  rehabilitation  of  substructure.   Without  track
rehabilitation and renewal, the track conditions would deteriorate even
further resulting in an increased safety problem, higher costs and a
greater los of capacity.
3.07     INFRAFER is now operating three track renewal units which provide
a capacity of about 120 km of track renewal each year. Given the size of
the Algerian rail network, the current capacity of INFRAFER corresponds to
the needs of a routine program of track renewal, assuming no major backlog
of renewal and rehabilitation works. However, the railway needs to step up



- 23 -
its track rehabilitation and renewal program to about 200 km per year over
the next f ive to ten years in order to meet the backlog in track works
which  has  accumulated  over  the  last  decade.   Support  from  foreign
contractors will be required for this program, particularly for the more
technically complex works  (para. 3.25).   Priority will be given to the
rehabilitation of the most heavily trafficked sections between Algiers,
Constantine and Annaba and to the eastern mineral line.  Work has just
started on a high priority 80 km section between Thenia and El Asnam with a
joint  venture  between  INFRAFER  and  local  contractor  Genisider.   The
proposed Bank project would pursue the program on the Algiers-Constantine
line with track renewal undertaken by INFRAFER on about 88 km between Beni
Mansour and Setif and a further 104 km between Setif and El Gourzi.
International contractors will be required for the more complex works on
rehabilitation of the 88 km line between Randame Jamel and Annaba and for
renewal of track on about 91 km of the eastern mineral line between E'.
Radjar and Souk Ahras. The sections included under the proposed project,
totalling about 370 km, would represent about 60% of the total track
rehabilitation  and  renewal  effort  during  the  three-year  period  of
implementation.
Signalling and Telecommunications
3.08     Obsolete  signalling  and  telecommunications  systems  are  found
throughout the railway network.  Priority is being given to modernization
of the northern main line between Oran, Algiers, Constantine and Annaba,
including the replacement of mechanical signalling by electric color-light
signals and the improvement of 60 level crossings. An automatic line block
system will be installed on the Algiers-El Harrach suburban line and a
single line tokenless manual block system on the Ramdane Jamel - Annaba
line. In addition, a total of 11 turnout control boxes would also be built
at stations on these same lines. All this equipment will increase safety,
enable higher operating apeeds and generally increase the maximum possible
charted trains.  In particular, the investments on the Algiers-El Harrach
suburban link will enable the railway to increase its share of suburban
traffic which will lead to lover econom.ic costs.  Other priority invest-
ments covered under the proposed project include the modernization of
telephone equipment for some 29 stations on the Thenia-El Gourzi section of
the Algiers-Constantine main line and for seven stations on the Randame
Jamel-Annaba line.  The project vould also provide for equipment for a
signalling and telecommunications maintenance workshop. The signalling and
telecommunications component included under the project would account for
about 40Z of the total signalling and telecommunications program approved
by the Goverament and 70% of high priority investments in this program.
The remainder of the high priority program includes the rehabilitation of
cables over about 1,000 km of which 900 km would be open wire (Annex 1,
Table 1). These cabling works are scheduled to begin during 1988. During
negotiations,  a  core  program  for  signalling  and telecommunications was
discussed and confirmed.



- 24 -
Track Maintenance EquiPment
3.09     As the track rehabilitation and renewal program is implemented, it
must be followed by an improved program of mechanized track maintenance.
Although the railway acquired a substantial amount of heavy equipment in
1985, this has been transferred to INFRAFER to cope with the track renewal
program.  Additional equipoent will therefore be procured with a view to
establishing an adequate capacity for routine maintenance. Given that SNTF
is already hiring four heavy tamping machines from INFRAFER, the additional
equipment to be procured under the project would conaist of four light
tamping machines, to be used on spot improvement works and for tamping
points, rolling stock - about 70 units - dedicated to gang transport and to
routine track jobs, eight shunters for ballast trains, various tools and
machinery specific to routine track works, a unit for recycling deterio-
rated metallic aleepers, and various handling equipment assigned to track
material storage pools  (Annex 1, Table 2).   Further  details  of  routine
track maintenance equipment are given in Annex 5. During negotiations the
list of equipment was discussed and confirmed.
Phosphate Unloading Equipment
3.10     Before  track  renewal  works  can be  undertaken  on  the  eastern
mineral line, it is necessary to solve a problem of the track ballast which
is being weakened by a leakage of phosphate fines from the hopper wagons
currently in use.   SNTF plans to introduce 280 highsided open wagons to
replace the existing hopper wagons.  However, the use of the new wagons
requires the provision of two specialized unloading facilities for the
phosphate traffic.  The unloading equipment would be f inanced under the
proposed project.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.11     A comprehensive program of technical assistance and training in
the transport sector has been initiated under the Fifth Highway Project.
For SNTF, the Fifth Highway Project provides technical assistance for
training (168 man-months), along with equipment supplies, for setting up
and operating an initial phase of a three year instructional program in a
new superior Railway Technical Institute at Rouiba, where the infrastruc-
ture is already available.   The Fifth Highway Prcject also provides for
preparation of bid documents for track renewals on the eastern mineral
line.  The proposed project will continue to support SNTF's institutional
deve'opment, including human resources and training needs, by financing a
further tranche of the training program and the supply of teaching aids and
equipment.
3.12     The project provides for 710 man-months of consultant services and
110 man-months of overseas training of SNTF staff. The consultant services
are divided into two categories as under:



- 25 -
man-months
A.  Institutional Development                                           242
a.   Cost accounting study/implementation                           100
b.   Planning/economic analysis/engineering/
centralized wagon control                                    62
c.   Personnel Administration/Training Management improvement        40
d.   Computer applications (Pilot scheme for MIS improvenent,
ticketing)                                                   20
e.   Miscellaneous                                                   20
B.  Training                                                            360
SNTF Training Centers: Rouiba                                       160
Apprentices, skills for workers and
technicians                                 180
Other                                        20
Foreign Study Tours                                                 110
3.13     Financing for about US$3.3 million will be provided for training
support materials and equipment and about US$4.3 million for computer and
office support equipment. Terms of reference for the cost accounting study
are included as Annex 8 (para. 5.06).  Outline terms of reference for the
study of a centralized wagon control system are in the Project File.
Detailed terms of reference for the training program will be prepared in
collaboration with the Bank. Further details of the training program are
given in Annex 3.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.14     Cost  estimates  for all components  included in the project are
based on late 1987 prices.   The total costs  include taxes and duties.
Estimated costs for track rehabilitation and track renewal are based on a
recent round (1986) of international bidding for the 88 km Annaba - Ramdane
Jamel section, which was cancelled due to financial constraints, and on the
recent costs of procurement of track materials.  Details of track renewal
unit costs and the estimated foreign component are given in Annex 6,
Table 1. For signalling and telecommunication and related equipment, the
costs are based on SNTF's estimates derived from prevailing market prices
and associated domestic costs. Track maintenance equipment costs are also
based on existing international price conditions.  The cost of consulting
services is based on average man-month costs for foreign consultants
(comprising individual rate, international travel and local allowances)
which are consistent with currently applied rates for Algeria for similar
services.    A   10%  physical  contingency  has  been  applied  to  track
rehabilitation and track renewal costs.



-26 -
Table 3.1: Proiect Cost Esttimates /1
------ DA million -------    ----- US$ million -          Foretgn
Direct                                           Exchange
Local   Foretgn       Total    Local   Forelon   Total   I Total
Track Rehabil1tatiton
Annaba-Ramdane Jaml (88 km)            297.0      224.5      521.5      59.4      44.9    104.3       43%
:Traek Renew l
(1)  Awards throuah ICB
El Hadjar-Souchegouf (45 km)            88.0       72.0      160.0      17.6      14.4      32.0      45%
Bouchegouf-Souk Ahras (46 km)           91.5       75.0      166.5      18.3      15.0      33.3      45%
(it)  Awards to INFRAFER
Beni Mansour-Setif (88 km)             229.5       57.5      287.0      45.9       l.S/2   57.4      20X
Setif-El Gourzi (104 km)               270.S       67.5      33a.0      54.1      1l3./Z   67.6       20%
Subtotal                           679.S      272.0      9S1.S    135.9       54.4    190.3      29%
Sionalling and Telecommunlcations
(1)  Telenhone Modernization
Thenia-El Gourzi (29 stations)          13.0       30.0       43.0       2.6       6.0       8.6      70%
Annaba-Ramdane Jamel (7 stations)        3.5        8.0       ll.S       0.7       1.6       2.3      701
(1i)  Block Installations
Single-line manual block                 1.S        4.0        S.S       0.3       0.8       1.1      73X
(Annaba-Ramdane Jamel)
Autoratic line block                     5.0       12.0       17.0       1.0       2.4       3.4      71X
(Algiers-El Harrach)
(iit)  Switch control boxes
Annaba-Ramdane Jamel (7)                10.0       19.0       29.0       2.0       3.8       5.8      66%
Algiers-El Harrach (4)                   5.0        9.0       14.0       1.0       1.8       2.8      64%
(iv)  Level-crossina automatic barriers:    9.0           21.0       30.0       1.8      4.2       6.0      70%
(v)  Light s1gnals:                            6.5       12.0       18.5       1.3      2.4       3.7      65%
(vi)  Maintenance laboratorv:                   6          3.L.0      9.0      .2L    Q.6L         1.8      33
Subtotal                        59.5       118.0      177.5      11.9     23.6      35.5      66%
Equitment for Routtne Track Maintenance
(1)  Light tamping machines (4)                2.0       14.5       16.5      0.4       2.9       3.3      88%
(i1)  Rolllng stock for gang transport
and track works                       17.0      126.0      143.0       3.4      25.2      28.6      88X
(i11)  Tools and machinery                       3.0       12.5       15.5       0.6       2.5      3.1      81%
(iv)  Metallic sleepers recycling unit          1.0        3.0       4.0       0.2       0.6       0.8      75%
(v)  Handling equipment                       3.0        12.o       15.O                - .4      3.0L    80%
Subtotal                        26.0       168.0      194.0      5.2      33.6      38.8      87%
Annaba Phosphate Terminals
Unloading equipment                      5.0       10.0       15.0       1.0       2.0       3.0      67%
Technical Assistance/Training
(i)  Instltutional development                 3.5      14.5        18.0      0.7       Z-9       3.6      80%
(t1)  Training                                  S.S       21.5       27.0       1.1      4.3       5.4      80%
(1ii)  Overseas Study Tours                      0.0        3.0        3.0       0.0       0.6      0.6    100%
(iv)  Training materials                       11.0       16.5       27.5       2.2      3.3       5.S      60%
(v)  Support equipment                       14.        ZIh         36.0 2I..2          4.3       7.2      60M
Subtotal                        34.5       77.0      111.5       6.9      15.4      22.3      69%
TOTAL OASE COST                      1101.5       869.5   1.971.0    220.3    173.9    394.2          44%
Physical Contingencies /1                47.6       37.2       84.8       9.6       7.4      17.0      44%
Prtce Conttngencles/4                   179.1      139.0      318.1      11.1       8.7      19.8      44X
TOTAL COST                            1,328.2   1.045.7   2.373.9    241.0    190.0    431.0           44%
1/  Base costs are late 1987; some figures may not add up precisely due to rounding.
Z/  Direct foreign exchange cost of track materials; details of track materials are gtven ln Table 14.
}/  10% on civil works contracts only.
y Applied to base cost and physical contingenc1es using the following Inflation rates (X):
lm8   lm   lm    1m
Local              11.0      10.0      10.0       10.0
Foreign             3.0       3.0       3.0        4.0
Project tmplementation from mid-1988 to mid-1991.



- 27 -
3.15     The proposed loan would finance a part of the estimated foreign
exchange costs of contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, for (a) track
rehabilitation ani treck renewal; (b) track materials for track renewal
work which vould be performed by INFRAFER (paras. 3.18 and 3.25);
(c) supply and insta.Mation of signalling and telecommunications equipment
(except provision of installed communication cables and the installation of
level  crossing  equipiaent  for  which  nominated  contractors  would  be
employed);  (d)  supply  of  equipment  for  routine  track  maintenance;
(e) supply of phosphate unloading equipment; and (f) consultants' services
for technical assistance and training, including related training materials
and equipment.
3.16     The total cost of the project, including physical and price con-
tingencies, is estimated at DA 2.4 billion, equivalent to US$431 million,
with a foreign exchange cost of US$190 million (Table 3.1).  As such, the
project would account for close to 30% of total railway investments
expected during the three-year implementation period from mid 1988 to mid
1991.   The  cost  of  negotiated  contracts  for  track  renewal and  level
crossing works has been excluded from total project costs in order to
establish  the  size of  the Bank  loan  (paras. 3.18, 3.19 and 3.25).   A
proposed Bank loan of US$143 million would meet about 75% of the foreign
exchange cost of the project.  A joint co-financing arrangement has been
confirmed by the Japan Ex-Im Bank in the amount of US$47 million,
representing the balance of the foreign exchange cost.
3.17     The largest part - about 85% - of the proposed project is for
track and related investments, which are being financed by unreimbursable
contributions from Government to SNTF (concours définitifs).  Likewise, the
training component of the proposed project is the financial responsibility
of Government, leaving ouly the study and technical assistance project
component to be financed by SNTF. However, the new policy presently being
formulated by Government calling for larger autonomy for public enterprises
will ultimately require the latter to finance directly their debt service
regardless of the ultimate usage of borrowed funds.  In view of the new
policy, the proposed loan would be made to SNTF with Government reimbursing
852 of the actual debt service on the Bank loan. During negotiations, the
project  cost  estimates  were  discussed  and  confirmed.   The  terms  and
conditions of reimbursement by the Government to SNTF of its share of debt
service on the loan (para. 5.11) are covered in the Project Action Plan
(para. 3.23).
E. Implementation and Action Plan
Implementation
3.18     Track rehabilitation of 88 km and track renewals of 91 km are to
be executed by  contractors.   Bids  for the 88 km Annaba-Ramdane  Jamel
section for which bidding documents are complete, are scheduled to be
invited in January 1988 and contracts would be awarded in early 1988 and
would be eligible for retroactive financing (paras. 3.26 and 3.29).  Bid
documents for track renewal on Beni Mansour - Setif and Setif - El Gourzi
sections, totalling 192 km, to be performed by INFRAFER, will be limited to



- 28 -
procurement of track materials (para. 3.25).  The estimated quantities of
track materials are shown in Table 14. Advertising for track materials is
expected in the f irst half of 1988 with contract award by the time of loan
effectiveness.  For the 91 km of track renewal on the El Hadjar-Bouchegouf
and Bouchegouf-Souk Ahras sections, the site survey, execution plan and bid
documents are currently being prepared.  Financing of consultant services
for this purpose are provided under the ongoing Fifth Highwdy Project. As
the preparatory work vill take about one year, the contract will be awarded
in early 1989.   Implementation schedules for the track and other work is
shown in Chart 2.
3.19     Bid documentation for the supply and installation of signalling
and  telecommunications  equipment  will  be  completed  in  early  1988.
Installation of this equipment would start during the latter part of 1988
and the first quarter of 1989.  Laboratory, level crossing and color-light
signal equipment orders are scheduled to be finalized in 1988 and
deliveries completed by mid 1989. SASIF, a joint venture of Siemens with
local enterprise, is to undertake the installation of level crossing
equipment.   The  telephone  equipment for stations can only be installed
after the communications cables have been laid between Algiers-Constantine
and Skikda-Ramdane-Jamel-Annaba.  The cables are locally manufactured and
are to be installed by a local enterprise.  Cable deliveries and laying
will  begin  during  1988:   placing  orders  for  telephone  equipment  in
mid-1989, with deliveries specified for completion in early  1990,  will
leave just enough time to install and test the equipment within the
manufacturer's guarantee periods.
3.20     Track maintenance equipment supply, deliveries and commissioning
would be phased in such a way as to enable the Infrastructure Directorate
of the SNTF to mobilize and train the operational personnel and set up the
appropriate normal mechanized maintenance organization in each of the four
regions.  The phasing in of new equipment  is also tailored to suit  the
successive take-over by the regional organizations of the completed track
rehabilitation and renewal sections, scheduled to occur in the period late
1989 to end-1991.
3.21     The  main  components  of  technical  assistance  are  the  cost
accounting study and the organization of training for the technical and
management cadres at the Rouiba school and foreign study tours training of
selected SNTF staff.  SNTF will be responsible for recruiting consultants
for the cost accounting study and for procuring training materials aad
equipment.   Instructor  selection  for  the  Rouiba  center  and  candidate
selections for foreign study tours are planned to commence before mid-1988
and training continued through 1991.
Action Plan
3.22     The Action  Plan  shown  in Annex  1 constitutes  a  comprehensive
record of project objectives and activities, including what action has
already been taken, as well as timing and responsibilities relating to
various steps and action to be taken during project implementation.   The
Action Plan provides for:



- 29 -
(a) broad agreement on the overall scope and priorities of the
railway investment program through 1990 and presentation of
the annual program to the Bank;
(b) arrangements for improvements in the orgainization and in the
operational efficiency of the railway;
(c) various actions related to improvement in the railway's
financial performance including specific financial targets
for 1991;
(d) administrative, project preparation and procurement arrange-
ments for the project; and
(e) provision for training with particular reference to planning
and project preparation, equipment maintenance and track
maintenance.
3.23     One of the key items of the Action Plan is the overall scope and
content of  the  railway  investment  program  through  1990,  including  the
balance  of  allocations  between new  investments  and  rehabilitation  and
maintenance of the existing  railway  system.   During  loan negotiations,
assurances  were  obtained  that  the Government  would allocate sufficient
resources for the rehabilitation and renewal of about 200 km of track
annually. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would present
the draft annual railway sector investment budgets to the Bank, beginning
in 1988.  The Project Action Plan also summarizes the key features of the
Railway Convention and defines the terms of reimbursement by Government to
SNTF of infrastructure investments partly financed by foreign loans
(paras. 5.05 and 5.11).
3.24     At negotiations, the content of the Project Action Plan and the
schedule   of   project   implementation  were  discussed  and  confirmed.
Assurances were also obtained that the project would be implemented in line
with the provisions of the Action Plan and that the plan will be updated
annually in agreement with the Bank.
F. Procurement
3.25     Although SNTF wishes  to make maximum use of local capacity to
execute the track renewal program, it realizes that in order to catch up
with much of the backlog and to achieve an implementation rate of about
200 km per year, there will be a need to rely on foreign contractors for
about half of the program, who would be engaged through international
competitive bidding (ICB).  The other half of the track program under the
proposed project would be  undertaken  through negotiated  contracts with
INFRAFER, the Bank financing track materials only.
3.26     Given the proposed joint co-financing arrangement with the Japan
Ex-Im Bank, all proecurement procedures would be handled by the Bank.
Procurement will be in accordance with ICB procedures for civil works
totalling US$195 million including contingencies.   These works  would be



- 30 -
organized in two contract packages of sufficient size to attract competent
foreign  contractors.   Track  materialu  totalling  US$26 million  including
contingencies and equipuent totalling US$78 million including contingencies
would be grouped into about 20 contract packages and procured through ICB
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Fcr procurement of goode through ICB,
local suppliera would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duty applicable on non-exempt imports or 15S of
the cost-insurance-freight (CIF) price, whichever is lower. Nabla elastic
track fastenings (SNTF standards), which are a propriety item, vill be
procured   through   direct   purchase   (about   US$5.5 million).    Training
materials, training aids, computer and operational support equipment,
totalling   about   US$13 million   would   be   procured   through   limited
international bidding, except for contracta estimated to cost less than
US$150,000 which would be procured by international shopping: for such
items SNTF would obtain written price quotations from at least three
qualified  suppliers.   About  600  man-months  of  consultants  services  for
training and studies would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines  for  the  use  of  consultants.   The  procurement  categories  and
respective amounts, inclusive of physical and price contingencies, are
shovn in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2:  Proeurement Analysis
--------ICB--------
materials               mot
Prolecet Élemns             Works     EqElaTnt      Other  Apalicable    Total
_____ __ ___------- US$ million /1 ------------------
1. Track Rehabilltation       119.7                                        119.7
(51.6>                                       (51.0)
2. Track Renewal (ICI)        75.0         2S.8         S.5 /2 100.9 /l    207.2
(34.0)      (21.6)       (4.6)               (60.2)
3. Sîgnall1ng/Telecommunicatîons           34.6                  2.5 /I     37.1
(24.7)                          (24.7)
4. Track Maintenance Equtpment             40.6                             40.6
(35.2)                          (3S.2)
S. Phosphate Terminals                      3.1                              3.1
(2.1)                           (2.1)
6. Trainlng Matertal/Equîpment                         13.3 /.              13.3
(8.0>               <8.0)
7. Tralning/Technîcal Assistance                        9.4 /5               9.4
(7.6)               (7.6)
8. Foreign Study Tours                                  0.6                  0.6
10 6)    -0.61
194.7       104.1        28.8    103.4       431.0
(8S.6)      (83.6)      (20.8>              (190.0)
/1  Costs include est1mated contingencies
/2  Otrect purchase of track fastenings
/1  Implementatîon costs of negotiated contracts not f nanced by Bank
(reserved procurement)
/4  Llmtted lnternational bldd1ng or international shopping
/5  Employment of consultants
Note: Figures in parentheses Indicate amounts to be financed jointly by
Bank/Japan Ex-lm Bank.



- 31 -
3.27     All  contracte  for  civil  works,  and  those  for  materials  and
equipuent in excess of US$500,000 each would be subject to prior review.
This would cover more than 90S of estimated total contract values.  Other
Bank-financed  contracte  would  be  subject  to pout-avard  review.   These
procedures are compatible with the Bank's objectives of ensuring economy,
efficiency and overall project soundness.
G. Diabursements
3.28     On the assumption that the Bank loan would finance 75% of the
tGtal foreign exchange cost, disbursements of the Bank loin would be made
on the following basis:
(a) civil works: 322 of total co6ts for track rehabilitation and
34S of total costs for track renewal let under ICB;
(b) 75% of foreign expenditures for track materials;
(c)  75%   of   foreign   expenditures   for    signalling    and
telecommunications equipment;
(d)  75% of foreign expenditures for track maintenance equipment;
(e) 75Z of foreign expenditures on phosphate unloading equipment;
(f)  752 of foreign expenditures for training materials and office
support equipment;
(g) 752 of total expenditures on consultants services for
technical assistance and training; and
(h) 752 of the cost of foreign study tours.
3.29     Disbursements would be made against Statement of Experditure (SOE)
for eligible expenditures under contracts valued at US$250,000 equivalent
or  less.   Supporting  documentation  for  these would be retained by the
Borrower and made avai^able for review by the Bank during supervision.  The
annual audits of the projects accounts would include a separate opinion on
the disbursements made under the SOE procedure.  This investigation would
be part of a general external audit (para. 2.46). All other disbursements
vould be made against normal documentation submitted to the Bank.
Agreement was reached during negotiations, on satisfactory procedures for
disbursements under SOE.
3.30     In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account would be
opened at a commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized
allocation of US$15 million (four-month average of eligible expenditures).
The documentation for replenishment requests would follow the same
procedures as in para. 3.29. In addition, monthly bank statements of the
Special  Account  would accompany  replenishment  requests.   Agreement  was
reached during negotiations, on the establishment and operation of the
Special Account which would also be audited annually as part of the general
external audit (para. 2.46).



- 32 -
3.31     The closing date of the Bank loan vould be December 31, 1992.  The
diabursement schedule shown in Table 14 has been developed from the
implementation schedule shown in Chart 2 and assumes the project would be
effective by September 1988, and would be completed by December 31, 1991.
Disbursements under the First Railway Project took six years, although 852
of the loan vas disbursed after four years.  Disbursements under the three
highwp'y projects in Algeria have averaged about six years but two of them
have included complex new construction components which ran into delays and
required design  changes.   As the civil works under the project will be
undertaken under traffic, they will by necessity have to be completed
according  to  a  tight  schedule.   On  this  basis,  it  is  expected  that
disbursements would take place over a five year period.
H. Environmental Impact
3.32     Civil works under the project would be undertaken essentially along
existing alignments and there would be no adverse environmental impact. As
a result of the proposed investments, the increased efficiency in railway
operations will cause some reduction in fossil fuel use along the routes
included under the project.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Because of an inadequate track maintenance strategy during the last
two decades the condition of railway network in Algeria bas deteriorated,
accumulating a serious backlog of track renewal and rehabilitation.   The
SNTF and the Government are nov aware of the need to redress this situation,
and the railway has embarked on a substantial program of track rehabilita-
tion and modernization.  Over 50% of railway investments during the period
1988-90 will be allocated to rehabilitation and modernization of the
existing infrastructure, the share allocated to the completion of ongoing
investments  in  new   lines   gradually  declining   during   this   period
(para. 2.22).  The proposed project  focuses priority on those most heavily
trafficked sections of the network, namely on the northern trunk line
between Algiers, Constantine and Annaba, and on the mineral line between
Annaba and Souk Ahras.
4.02     The proposed track rehabilitation and renewal programs will enable
the railway to continue carrying essenti&l bulk traffic over two of its most
important routes at reasonable economic costs.   In  the absence  of  such
programs, the condition of the track would continue to deteriorate, inducing
even much higher operating coste.   Ultimately the rail service might be
disrupted  leading  to  additional  costs  to  the  economy.   The  proposed
improvements in track and in signalling and telecommunications facilities
along these key routes will provide substantial savings in deferred track
repairs, which would otherwise be necessary to keep the lines open to
traffic,  as well  as  in equipment operating and maintenance costa.   The
proposed project also aims at establishing a force account capacity for



- 33 -
mechanized routine track mainte-ance within SNTF in order to ensure a
standard lifetime of the track. This improved maintenance program will also
generate savings in operating and maintenance cost6.  These savinga wouid
ultimately be passed on to rail users through slower' increases in rail
tariffs, thereby lowering the cost of goods and products.  The programs will
also contribute towards savings in foreign exchange through increases in
efficiency in the use of resources, both in railway equipment and in
consumable  items, as well as  ensure continued foreign exchange earnings
from the export of phosphates. As such, these investments will enable the
railway to continue to play a key role in the development of the economy in
the coming years.
B. Traffic Growth
4.03     Over the period 1967-86, the total traffic of gross trailed ton-km
has increased at about 5% per year for the whole network (3,700 km),
respectively at 3% for passenger traffic and U'» for freight.  About 90% of
the total traffic is concentrated on a core network of about 2,200 km of
standard gauge lines.  Traffic growth on this core network over the past
twenty years has been slightly higher than for the network as a whole.
Although since 1980 overall traffic growth has fallen somewhat to about 2.6%
per year, all track works to be financed under the proposed project are
located on sections of the core network where, with the exception of  the
eastern mineral line, traffic growth has generally been above average.
Table 4.1: Rail Traffic Growth (% per year)
Line                        1967 - 86                   1980 - 86
Passenger Freight Total Passenger Freight Total
Algiers-Constantine      3.4       8.4      6.3       2.5       5.4      4.4
Annaba-Ramdane.Jamel  - 1.6       11.4      8.5     - 5.6       4.0       3.1
Annaba-0. Keberit        4.9       3.4      3.5       5.9       0.3      0.6
4.04     Traffic  forecasts for the different sections under the proposed
project have been based on simplified growth patterns with conservative
assumptions on future growth. Apart from the eastern mineral line, freight
traffic growth is expected to increase at about 2.5% per year through 1991,
the proposed track renewal program precluding any additional growth.
Beyond 1991, once the track works have been completed, freight traffic
growth on the main network is expected to increase to about 5% per year.
Forecasts for the mineral line are based on no increase in traffic up to
1991  followed  by a  2.5%  per year  increase  in  the  longer  term.   For
passenger traffic, the average increase is expected to be about 2.5% per
year,  except  on  the  section  Ramdane  Jamel  - Annaba  where  traffic  is
expected to remain stagnant up to 1991, followed by a 2.5% per year
increase once track improvements have been completed.



- 34 -
C. Track Rehabilitation and Reneval
4.05     The economic  effects  of  track  rehabilitation  and  reneval  are
similar, the differences consisting only in the degree of improvement.
Track reneval normally includes replacement of rails, track fastenings and
sleepers, with only minor work on the substructure. Track rehabilitation
normally involves removal and reconstruction of the substructure and
ballast as well as the provision of new track materials. Minor changes in
al.gnment can also be included in track rehabilitation. The main benefits
of track improvements are:
(a) reductions in track maintenance costa;
(b) reductions in train operating costs through higher operating
speeds;
(c) decrease of vear and hence of maintenance costs of locomo-
tives and rolling stock; and
(d) increased safety through fewer derailments.
4.06     Reductions in track maintenance costs constitute by far the most
important benefits of track rehabilitation and renewal.  Such costs would
increase substantially in the future in order to keep lines open to
traffic,  this  being  the  only  reasonable  scenario  compared  to  the
alternative of line closure and diversion of traffic to road transport.
D. Signalling and Telecommunications
4.07     Investments  in signalling  and  telecommunications  are necessary
because existing equipment is obsolete and inadequate for the efficient
operation of the railway.  The principal effects of modernizing signalling
are:
(a) increased safety which is reflected in a decrease in accident
costs;
(b) reduced block times through increased speeds which follow
from more rapid execution of signalling actions thereby
increasing utilization of traction and rolling stock; and
(c) savings in staff costs resulting from the introduction of
automatic  signalling  functions  and  the  introduction  of
automatic level crossing gates.
4.08     While  the effects  of modern signalling can be quantified,  the
benefits associated with telecommunications investments are difficult to
estimate on a line-by-line basis. Clearly these investments increase staff
productivity and raise the general efficiency of railway operations.



- 35 -
E. Economic Return
4.09     Annex 6 describes the assumptions used in the economic analysis of
the  track  rehabilitation/renewal  components  and  the  signalling  and
telecommunications  improvements under the proposed project.   An economic
evaluation has been undertaken for each of the five track rehabilitation
and reueval sub-projects which together account for over 75% of total
project  coasts.   Track  rehabilitation  and  renewal  will  be  of  special
significance for the main line linking Algiers, Constantine and Annaba, the
proposed project providing for 88 km of rehabilitation and 192 km of
renewal along this route.  This is in addition to ongoing rehabilitation
works covering 80 km between Thenia and El Esnam (para. 3.07).
4.10     The proposed investments in signalling and telecommunications are
concentrated mainly on two key lines, namely Annaba - Ramdane Jamel and
Algiers - El Harrach, these investments accounting for about 4% of project
costs and about 45% of signalling and telecommunications investments under
the  project.   Signalling  and  telecommunications  improvements  on  the
Annaba - Ramdane  Jamel  line would  involve upgrading to a single line,
tokenless block system, including the provision of telephone equipment in
seven stations as well as seven turnout control boxes.  Signalling on the
Agiers  -  El  Harrach  suburban  line  will  involve  installation  of  an
automatic  line  block  system  and  four  turnout  control  boxes  thereby
increasing capacity and safety for commuter traffic.  Other signalling and
telec.mmunications investments under the project include the upgrading of
60 level crossings and the provision of electric signals throughout the
ncsthern main line as well as station telephone equipment at 29 stations
between Algiers and Constantine. As the effects of these other investments
are so diffused throughout the system, no attempt has been made to estimate
individual ERs for these investments. Similarly, the benefits of improved
routine track maintenance, which will be built up gradually following the
rehabilitation and renewal program and the introduction of new track
maintenance equipment, have not been estimated.
4.11     Table 4.2 summarizes the results of the economic evaluation ror
the various project components, based on the most probable estimates of
costs of construction, equipment, operation and maintenance. The estimated
ERs on the track rehabilitation and renewal prog,am range from 18% to 27%
with an overall average of about 22%.  The ERs are somewhat higher for
track renewal as opposed to track rehabilitation in view of the lower unit
investment  costs.   Because of the absence of origin-destination traffic
data which would be necessary to assess the costs of a road transport
alternative, a detailed evaluation for the signalling and telecommunica-
tions improvements on the Annaba - Ramdane Jamel and Algiers - El Harrach
lines was not possible. However, these investments are estimated to yield
ERs of at least 15%, as are the more diffused investments in station
telephone equipment and level crossing improvements (Annex 6). Investments
in track maintenance machines which will enable the railway to gradually
develop a routine track maintenance program should have an ER of at least
30%. Based on these assumptions, the overall ER for the project would be
about 22%. All investments would yield acceptable first year benefits (FYB)



- 36 -
Table 4.2: Economic Returns (ERs)
Proiect Component                     Proportion of               Sensitivity
Total Investment /1  ER      Analysis /2
A.  Track Rehabilitation
Annaba-Ramdane Jamel (88 km)              28            18        14
B. Track Renewal
(i) Beni Mansour-Setif (88 km)            16           24         18
(ii) Setif-El Gourzi (104 km)              18           22         16
(iii) E1 Hadjar-Bouchegouf (45 km)           9            22        18
(iv) Bouchegouf-Souk Ahras (46 km)          9           27         22
C.  Signalling and Telecommunications         10            15 /3     12 /3
D.  Track Maintenance Equipment               10            30 /3     20 /3
Total                                        100            22
11 Excluding studies and training.
2/ Assumes 10% increase in costs combined with 10% decrease in benefits.
3/ Estimates only (see Annex 6).
in excess of 102. Even with a 10% reduction in project benefits combined
vith a 10% increase in coats, all p-oject components continue to show
acceptable  ERs.   As  a  whole,  the  results  of  the  evaluation  can  be
considered conservative in view of the broad, systemwide effects of the
proposed project and the increased comfort and convenience for passengers
on the improved facilities.
F. Project Risk
4.12     The proposed  project  supports  high  priority  components of the
1985-89  railway  investment  plan.   In addition,  all  project  components
involve proven technology and their economic justification has been clearly
demonstrated.   The  main  area  of  risk  relates  to  possible  delays  in
implementing track works, although this problem will be mitigated through
the use of experienced international contractors on the more difficult
sections of track. A second area of risk involves possible shortfalls in
financial resources for the project.   iowever,  the project includes  the
highest priority components of the investment program.  In addition, close
monitoring of overall investment allocations under the provisions of the
Project Action Plan should provide a safeguard against a shortage of funds.
4.13     Finally, a sensitivity analysis has been conducted to test the
effects on the viability of project components of a substantial change in
the dinar exchange rate. After estimating the share of foreign exchange



- 37 -
expenditures in project costs and project benefits, these were then
converted into border prices assuming a devaluation of the dinar of lOOX.
Although this change affects costs and benefits in a similar manner, the
slightly higher foreign exchange component of project cost tends to give
marginally lower ERs.  Bowever,  all project components  continue to show
acceptable ERs under this assumption ranging from 14S to about 22%.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Relationship between State and SNTF and Institutional Matters
Introduction
5.01     Until January 1, 1977 the institutional relationship between the
State and SNTF and their respective financial responsibilities were written
into a Railway Convention dating from June 30, 1959.  However, the provi-
sions of the 1959 Convention have not always been adhered to; Government
compensation was not or was only partly granted and, consequently, the
financial situation of SNTF deteriorated steadily until drastic corrective
action became necessary.   In December 1978,  the Government agreed to a
series of financial measures (known as Restructuration Financière) which
included inter alia:  (a)  consolidation and refinancing of existing debt
on  concessionary  terms;   (b)   cancellation  of  overdue  interest;  and
(c) granting of additional working capital.  However, the 1959 Convention
was not replaced and, since 1978, the respective financial responsibilities
of State and SNTF have been unclear, resulting in erratic contributions of
Government totally unrelated to SNTF's requirements.
5.02     Since  abrogation  of  the  convention,  Government  contributions
comprise an annual flat compensation for below-cost passenger tariffs of
DA 3.5 million and a subsidy (subvention d' équilibre) to cover the cost of
vocational training (a policy applicable to all public enterprises), and
interest charges on external lending for purchase of rolling stock
(perpetuating  a  measure  taken  as  part  of  the  1978  restructuration
financière).  The compensation paid for low tariffs is grossly inadequate
and was discontinued in 1982 but resumed with retroactive effect in 1986.
In addition, since 1983, the subsidy also includes track maintenance costs
and this has tripled the annual amount of the Government contribution.
These contributions compensate only in part SNTF's operating deficits which
had to be financed by a substantial Bank overdraft.  On the other hand,
Government contributions to capital expenditure have remained in line with
the provisions of the 1959 Convention. The State finances the construction
and renewal of track, and SNTF finances rolling stock and other equipment
through borrowing from Banque Algérienne de Développement (BAD) for long
term,  and  from  Banque  Nationale  d'Algérie  (BNA)  for  medium  term.
Self-financing of capital expenditure has recently been authorized, but it
has obviously not been available to SNTF.



- 38 -
Financial Restructuring
5.03     Below-cost   tariffs,  inadequate  Government   compensation,   and
increasing  working  expenses  have  deeply  deteriorated  SNTF's  earnings
position. This situation, together with the unsatisfactory collect4on of
receivables and a growing debt service, made it necessary to undergo a
second financial restructuring.  Various proposals were submitted by SNTF
to Government since 1985. A final set of measures were approved by the
Council of Ministers in November 1987 and these measures were implemented
early in 1988 as part of the 1988 "Loi des Finances".   These measures
provided for:
(a)  Government contribution of DA 1,000 million to SNTF's equity;
(b)  consolidation by Government of principal due by SNTF to BAD
and Treasury on December 31, 1986, and not paid, in the
amount of about DA 460 million;
(c)  loan from Treasury of DA 650 million; and
(d)  a global tariff increase of 202.
5.04     The  financial  restructuring also  provides  for  compensation  by
Government of SNTF's operating deficits (including interest charges) in
1987 and 1988.   These measures have greatly assisted in re-establishing
SNTF's creditworthiness and were considered a prerequisite for Bank
lending.
Railway Convention
5.05     Experience has proved that financial restructuring measures have
only short-lived curative effects unless they are taken in conjunction with
well defined policies which state anew the respective responsibilities
- for  operations  and  investment  -  of  State  and  SNTF.   Therefore,
concurrently with the second financial restructuring, a new Railway
Convention has been drawn up which provides for Government compensation to
cover uneconomic lÎnes and services, below-cost tariffs, fare reductions
imposed by Government, purchase of rolling stock imposed by Government but
not warranted by operations, and level-crossing costs. The convention also
provides   for   unreimbursable   financing   by  State  of   infrastructure
investments,  including  maintenance  costs.   The  railway  convention  was
approved by the Council of Ministers in November 1987 and will be signed
shortly.   Confirmation  to  this  effect  has  been  received  from  the
Government.   In addition, the main features of the railway convention are
included as part of the Project Action Plan (para. 3.23).
5.06     The new railway convention can be operative only if reliable cost
accounting is available to substantiate SNTF's claims for compensation.
The  proposed  project  makes  provision  for  the  services  of  costing
consultants  which  are  to  develop  such pricing  tool.   Draft  terms of
reference have been prepared and are shown in Annex 8.  During negotia-
tions, the terms of reference and implementation arrangements for the study
vere discussed and confirmed. Assurances vere also obtained that SNTF



- 39 -
would employ cost accounting consultants by December 1, 1988 and that the
proposed cost accounting system would be presented to the Bank for review
and comment by December 1, 1989.
5.07     A complete costing system cannot be operative before FY 1990;
until such time compensation due to SNTF will have to be assessed on the
basis of data available.   During  this unavoidable  intermediate  period,
close monitoring by the Bank will be needed to ensure to the extent
possible adequate compensation to SNTF.
Other Institutional Matters
5.08     The acknowledged policy of Government is to separate institution-
ally railway operations from railway investment and renewal works and,
eventually  later on,  from railway project  preparation.   Therefore,  by
Decree No. 86.162 dated August 5, 1986, the public enterprise INFRAFER was
created to carry out track and related works, including renewals and major
maintenance.   It started operations on January 1, 1987; about 950 staff
from SNTF's track department were transferred to INFRAFER with no change in
statute or pay.  Currently,  INFRAFER acts as SNTF's force account track
unit, with track materials provided by SNTF. However, if INFRAFER is to be
dealt with as a contractor in competition with domestic and foreign
construction  companies,  it  will  need  the  appropriate  technical  and
financial means to carry out track works. This will involve transfer from
SNTF of necessary track construction and maintenance equipment, and related
inventories, and adequate working capital.
5.09     In the past SNTF has been the institutional channel of studies and
other activities related to the future metro of Algiers. Since January 1,
1985, these operations have been passed on to the newly created Entreprise
du métro d'Alger.  However, SNTF is still carrying in its books studies
amounting  to about  DA 375 million and  some  related opera.ing expenses.
These entries should be eliminated from the balance sheet; provision to
that effect is in the Acticn Plan (Annex 1).
5.10     The present investment financing system calls for SNTF to finance
studies out of its own resources; they are ultimately repaid by unreimburs-
able State contributions  to  investment  (Concours Définitifs).   Actually
SNTF pre-finances these studies through Bank overdraft with ensuing
interest charges which are not reimbursed by Government.  This practice
will be discontinued soon with the setting up of a railway project
preparation enterprise distinct from SNTF; the decree establishing the new
enterprise is under preparation.
5.11     SNTF  is fully servicing  Bank Loan  No.  996-AL  (First  Railway
Project) dated June 10, 1974, and the Government is reimbursing to SNTF its
share (about 70%) corresponding to the track portion of the project.
During loan negotiations, arrangements were agreed upon for easy identifi-
cation of the track and training portion of the proposed project in the
"Proceeds of the Loan" which are to be reimbursed in a timely manner by
Government to SNTF.  Provision to this effect is included in the Project
Action Plan (para. 3.23).



- 40 -
B. Past Financial Performance
Income Accounts
5.12     SNTF's  income accounts  over  the  period  1979-86  are  shown  in
Annex 7, Table 2. A summary follows:
Table 5.1: SNTF Income Accounts 1979-86
tOA mill ion)                 4ate-growthf
Revenue                   818   917   928   867  1090  1081  1172  1286      S7 .
Workîng Expenses         720  835   888   964  1103  llso  1265  1463       103$
0eorec ztion              .2    LU   -!4  -Lu  -as  .U   .21.   42M    lm1
Operat-g (xpenses         MA   2Si  !Q2   LUi  l2m115I  147e  1732          L=1Z
met Operating Loss       --    31   94   239   199   272   307   446
tnterest                 _2   -U  ....   .11  ..J   114  178 _5                                1
Met LosS Atter !nterest   92   99   158   324   280   386   48S   632
Net mon-operating
Revenue/Lois              4               11 -à           . r      L LI1
Net Deficit               88   88   152   356   259   425   S19   799
5.13     Revenue accrues from suburban and long-distance passenger traffic
(about 25S of total traffic revenue), the annual State contribution of
DA 3.5 million to partly compensate for below-cost fares imposed by
Government (until 1981 and again  in 1986),  from freight  traffic  in FCL
(about 50% of total traffic revenue), small revenue from baggages, parcels,
mail, storage, etc., as well as operating subsidies from Government
covering vocational training, interest charges on foreign lending, and,
since 1983, track maintenance expenses.  Staff costs rep::esent an unusually
high 70-75S of working expenses.   Over the period considered, staff costs
have increased substantially but this is essentially due to incorporation
into  staff  of about 4,500 hourly workers  in 1981.   Staff numbers were
reduced substantially in 1987 following transfers to INFRAFER (para. 5.08).
However, staff costs increased as a result of the new personnel stat.ce and
job classification (Statut Général des Travailleurs - SGT) applied by
mid-1986 with retroactive effect to January 1, 1985.  So far staff nunbers
and productivity and cost per employee have fluctuated approximately as
follows:
Table 5.2: Staff Number Productivity 1979-86
1122  Lm   11  1        =    lm   lm
Aver4ae Staff                   12.998 13 288 1t.364 9.503 19.503 19.200 19.4S0 19.IS0
TrOfftc Units (million)         4.387 4.S47 4.89 4.529 4.475 4,464 S.049 4.926
Productlvity 0er (ploye  (<TU 000)    --   --   236 233   229  232   240   as?
Average Cost per ogloye (<D 000)   40   4S   34   38   42   45   47    si



- 41 -
5.14     Considering  the  substantial  portion  of  FCL  traffic  carried
productivity per employee should be higher.   The objective written into
the Action Plan is a productivity per capita of 330,000 traffic units by
1990 which would be in line vith comparable railways (Annex 1, Table 3).
5.15     Materials,  fuel,  and  other  (frais  divers  de  gestion)  working
expenses are relatively amall when compared vith payroll (+ 20S); this is
one of the few headings where SNTF can most freely act, and the low level
of such expenses reflects SNTF's tight f inancial position. Taxes are high
and comprise TUGPS (Taxe Unique Globale sur les Prestations de Service), a
6% levy (increased to 8% in 1984) on gross traffic revenue, TAIC (Taxe sur
les activités industrielles et comnerciales), a 2.5S levy, also on gross
traffic revenue, a tax of 6% on salaries and 32 on compulsory contributions
to social works, and a tax on turnover and miscellaneous. Total taxation
now stands at about 14Z of gross revenue (excluding subsidy). Financial
charges concern interest on internal and external lending and on the
ever-growing bank overdraft (reaching by end 1986 DA 1.75 billion).
5.16     As a result of increasing working expenses and inadequate tariffs,
the working ratio deteriorated from 88 in 1979 to 114 in 1986; however, the
deterioration would have been worse had it not been partly offset during
1983-86  by  the  granting  of  larger  operating  subsidies.   Without  such
subsidies the working ratio would have increased from 100 in 1979 to 138 in
1986.  The operating ratio - not too meaningful because of the prevailing
depreciation policy - deteriorated from 100 in 1979 to 135 in 1986; without
subsidies, the operating ratio would have increased from 113 in 1979 to 163
in 1986.
5.17     Depreciation  is  based  on  historical  cost.   It  comprises  two
chapters; one concerns rolling stock and other equipment which is being
depreciated at 4% p.a. based on a plausible average economic life of 25
years;  the  other  chapter  concerns  infrastructure  (track  and  related
investments); overhead costs estimated at 32 of such investments carried
out during the FY are charged to depreciation (the latter allocation is
made only once). Both allocations fall substantially short of depreciation
based on replacement value.
5.18     Ordinance No. 75.35 dated April 29, 1975, establishing the "Plan
Comptable National" states that investments are to be accounted for at
historical cost, with depreciation calculated accordingly. The Government
acknowledges that a realistic pricing policy requires costs to include a
depreciation  allowance  based  on  replacement  cost  and  is  preparing
appropriate legislation which will embody such change.   During negotia-
tions, the Government issued a Letter of Intent confirming above measures
and stating that the financial objectives for SNTF as detailed in
paras. 5.29 and 5.30 would be assessed taking into account depreciation on
all investments, whether financed by state or SNTF, at replacement cost.
5.19     Operating deficits - which are not compensated by subsidies - are
accrued (about DA 2.8 billion by end 1986) and charged to equity. The high
net  non-operating   loss  shown   in   1986   (DA 167 million)   represents
essentially  the  effect  of  S.G.T.  retroactively  throughout  FY  1985
(para. 5.13).



- 42 -
5.20     The earnings position of SNTF has continued to deteriorate rapidly
due to inadequate and delayed tariff adjustments coupled with increasing
operating expenses arnd financial charges.  Corrective action is nov taken
through  implementation  of  the   recently   approved   second   financial
restructuring, Government compensation as defined in the draft Railway
Convention, and substantial tariff increases (paras. 5.03 to 5.05).
Balance Sheet
5.21     SNTF's balance sheet over the period 1979-86 is given in Annex 7,
Table 3. A sumary follows:
Table 5.3: SNTF - Balance Sheet 1979-86
(DA million)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Current Assets         1000   1164   1322   1510   1688    1783   1893   2022
Net Fixed Assets       3874   3985   4347   5320   7221    9196  11183  14221
TOTAL ASSETS         4874   5149   5669   6830   8909   10979  13076  16243
Current Liabilities    597    666    851   1573   1801    2235   2828   3609
Long Term Debt         2473   2648   2855   3061   3442    3742   3887   4455
Equity and Reserves   1804   1835   1963   2196   3666    5002   6361   8179
TOTAL LïABILITIES   4874   5149   5669   6830   8909   10979  13076  16243
5.22     The main feature in the balance sheet is the substantial increase
in fixed assets, more particularly, for track and related investments; this
heading more than quadrupled between 1981 and 1986, and reflects the heavy
investments made, at Government cost, in the doubling of existing lines and
construction  of  new  lines.   As  mentioned  earlier  fixed  assets  are
registered at historical cost and they are substantially undervalued.  An
estimate  of  the  replacement  value  amounts  to  about  DA  45 billion
(US$9.6 billion), about three times the book value. The balance sheet does
not distinguish between f ixed assets in use and work-in-progress; it was
agreed during negotiations that this shortfall would be corrected as from
1988 on to allow better assessment of depreciation requirements.
5.23     A major weakniess is the high level of receivables, particularly
from commercial debtors, which, by end 1986, equalled - in the books - the
traffic revenue of that year. However, the situation, although serious, is
less drastic than suggested by the accounts.   A review at December 31,
1986, revealed the following position:



- 43 -
DA million
- Receivables from commercial debtors            1167.0
- Receiptu from comercial debtors which
cannot be identified against specific
services rendered1'                             717.3
- Net receivables from comercial debtors          449.7
Action has nov been taken to accelerate reconciliation of payments received
against services rendered  through  itemization  lists attached  to payment
orders to banks.  Nevertheless net receivables still represent about eight
months of freight revenue as compared with a theoretical grace period of 30
days. The reasons for this unsatisfactory record are manifold, namely SNTF
cannot in practice refuse its services to delinquent payera, many institu-
tional changes involving redistribution of responsibilities among railway
users occurred recently with ensuing delays in payment, and penalties for
overdue payments are not strictly applied. In addition, decentralization of
receivables recovery to SNTF's regional units initially delayed payments,
and there is an overall lack of monitoring. Various measures have now been
taken  by  SNTF  to  reduce  progressively  outstanding  receivables  from
commercial debtors to the equivalent of three months of freight revenue,
hence improving its current position. This objective, to be achieved by the
end of FY90, is included in the Loan Documents.
5.24     Inventories are kept at the level of about two years of operational
needs (Table 8); faster turnover, more selective purchases, and elimination
of dead stock could reduce the level of inventories to the equivalent of 18
months of operational needs; this objective is also written into the Action
Plan (Annex 1). Current liabilities are high but they comprise the suspense
accounts dealt with in para. 5.23.   The larger part  (60%) of  the nets'
current liabilities is Bank overdraft which stood, at December 31, 10-6, at
DA 1,750 million, exceeding by far the present annual traffic revenue. The
annual increases in equity reflect essentially the large investments
financed by Goverument; operating deficits are balanced through reduction of
equity.
5.25     The current ratio deteriorated from a safe 1.68 in 1979 to 0.56 in
1986; likewise,  the liquid ratio decreased from 1.24 to 0.43.   Although
these ratios muet be interpreted with caution because of the accounting
practice  described  in  para. 5.23  they  are  an  indication  of  SNTF's
unfavorable cash position. The debt/equity ratio remained at a satisfactory
level throughout the period considered.
5.26     SNTF keeps annual  "Comptes  d'établissement"  which  show,  on one
side, capital investments and increases in inventories, and on the other
side, the sources of financing.  A summary of SNTF's investment financing
1/ Balanced by suspense accounts on liabilities side.
2/ Excluding suspense accounts.



- 44 -
over the period 1979-86 is given in Annex 7, Table 4.  It shows that since
the first financial restructuring of 1978, all infrastructure investments
have  been  financed  by  unreimbursable  State   contributions   (concours
defin-tifs), no external borrowing has been obtained, and BAD and BNA have
been the sole providers of long-term financing as well as bridging credits
(Crédits-Relais) to refinance repayment of external debt.
C. Forecast Financial Performance
5.27     A financial forecast has been prepared in constant terms for the
period  1987-1991.   This  forecast  takes  into  account  the  measures  of
financial restructuring (para. 5.03) as from 1988, as w2ll as adoption of
the pricing, compensation, investment financing and depreciation policies
which are provided for in the Railway Convention (para. 5.05) and the
Government's Letter of Intent (para. 5.18).
5.28     SNTF's forecast  income accounts  for  1987-1991  are  in Annex  7,
Table 5,  together  with  the basic assumptions used.   The forecast  income
account is sunmmarized below:
Table 5.4:  Forecast Income Accounts
(DA billion)
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991
Revenue                             1.5       1.8     2.0      2.2      2.4
Working Expenses                    1.6       1.5      1.5     1.6      1.6
Depreciation                        0.3       0.3     0.3      0.5     0.5
Operating Expenses                  1.9       1.8     1.8      2.1      2.1
Net Operating Revenue               (0.4)      -      0.2      0.1     0.3
Interest                            0.3       0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
Revenue After Interest             (0.7)    (0.2)      -      (0.1)    0.1
5.29     The main features of the forecast income accounts are substantial
and progressive tariff increases amounting by 1991 to 60% of the present
rates and fares and a State operating subsidy covering track maintenance
coats. The accounts also assume: (a) reduction of staff by attrition and by
transfer to INFRAFER; (b) depreciation, based as of 1990, on the replacement
cost of all investments, whether financed by State or SNTF (Annex 7, Table
6); and (c) subsidization of the operating deficits and interest charges in
1987 and 1988, as part of the financial restructuring.  Under the combined
effects  of  these  factors  the  financial  performance  of  SNTF  improves
progressively, as irdicated by the ratios below:
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Working ratio                       109       82      76       69      64
Operating ratio                     128       98      91       94      87
Working ratio (excluding
operating subsidy)                130      101      92       82      75
Operating ratio (excluding
operating subsidy)                153      121     110      111     102



- 45 -
5.30     The forecasts show that, by 1991,  the cost coverage factor by
users vill be about one with working and operating ratios (excluding the
State operating subsidy for track) of 3:4 and 1:1 respectively (para. 5.35).
5.31     Details  of  the  sources  and application of funds are given in
Annex 7, Table 7.  A sury of the cash flow followa:
Table 5.5: Cash Flow
(DA million)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   Total   2
Sources:
Internally generated cash      (129)    318    479    672    832    2171  112
Government - investments       2300    2300   2320   2300   2300  11520)
)  712
- restruc. fin.      694    1847    -        -     -      2541)
Bank overdraft                 1700      -      -        -     -     1700)
)  162
Long-term borrowing             300      300    265    300    315   1480)
Other                             92     165     85    133      15    490   2n
Total              4957    4930   3149   3405   3462  19903  1002
Application:
Investments                    2600    2600   2585   2600   2615  13000   672
Debt service                    527      513    517    626    616   2799   14%
Net current assets shortfall  1586         -      -       -     -    1586)
)  172
Bank overdraft repayment          -    1700       -       -     -    1700)
Other                           174       41     26      39     78    358    22
Total              4887    4854   3128   3265   3309  19442  1002
Balance              70      76      21    140    153    461
5.32     The forecast shows the importance of the Government contributions
(712) as compared with a modest 11% of internally generated cash.  On the
application side the largest share is, as expected, for investments (672).
The cash flow shows an accrued balance of about DA 460 million, a safety
feature which could eventually be used by SNTF to self-finance part of its
rolling stock program.
5.33     SNTF's balance sheet for 1986, as presented and after corrections,
together with the forecast balance sheets 1987-1991 are in Annex 7,
'able 8. A summary follows:



- 46 -
Table 5.6: Forecast Balance Sheet: 1987-96
(DA billion)
-------1986----                        Forecaut
As presented  Corrected    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
As sets
Current Assets           2.0           1.3        1.5   1.3    1.2    1.2    1.2
Net Fixed Assets        14.2          44.8       47.1  49.5   51.8   53.8   55.9
Total Assets            16.2          46.1       48.6  50.8   53.0   55.0   57.1
Liabilities
Current Liabilities      3.6           2.9        1.3   1.1    1.1    0.9    0.8
Long-term Debt           4.4           4.4        6.2   5.2    5.2    5.1    5.0
Equity                   8.2          38.8       41.1  44.5   46.7   49.0   51.3
Total Liabilities       16.2          46.1       48.6  50.8   53.0   55.0   57.1
5.34     The 1986 balance sheet has been corrected by elimination of the
unidentified  commercial  receipts  (DA 717 million)  from  the assets  and
liabilities suspense accounts (see para. 5.23), and by revaluation of fixed
assets as per Annex 7, Table 6. The 1987-91 forecast balance sheets take
into account the results of the corresponding income accounts and cash
flow. The current ratio improves substantially to 1.56 in 1991 as a result
of better operating performance and of the measures associated with the
financial restructuring; the liquid ratio remains somewhat marginal until
1990,  then  corrects  itself  above  1.0  in  1991.   The  debt/equity  ratio
- about 10/90 - reflects the investment policy by which the largest share
of investments - infrastructure - is being financed by non-reimbursable
Government contributions (concours définitifs) which are balanced by equity
increases.
5.35     Subject to implementation of the policies written into the railway
convention and under the assumptions made in paras. 5.27 and 5.33, SNTF's
financial performance is expected to improve progressively and substan-
tially, culminating, in 1991, in achieving working and operating ratios
(excluding subsidy for track costs) of 3:4 and 1:1 respectively. Hovever,
this objective is subject to re-evaluation if so warranted by inflation
and/or the findings and outcome of the National Transport Study financed
under Bank loan No. 2808-AL dated June 24, 1987, particularly with respect
to road user charges (para. 1.15).   During loan negotiations,  assurances
were obtained that SNTF would reach financial equilibrium from FY 1991, and
that the Government would take all measures required to that effect.
Specific financial targets are included in the Project Action Plan
(para. 3.22).
D. Sensitivity
5.36     The sensitivity analysis shows the following results in 1991 when
varying revenue from users and investment costs by 10% and 20%, and
coubining the effects of both parameters.



- 47 -
Revenue       Investment
From Users      Costa      -----Combined---
-10%  -20%      -    -     -10%   -20S   -102   -20S
Oblectives   -    -      +102  +20  +10%   +10%   +202   +202
Vorking Ratio       75       83    94      75    75      83      94     83      94
Operating Ratio   100       113   127    102   103    114    128    114    128
5.37     The  financial  objectives  of  3:4  and  1:1  are  obviously  more
sensitive to tariff adjustments than to investments costs.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations,  assurances vere obtained f rom SNTF on
the following points of particuLar significance:
(a)  an  external  audit  of  SNTF  accounts  would  be  undertaken
through the Commissaire aux Comptes (para. 2.46);
(b)  the  project  would  be  implemented  in line with the Action
Plan, including updating the plan Pnnually in agreement with
the Bank (para. 3.24);
(c) cost accounting consultants would be employed by December 1,
1988 and the proposed cost accounting system be provided to
the  Bank  for  review  and  comment  by  December 1,  1989
(para. 5.06); and
(d) f inancial equilibrium would be reached beginning in 1991
(para. 5.35).
6.02     During negotiations,  confirmation vas obtained from SNTF on the
content  of  the  Project  Action  Plan.   In  particular,  the  Action  Plan
suamiarizes the provisions of the Railway Convention, specifies the
financial targets to be reached in 1991, and defines the terms of
reimbursement by Government to SNTF of infrastructure investments financed
partly by foreign loans.
6.03     Assutrances were obtalned from the Government that it will:
(a) allocate sufficient resources for the rehabilitation and
reneval of about 200 km of track annually (para. 3.23);
(b) present the draft annual railway sector investment budgets to
the Bank, beginning in 1988 (para. 3.23); and
(c) take all the measures required for SNTF to reach financial
equilibrium beginning in 1991 (para. 5.35).
6.04     With the agreements reached on the above, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$143 million to SNTF.
(0082d)



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Plan                                           |



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Pla
ACTIVITY                      PRESENT POSITION                              ACTION TO BE TAKEN                     RESPONSIBILITY/
TINIMG
A. INVESTNENTSIPLANNING
1. 1985-89 Investment         . Priorlty given to rehabilitation of  . Continue to give prtority to                   NT/SNTF/WP
Program                       existins network (about 200 km per         rehabilitation and modernization of       I9;-1990
year).                                    existini network.  Budgetary
allocations of at least DA 900
Defer new investments on new railway    million annually to
routes.                                   rehab1 itatlon/modernization
progran.
Slow down ongoing investments on new . Continuous monitoring of ongoing             SNTF/NT/MP
lines and transfer resources and          programs in terms of costs and            1987-1990
materials to track renewal program:       1mplementation schedules.
-  Ain Touta-MHSila l1ne (150 Km)
will be completed only first 15
Km to Ain Touta cement plan.
-  Defer construction of double
track between El Milla and Jijel
on Randame Jamel - Jijel line
(135 Km).
The core program of railway            . Prf-aration of technical and               SNTF/AT
investments during 1987-89 will           economic feasibillty studies to be        1988-1990
amount to about DA 7.7 billion            prepared for Important conponents
representing about a 30X reduction        of investment plan.
over Initial program. Over 5SO of
investments w1ll be allocated to       . Draft annual budget for railway
rehabilitation and modernization.         investment to be submitted to Bank
during project implementation.
1988 Budget
-  Final version                           6/88
1989 Budget
-  Draft program                          12/88
-  Final version                           3/89
1990 Budget
-  Draft prograb                          12/89
-  Final version                           3/90              '-
o



ACITfIY                        PREÉSENT PM ITION                             ACTION TO BE TAKEN                     RESPONSIBILITY/
TIMING
Creat1on of local capacity for track    Capacity of INFRAFER should not              HT/SNCF
renei*al works (INFRAFER).                exceed three units equivalent to           1989-90
about 120 Km per year.
Start up of rehabilitation between        SNTF
Thenia and El Esnam (80 km)               1988
2. Strengthen Planning            Start up of National Transport Study    Assistance to strengthen planning            SNTF
Capabilitles.                  by HT (financing under Fifth Highway    capacity within SNTF to be provided           1988
Project).                                 under project.
Preparation of 1990-94 Plan in close    SNTF/MT/MP
collaboration with National               1988-90
Transport Study.
Priority given to programming and    . Assistance and training for                   SNTF/MT
planning of track renewal works and       preparation of feasibility studies         1988-90
to preparation of routine                 and design work.
maintenance programs. Need to
prepare technical and economic
feasibility studies and project
designs.
Need for possible replacement of        . Comparative study of continued use         SNTF                        te
electric traction and modernization       of electric traction versus diesel         1988
of eastern mineral line identified.        replacement.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1. Project scope and              Agreement on following composition:
content.
-  Rehabilitation of 88 km of track  . Complete preparation of operational           SNTF
by international tender between        plans for track rehabilitation/            7/88
Ramdane Jamel and Annaba.              renewal program including cost
estimates and implementation
schedule for 1988-90
- Renewal of 91 km of track on
eastern mineral line (El Hadjar-
Bouchegouf-Souk Aharas by
international tender.
-  Renewal of 192 km of track on                                                                           p
Alger-Constantine line (Beni                                                                            ci
Mansour-Setif-El Gourzi) by
INFRAFER/local firms.
O



ACTIVITY                        PRESENT POSITION                                ACTION TO BE TAKEN                       RESPONSIIBILITY/
TIHING
-  Modernizat1on of signalling on           Complete preparation of operations           SNTF
Algiers - El Harrach and                 and 1mplementation plan for                 5/88
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba,                  signalling and teleconnuincations.
improvement of level crossings
and Installation of electric
signals (Annex 1l Table 1).
- Installation of telephones ln
stations on Ramdane Jamel -
Annaba and Then1a - El Gourzi
lines (Annex 1, Table 1).
-  Track maintenance equipment.
(Annex 1. Table 2).
- Two unloaders for phosphate
traffic.
-  Technical assistance and a            . Training needs to take into account           SNTF/JT
second phase of training.                results of first phase under Fifth           1988-1989
Hlghway Project.
Project will be 1mplemented over
three-year period mid 1988-mid 1991
and will represent about 60% of
track rehabil1tation/renewal program
and close to 30% of total 1nvestment
in railway subsector.
2. Preparation of studies       .  Feasibility studies completed for
and designs.                    track rehabilitation/renewal and
under preparation for signalling and
telecommunications components.  ERS
for track rehabilitation/renewal ln
range 18% to 27%.
Deta1led designs available for 88
km of track rehabilitation and 192
km of track renewal.
Agreement to proceed with bidding on .  Call for bids in mid-1988                        SNTF/Bank
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba (88 Km) for          after agreement with Bank                    7/88
retroactive financing.                      on bidding documents.
o



ACTIVITY                      PRESENT POSITION                             ACTION TO BE TAKEN                    RESPONSIBILITY/
TININO
Funds available under Flfth NHghway      Terms of reference to be prepared.        SNTF
Project (about DA Il millon) for                                                  12/87
preparation of designs and bidding
documents for track renewal program. . Complete preparation of design for          SNTF/Bank
Studies wtll 1nclude:                    El Hadjar - Souk Ahras after              12/U
approval of draft contract by Bank.
-  El Hadjar - Souk Ahras 91 km.         Call for btds on El Hadjar - Souk         SNTF
Ahras                                    2/89
-  Biddtng documents for track           Complete bidding documents for            SNTF
materials to be procured under        Bank approval for procurement of          6/88
project.                              track materials for track renewal
program and for equtpment
Inittate International competittve       SNTF
btddtng for track materials              7/88
Technical documents for stgnalltng   . Bank review and call for btds               SNTF
and telecoiuunications program           after Bank approval.                      7/88
prepared by consultants.
Agreement on list of track             . Preparation of technlcal                  SNTF
maintenance equ1pment.                    spectficattons and biddtng               7/88
documents.
Bank review and call for btds after      SNTF/Sank
Bank approval.                           9/88
C. PROOUCTIVITY/OPERATIONS
1.  Operattonal Performance. . Emphasize marketing activtties tn    . Improve qualtty of service by                  1988-1990
order to tncrease traffic and make        1ncreasing efftciency. Rationaltze
effective use of newly acqutred          services by concentrating on bulk
capactty.                                traffie.  Early retirement of old
wagons.
Need to emphastze bulk conmodtty       . Increase use of block trains and
movements.                                1ncrease weight of trains.
. Need to 1mprove productivity.          . Reach objectives shown  n Annex 1.         SNTF
Table 3.                                 I9U- 1990
Action plan prepared to ltmit:        . Establtsh position of senior foreman    SNTF
tn each region to monltor                19U-1989
a) main line diesel locomotive           performance of mechanics and help ln                           oc
breakdown                             diagnosis and repatr of faults of
b) accidents ln stations.                locomotives tn service; intensive
training of maintenance personnel in                          0
depots.                                                       Ih



ACTIVITY                       PRESENT POSITION                              ACTION TO BE TAKEN                      RESPONSIBILITY/
TIMING
Based on current delivery of 1.200   . Reduce turnaround time to 10 days             SNTF
wagons under 1985-89 Plan there will    enabling earlier retirement of                1988-1990
be no additional needs before 1991        old wagons.  Target to be achieved
for renewal or Increase in capacity.    through 1mproving handling
activities, includ1ng provision of
sidings and adequate storage,
introducing new shunting locomotives,
ismproving yard operations and
sharpen1ng of financial 1ncentives
to 1mprove wagon loading/unloading.
Study to be undertaken for                SNTF
establishment of centralized wagon         1988-89
control system.
Based on 400 passenger cars for         . Increase load factors for suburban         SNTF
which delivery w1ll be completed ln       and main l1ne trains.  Give priority    1988 - 90
1987, there will be no additional         to development of suburban services.
needs before 1991.
Improve staff productivity.               Reach objective of 330.000 traffic         SNTF
units per employee in 1990. Program        1988 - 90
to reduce staff together with
program of training and replacement
of staff leaving on ret1rement.
Need to examine viability of            . National Transport Study will              SNTF
specific l1nes and operations and to    analyze low traffic lunes.                    1988 - 90
eliminate uneconomic services.
Progressively eliminate
less-than-car load traffic (less
than 10,000 tons/year).
Procurement of 20 shunting locos        . Procurement of 20 shunting locos 1s        SNTF
and 20 main l1ne locos under 1985-        justified and should be finalized.         1988
89 Plan.                                  Annex 1. Table 4 provides a tentati-
ve justification for 20 main line
locomotives based on demand for dif-
ferent services -suburban main line
passenger, unit train and standard
trains. Growth of passenger and
freight traffic 1s unlikely to
exceed 2.5w per year through 1990.
Need to solve ballast pollution         . Replacement of hopper wagons by            SNTF
problem on mineral line before             280 open wagons.  Unloaders to be         1988                  < t
track renewal.                            provided under project.
a-



ACTIVITY                       PRESENT POSITION                               ACTION TO BE tAKEN                      RESPONSIBILITY/
TIMING
2.  Reorganization.            . Need to strengthen senior management . Gradual introduction of management               SNTF
ln SNTF.  The scoPe of the Director        Information system ln varlous              1988-1989
General's control is too broad with        directorates and units.
12 directorates, 4 regional units
and 3 workshops. New Director
General now increasing delegating
authority for day-to-day
operations.
Need to strengthen planning and         . Redirect resources of Projects              SNTF
project preparation for track              directorate towards preparation of         1988-89
renewal works.                             modernization project in Infra-
structure directorate.
O.  INSTITUTIONAL               .  In the past, the respective                Implementation of the new                  MT/SNTF
1.  Railway Convention            financial responsibilities of State         Railway Convention defining:               1988-1990
and SNTF were not clearly defined
and Government contributions were          1.  Compensation due to SNTF as a
unrelated to operating deficits.           result of constraints imposed by
Government regarding:
New railway convention was approved          - operations on uneconomic lines
by Council of Ministers in                     and services
November 1987.  Government has               - below cost tariffs
issued confirmation that the                 - fare reduction for certain
Convention will be signed shortly.             passengers
- purchase of rolling stock not
warranted by foreseeable traffic
- level crossing costs.
2. Contributions by State of acquisi-
tions, construction, and maintenance
of Infrastructure, and related
investments.
AlthOugh the convention does not
specify the cost components to be
taken into account, it is agreed that
these include:
- working expenses
- depreciation of fixed assets at
replacement cost
aIz
ol



ACTIVITY                      PRESENT POSITION                              ACTION TO BE TAKEN                     RESPONSIBILITY/
TIMING
In reciprocity to the self-imposed        SNTF/NT
oblgations by Government a Plan of       as from FYOS
Action w1ll be prepared annually
listing the operational and finan-
cial objectives to be achieved by
SNTF.
E.  fINANCIAL
1.  *Restructuration Finan-      The recent financial situation of    . Government to cover SNTF's operating    MT
cière".                     SNTF reçuired a major contribution         deficits in 1987 and 1988.                1988-1989
from Government to 1mprove 1ts cash
position and important tariff
adjustments to enhance 1ts operat-
1ng results.
Financial restructuring package
approved by Council of Ministers
ln November 1987.
Followdng measures implemented as
part of 1988 Lot des Finances:
- non-reimbursable cash contri-
bution by Govermnent of DA 1
billion;
-  consolidation by Government of
principal due to BAD & Treasury>
on Dec. 31, 1986, and unpa1d
for an amount of about DA 460
milion.
- loan by Treasury of DA 650
million.
- Government to cover SNTF's
operating deficits in 1987
and 1988.
-  global tariff 1ncrease of 20X
in May 1988.
2.  Cost Accounting.             There Is no comprehensive cost          . The compensation mechanisms to be          SNTF
accountino.                               written 1nto the Railway Convention       as from FY90
required detalled cost accounting
which should be fully operational by
no later than January 1990; it will
be organized with the assistance of       SNTF
consultants to be appointed by not         e/s88 a»
later than October 1. 1988.                                     X
3.  Revaluatien of Fixed       . The itemization of fixed assets 1s   . Completion of itemization, with               SNTF                o
Assets.                      incompleted.                               valuation at
-  hiltorical cost                        12/8U
-  replacement cost                       12/89



hCIiMJiX                       PRESENT POSITION                               ACTION TO SE TAKEN                      RESPONSIBILITY/
TIMING
4.  Receivables                . Commercial rece1vables are too high. .  Faster collection of rece1vables is             SNTF
needed to improve SNTF's cash posi-
tion; by end of the FY commercial
receivables should not exceed:
5 months of annual fre10ht traffic    FY 89
revenue
3 months of annual freight traffic    FY 90
revenue.
5.  Inventories                . They are too high.                        . Closer supervision of the level of          SNTF
Inventories ts needed so as to             as from fY 89
reduce them to 18 months of the
neds of consumable materials.
6.  Presentation of             . Analysis of the balance sheet would         -  Segregation of fixed assets in          SNTF
Balance Sheet                 be facilitated by varlous measures.            operation and work-in-progress.         12/88
-  El1mination from SNTF's balance
sheet of assets related to 94etro
d'Alger and transfer thereof.
-  Same for INFRAFER assets.
7.  Previous financing of    . There Is contradiction between              . About 70X of the Bank Loan was for          MT/HFnment
Infrastructure tnvest-        Government's pol1cy of investment          infrastructure; this portion of the         12/88
ment.                         financing and service by SNTF of            debt service should be reimbursed          and annually                 t
Bank Loan No. 996-AL dated June 10,        by Government to SNTF.                     thereafter.
1974.
8.  External Audit             . Controls carried out by the Ministry . Appointment of "Commissaires aux                 NT/MF
at-charge end other authorities do         Comptes" to SNTF to carry out annual    12/88
not meet satisfactory auditing             external audit as required from
standard.                                  borrowers by the Bank.
9.  Financial Objectives       . With the recent clarification of          . The financtal objectives are:               SNTF/MT
pricing policy and definition of           -  a working ratio (excluding              as from FY91
the respective financial respon-              subsidy for track maintenance.
sibilities of State and SNTF, the             level crossing and training
railway can now formulate clear               costs) of 3:4;
financia' objectives.                      -  an operational ratio (excluding
subsidy for track maintenance,
level crossing and training
costs) of 1:1.
Framework for tariff 1ncreases
(in real termns):
May  1988 - 20X (para E.1)
Jan. 1989 - 10X                                                 na
Jan. 1990 - lOX                                                 ID
Jan. 1991 - 10X OO
O



ACTIVITY                       PRESENT POSITION                              ACTION TO BE TAKEN                     RESPONSIBILITY/
TINIMG
F. TRINIiNG
1.  Development of Human       . Priority given to training.  Tra1n-  . Start up of teaining prograu under             SNTF/MT
Resources.                    lng program for transport sector           Fifth H1ihway Project.  Selection         7/88
tncluding SNTF. is 1ncluded under         of trainhrêg spec!alists and consul-
Fifth Highway Project (approx.            tants for:
DA 23 million).  Selection of              -  5 man-monthF to complete prepara-
consultants for f ist phase of                ration of craining program.
railway training program underway.        -  100 man onths of training specia-
lists for Rou1ba Training Center.
Preparation of 30 man-months of           SNTF/NT
foreign study tours for SNTF.             7/88
January 1987 Study established            Complete preparation of terms of           SNTF/Sank
training needs as follows:                reference for second tranche of            10/88
-  1mprove operations                     training program giving priority to:
-  improve equipment maintenance          -  1nvestment planning and prepara-
-  replace staff leaving on retire-           tion of studies
ment                                   -  equipment maintenance
-  1ncrease training coverage (only       -  track maintenance
3%                                     -  management
- train staff for Rouiba Training
Center.
Training needs 1987-1990                . Program includes:
operations           404                   -  1nstitutional development -
Infrastructure       400                      about 240 man-months of which
equ1puent            444                      100 man-months for cost
Total              1.248                      accounting.
- training - about 360 man-months
Need for training staff                       of training specialists and 110
operations            10                      man-months of foreign study tours.
infrastructure        10
equipment             L                 . Define needs for logistical support        SNTF/HT/Bank
Total                 30                   for technical assistance/training          10/88
effort to be financed under project
Retraining program over 8 months           (administrative staff. vehicles.
operations            86                  teaching materials. etc. for the
infrastructure       120                  Rou1ba Center).
equipment            300
data processing       12
Total                518
O 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



- 60 -
Table 1
ALGLLA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
«COmaO RAILWAY PROJECT
Slanaling and T.lelommunieations:
Firet Tranche Proora 1J/
(DA million without taxis)
A.       Tel&eSmnIcations                                              tore a rooer           Second orlor1tv
koau  fForeign Total   Lccal Foreign Total
(1)    tables
Phst-uned
Thenta - El Gourzi (373 km)                           20        2     22
Annaba - Ramdane Jamul (96 km)                         6        1      7
El Gourzi - Touggourt (418 km)                                                26       4      30
Underground
El Gourzi- Ramdane Jamel (105 km)                     36        6     42
( 1 i)    Telephunes
Stat10ns
Thenia - El Gourzi (29)                                8       30     38
Annaba - Ramdane Jamel (7)                             2        8     10
El Gourzi - Touggourt (25)                                                     5      25      30
Reio1nal Contrgl Centers (4)
Algiers, Constantine, Batna, Biskra                    1        6      7
Aigters - El Harrach Sectlon                           2        4      6
,111)    Ground/train rad1o
Annaba - Ramdane Jamel                                                         3       5       8
Sklkda - Constantine - El Gourzi                                               S       7      12
El Gourzi - Touggourt                                                          9      24      33'
200 locomotives                                                                0.5     5.5    6
(lv)    Clocks and PA Svstems
Thenla - El Gourzi                                                             O.5     3.5    4
Annaba - Ramdane Jamel                                                         0.1     0.9    1
El Gourzt - Touggourt                                                          0.5     4.5    5
El Gourzi - Ramdane Jamel                            __L                               2...L3Z,7  __1
Sub-total           75      57    132      50       82    132
6.       Safetv Eoutiment
''-)    Elock syste
Stnae ltne tokenless block on Annaba - R. Jamel    1           4       5
Color-litht automatic block                            4       12     16
on Algiers - El Harrach
Centralized Traffic Control (CTC)                                              3       5       8
Annaba - Ramdane Jamel - Skikda
(11)    Turnout Control Boxes
Annaba - Ramdane Jamel - Skikda (7)                    7       18     25
Alger - El Harrach (4)                                 3        9     12
(ttt)    Level Crossinas.
Automattc barriers (60)                                4       21     25
(Iv)    color-l_ ght stgnals                                    4      12     16      - 
Sub-total                  23       76     99       3               8 8
C.       Other Facilities
(t)    Maintenance center                                     5        3      8
Building and equipment
(ti)    Other suDoOrt buildines                                                       16       -      16
(ttt)    Vehicles and tools                                     j        ^       5     _
Sub-total                   7       13     16      16      -       16
Grand Total                      124     140    244      69       87    156
Note: J/ Approved by Government in November 1985; thls First Tranche has been estimated by SNTF at
DA 400 million without taxes. Fiscal taxes are estimated at DA 60 million or SX.



- 61 -
AUEX 1
Table 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECGND RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Routine Maintenance EouimTunt
Cost (DA mililon)
(t>   Track Tamina  Machines                                Foraifn      Local         Total
4 light track taping machines                           2.0        14.4          16.4
(11)   Rail mounted Egu1pment and
Maintenance Troll1es
20 units (208 HP) with crane                             3.9        28.6         32.5
20 units (208 HP) with backhoe                           3.3        24.2         27.5
20 units (170 HP) for gang only                          2.7        19.8         22.5
l trolley for structures inspection                     0.2         1.7          1.9
2 tower wagons for catenary maintenance                 0.5         3.3          3.8
1 trolley for track ride control                        0.3         2.3          2.6
Weed-killno machine
1 high output unit                                       0.4         2.8           3.2
Bush Clearina Machine
4 units                                                  1.6       11.9          13.5
Locomotive for Engineering Trains
8 units (800 HP)                                        42         30 .9        350
Sub-total              17.1      125.4         142.5
(11i)  Tools and Machinerv                                       3.2        12.6         15.8
(1v)   Steel Sleeper Reconditioning Plant                        0.8         3.2          4.0
<v)   Handling eguiament
2 gantries (10 tons)                                    1.2         4.6          5.8
3 road crane trucks                                     0.7         3.0           3.7
14 fork lift trucks (6-8 tons)                          1L2          4.6           5 a
Li        12 2153IL
Total                 26.2       167.8         194.0
(at 1987 current pr1ces)



- 62 -                                   UNELX l
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Performnce Obiact1vas
1987 - 1990
--------Actuals ---------       ------------ Object1ves ------------
lmi!       lm        1lm8       1987       lm         lm         lm
Lactive Main L1ne
Diesel/Passenger    Availability X              91         91         90.5       90         90         90         90
a Fre1ght
Utilization km/day        294       290        291        295        297        296        300
Rel1ability k./failure  33.009    34,251    25,913    30.000    45.000    50,000    52.000
Electric/Fre1ght    Avallabllity X              80         77         75.6       75         75         75         75
Mineral Line
Utilization km/day        112        120       120        120        120        120        120
Rel1abilty km/fa1lure   3.684        3.582     3,507      3,500      3.500      3.500      3.S00
Shunters             Avallabilty X             66         76.3       74.5       75         76         77         77
Product1vlty Wagons/Loco. day   20           20         20         20         22         24        '25
Rallcars             Avallabilty X             87         85         88         88         88         88         88
Ut1lization km/day        215       300        311        350        350        350        350
Rel1ability km/fallure  38.325    23.523    24.940    40,000    40.000    40.000    40.000
Narrow Gauge Main
Linae Locomotives  Availability X             92         93         94         95         96         97        97
Average Load per
Loaded Wagon             41         41         42         42         42.5       43         43
Turnround                  12         13        13         13         12         10          9
Wagon km/wagon day         37    - to be determined -
Cgaches              Avallability X             85         87         89         90         92         92         92
Occupation ratio X
Suburban                                        80         80         80         80         85
Ma1nline                                        60         62         65         68         70
Overall                                         65         66         67         69         71
Accidents         Dera1iments. Collisions
per million train
kilometer                    SO         60          n.a.     45         40         25         20
(of wh1ch online)           (13)       (24)                 (12)       (10)        (6)        (5)
Staff Productivity   Traffic Units
per employee (000)    232         260        257        290        30:        315        330



- 63 -                             &MMIX   -table4
Page l of 3
ALCERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEC£D RAILWAY PROJECT
LLoctlv. Haulajo  Stat1st1es 119851. peoloyrnt and Reauir_nt
1. £nain- Kilg«ters by Outies
Assisting
Train Shunting
Trains    Ltght Running    Shunt1ng    lLal 
ka            km             km          km
Standard Gauge
Electrlc Traction       959,883       174,693        49.783    1.184,359      a
Diesel Traction      11f542..24    1.309J.27        920.048   13773Z80I     92
12.503,707    1.484,600       969.831   14.957.158   100
Ratio percent            84            10              6          100
Narrow Gauge
Diesel Traction       1,355.401    1.019,954        203.066      2.576,42
Ratio percent            53            39              8           100
2. Gross Ton Kloemeters Hauled bv Ser1gs of Locomotives (millions)
Avalla-     No.                                              GTKM per
Engine                  bility    Availa-                                           Avallable
Sarles    il ks           tble                 Pass.    Frt.      Other    Total       Locoa
Standard Gauge
Diesel
a'                  GM     3300    93      88.4         82        846.5   A345.5      39.9   5231.9       63.80
b                   GM     2500    24      96.0         23        834.2    197.7       3.3   1035.2       45.00
c.                  GE     2000    25      91.5         23         14.6    223.7      20.8    259.1        11.22
d.                  GM      1100     5     93            4.7       -          1.6       -        1.6        0.34
Sub-total          1695.3   4768.5      64.0   6527.8        38.69
Ratio percent                                                      26       73         1       100
Standard Gauce Electric
e.                 LEW     3000    25      80           20        0.1   1055.9        _6   1057.6         s2.aa
Total Standard Gauge                                             1695.4   5824.4      65.6   7584.4
Narrow Gauge
f.                  GM      1100    25                              -      664.3       0.1    664.4       28.6
3. Average Train Load (trali1no tons)
Tracto1n                  Pass,         Frat.
Standard Gauae
Diesel                     253           800
Electric                   283          1187
Average                    254           884
Narrow Gauga Diesel                      -           490



- 64 -
ANNEX 1 - Table 4
Page 2 of 3
4. Main L1ne Locauotive Distribution bv Services
Diesel Passenger 1696  X 10o' -   z 63 at 85X availabl1ity             74
2S4 X 106 X 103
Diesel Fretght 4768 X 10 '_           = 56 at 85% availability         66
800 X 106 X 103
Electrlc Frelght 1055 X l10 _           = 16 at 65% ava1labtl1ty   = 25
1187 X 54.75 X 103
Locomotives ln pusher/departmental service                                7
Total     Standard Gauge                                          172
Narrow Gauge    Passenger                                               8
Freight                                              -M
Total Fleet                                                    205
5.  Locomotives Allocated for Conmercial Transport of Construction Mater1als
No. of
Region       Locomotives      HP      Da11v Period    Work/Contractor
Constantine          l       3300        0600-1400        Deparmental service
1       3300        0700-1600        M'Sila Construction
1       3300        0400-1600        Ain Yagoud (Renewal)
l       3300        0600-1500        Pafra (RVB)
1       3300        0700-1500        (Doubling) COGEFAR
1        3300        0400-2000       Telergam (RVB) INFRAFER
6
Oran                 1       3300        0600-1400        Pk 397-415 (Renewal)
l       3300        0600-1400        Sidi A1, Bayoub
(Ballast)
2000        0600-1500       El Amria (RVB)
3
Algiers              1       3300        0800-2130        El Achir Tunnel EMROS
3300        0800-1730       (RVB) - INFRAFER
I       3300         1100-1600       Doubling GEA
3
Souk Ahras          i        3300        0800-1600        Ain Afra (RVB)
Total Loco
motives                        =       113 >,ours datll  = 7 locomotives
(effective)



- 65              ANNEX l - Table 4
Page 3 of 3
6.  Distribution of Shunt1na Lacamotives
--------------Region----__-____-__-___
t_       Year        hg.    Soukh  Ahras   Constantine   Algiers   Oran
2000      1977/78    25            8            10                    7
1100      1977         S           -             -            3       2
650      1971         9           -             5                    4
650      1972         9           -                          8       l
650      1976        -à           -            -            A        j
Total                                        j15
Tentative Estimate of Main Locomotive Requirements 1990 Standard Gauce
a.  Replacement                                    2
b.  Freight services (3% growth)
1i5  X 106 (ntkml X 2 X 0.03                   2
63.8 X 106 X 0.85
c.  Departmental services (additional)             4
d. Passenger services
Suburban: 40 additional
Coaches * 10 coaches/loco. average on line   4
e.  Main Line                                      8
New services 1-Algiers/Oran  1 Nos
I - Oran Magnia               2  -
1 - Constantine Touggourt    2  -
I - Algiers-Bejia             1  -
2 - Algiers-Annaba            2  -
Total                                20



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
?                                  Railvay Investment Program 1985-89
1.       The core railway investment program during the 1985-89 plan is
expected to amount to just over DA 13 billion (US$2.7 billion), represen-
ting about a 28% reduction over the initial plan target.  Emphasis is now
being given to track rehabilitation and renewal as well as the completion
of ongoing modernization projects, these investments accounting for over
50Z of the expected expenditures during the three-year period 1987-89.
Details of the investment program including actual expenditures for 1985
and 1986 are shown in Table 1 of this Annex. The following susmmarizes the
content of the investment program.
New lines
2.       About  DA  2.4 billion  (US$510 million),  or  about  30%  of  the
remaining program, is expected to be allocated to the ongoing construction
of new lines.   This program includes the completion of the  Saida  spur
(25 km) and the Beni Saf - Ain Temouchent line (25 km). However, construc-
tion of the two major ongoing new projects, the Ramdane Jamel - Jijel line
(137 km) and the Ain Touta - M'Sila line (150 km) on the Hauts Plateaux,
willi be implemented at a slower rate and the scope of the projects modified
in order to provide the necessary resources for a stepped-up track rehabi-
litation and renewal program.  A proposed double tracking of part of the
Ramdane Jamel - Jijel line between Jijel and El Milia (50 km) has now been
deferred. In addition, only the first 15 km of the Ain Touta - M'Sila line
vill be completed at this stage, linking the main rail network with the new
Ain Touta cement plant.
Modernization
3.       Doubling track between Ramdane Jamel and El Gourzi  (125 km) and
between El Harrach and Thenia (35 km) as well as modernization of lines in
the Annaba - El Hadjar area have now been opened for traffic or are on the
verge of  completion.   The amounts  allocated in the plan, namely about
DA 1.5 billion (US$320 million), represent final settlement payments.
Track Rehabilitation and Renewal
4.       New  project  outlays  are  foeussed  primarily  on  infrastructure
rehabilitation repairs and renewal which will absorb about DA 2.3 billion
(US$490 million) during the three-year period 1987-89.  Track rehabilita-
tion, involving the replacement of track and ballast on an improved
substructure, will cover 168 km on the main line, namely between Ramdane



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Jamel and Annaba (88 km) and between Thenia and El-Esnam (80 km) on the
Algiers-Constantine  line.   The main  part  of  the  track  renewal program
covers about 280 km, namely about 90 km between El Hadjar and Souk Ahras on
the mineral line and about 190 km between Beni Mansour, Setif and El Gourzi
on the Algiers - Constantine route.
Signalling
5.       Signalling improvements will, in principle, upgrade the signalling
and train movement systems to modern standards of safety and reliability.
The projects included are:   tokenless block between Annaba-Ramdane Djamel
(DA 5 million);   double   line   automatic   block   El   Harrach-Algiers
(DA 16 million);    Tumout   control   boxes   at   stations   on   sections
Annaba-Ramdane Djamel-Skikda and El Harrach-Algiers (DA 37 million); level
crossings with automatic barriers and warning devices (DA 25 million); and
replacement of semaphores by color light signals (DA 16 million).  These
proposals which are acceptable, along with another DA 3 million for
structural  works,  total  DA 102  m;!llion  (US$22 million).   In  addition,
centralized traffic control (CTC) has been considered for Annaba-Ramdane
Jamel, with the control centre at Constantine at a cost of DA 8 million
(US$1.7 million). However, in view of the fact that considerable relief in
both line capacity and station operations will be afforded by the installa-
tion, already proposed, of cabin-operated signals and tokenless block
working, the present and future anticipated traffic density does not
warrant the adoetion of CTC on the Annaba - Ramdane Jamel section.
Telecommunications.
6.       The objective is to install dependable communications both  for
train operations, operational control, data transmission and adminis-
tration. Open wire land lines are proposed to be replaced by cable over
the entire 564 km of the Grande Rocade between Thenia-El Gourzi-Ramdane
Jamel-Annaba. The cable will be post-supported throughout except between
El Gourzi and Ramdane Jamel where it will be laid underground. The project
cost is estimated at DA 71 million (US$15 million). All the 37 stations on
this route will also be equipped with modern telephone equipment at a cost
of DA 48 million (US$10 million). Similarly modern train control equipment
is to be installed at Constantine, Algiers, Batna and Biskra and line
equipment on the Algiers-El Harrach double line at a total cost of
DA 13 million   (US$2.8 million).    Miscellaneous   equipment   for   time
synchronization on the main cabled route will require DA 13 million
(US$2.8 million).   Along with the essential buildings and civil works of
DA 7 million (US$1.5 million), the cost of these proposals aggregate
DA 145 million  (US$31 milion).   In addition,  the SNTF has proposals  for
cabling and telephone equipment on the secondary El Gourzi - Touggourt
branch line and ground train radio, covering the routes Skikda -
Constantine - El Gourzi-Touggourt and Ramdane Jamel - Annaba, with
equipment for 200 locomotives. The investments are premature and will not
be implemented in the near future.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
Tunnels and Bridges
7.       Tunnel and bridge repairs are curently wÂderway but progresa has
fallen behind schedule.  Repair work is currently underway on two tunnels
on the Algiers - Constantine route, namely at El Achir (2,260 meters at
km 220.220) and the daylighting of a 75 meters tunnel at km 113. The total
cost is estimated at DA 53 million (US$11.3 million). A feasibility study
for a new 5,000 meter tunnel at El Achir, together with track realignment,
is currently underway. Other tunnels requiring rehabilitation as well as
the planned program of bridge repair is shown in Table 2 of this Annex.
Track Maintenance Equipment
8.       Although  SNTF  recently acquired  a  substantial  amount of track
maintenance equipment, this has now been trinsferred to INFRAFER for the
track renewal program.  Additional equipment w.ll now be procured with a
view to establishing a capacity for routine track maintenance.  This will
include four light track tamping machines, some 70 items of rail-mounted
equipment, eight shunting locomo'ives as well as small machinery and power
tools. Details are given in Anne 5.
Workshops/Tools
9.       In the past wagon maintenance has not been equal to the standards
of locomotive maintenance because of lack of capacity in the workshop and
line installations.  Workshop space has been cramped and mere replacement
of old by modern machines has not contributed effectively to either better
quality or quantity of overhaul output.  Similarly, lineside maintenance
and inspection depots have lacked both adequate handling and lifting
equipment and siding tracks for scheduled maintenance of rolling stock.
Moreover a part of the basic facilities has been tied up in repair to
accident damage wagons. Two schemes to remedy this situation are currently
underway:
10.      Scheme (a) launched in 1983, was a seven-year master plan for the
remodelling and extension of the major workshops at Hussein Dey, Sidi Bel
Abbes and Mohammadia, and the major line depots of Mohammadia, Blida, Agha
and Oran.   Included also was some equipment for the Annaba wagon shop and
the  Constantine  bogie  shop.   lriginally  estimated  at  DA 638 million
(US$136 million),   the  final  çost  is  likely  to  be  DA 780 million
(US$166 million) inclusive of taxes.  Project cost distribution percentage-
vise is roughly workshop structure, trackage, lighting, electricity,
compressed air and equipment - 50%: Machine Tools and associated equipment
15%: Erection and installation 20%: Detailed Engineering 15%.
11.      Scheme (b) concerns mainly the lineside maintenance points where
primary level schedule inspection and attention is given to wagons. These
points also handle minor repairs to accident damaged wagons or render them
f it  to  run  to depots  or workshops.   The  total  cost  is  estimated  at
DA 86 million (US$18.3 million).



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Rolling Stock
12.      Wagon orders vere placed in three tranches between 1982-85: 1,500
(DA 450 million - all replacement): 1,900 (DA 700 million including take
over 528 user wagons): 1,200 (DA 556 million including 700 for replace-
ment).   400 coaches  (100 suburban,  250 mainline,  50 miscellaneous) were
ordered in France in 1985.   All rolling stock is currently under final
delivery and no further procurement will be made at least for the next four
or five years.
Locomotives
13.      SNTF is currently marginally short of main line locomotives and
does   need   more   shunters,   particularly   for   its   siding-connected
services1'.   SNTF  does  not  maintain  statistics  of  average  numbers  of
locomotives  deployed  on  passenger  and  freight  services,  but  a  rough
estimate shows that of the fleet of 205 locomotives in 1986, the allocation
to services was roughly: 123 on freight duty and 82 on passenger trains,
of which 26 were exclusively dedicated to suburban services.  The freight
duty locomotives include 7-2000/1100 HP units used in pusher services and
for ballast and engineering trains. In the current year the latter demands
are  not being  met  adequately.   Against  INFRAFER's  requirement  of  six
locomotives (low horsepower shunters), only three have been provided on an
average in the first half of 1987. The transport of ballast and relaying
materials (rails, sleeper plant or main stockyards to works site subdepots,
for INFRAFER or works contractors (doubling, relaying) is effected as
normal commercial service by allocating main line locomotives daily for
specified  periods.   So  far  SNTF  has  coped  with  such  demands  without
substantial transit delays, but the delay factor will worsen if motive
power availability is not enhanced.
14.      The investment program has a provision for acquisition in the next
three years of 20 shunters.  The shunters are fully justified for normal
commercial duties as well as the ancillary requirements of the works
program. The proposal is to acquire 650 HP units, ten for standard gauge
and ten for dual-gauge.   It is considered, however, that half the total
number (10 units) should be of a higher horsepower in the 1500-2000 range.
The distribution of motive power on shunting duties is shown in Annex 1,
Table 4.
1/   A September 1985 analysis for 1990 traffic level of 16.5 million tons
originating (75 trains/daily equivalent) and 234 passenger trains both
ways daily, places the mainline locomotive requirements at 65 in
addition to a 1990 existing fleet of 145 locomotives (116 available
daily in use). A similar analysis set the shunter requirement at 50
units.



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
15. SNTF also proposes to procure 20 main line locomotives. A tentative
justification and deployment has been prepared but this requires review and
elaboration vith regard to the current situation,1' and a lover traffic
growth  forecast  for  1990.   A  tentative  estimate  of  requirements  and
deployment is in Annex 1, Table 4.  Introduction of any new main  line
passenger services on the Grande Rocade would appear to be a dubious
proposition, particularly on the Algiers - Constantine - Annaba route,
until  the  track  rehabilitation  works  are  completed.   Moreover,  there
appears to be scope for improving the occupation ratio of the present main
line passenger services which is stated to be 60S. Locomotive requirements
vould not be more than 12 if no new main line passenger services are
introduced and 17 if only the new services on the Algiers - Annaba route
are eliminated.
Studies
16. A feasibility and engineering study is currently being undertaken for
the eventual replacement of the El Achir tunnel, along vith the easing of
present severe gradients and curves. Other studies include the relocation
of the present railway station in Algiers and a modernization study of the
eastern mineral line. The Fifth Highway Project is also providing funding
for track rehabilitation and renewal studies.  The proposed project will
include studies for cost accounting and tariffs and for the establishment
of a centralized wagon control system.
1/   One diesel locomotive  and  one electric  locomotive,  damaged beyond
repair in a collision, were scrapped in 1987.  (In all 5 locomotives
were damaged in accidents in 1986).   2 railcar units and 7 narrow
gauge locomotives - 6 mainline (1973) and one shunter (1951) - were
also retired in 1987.



- 71 -
JllUEX 2
Table 1
ALGERA
STAFF APPRASAL RtPORT
SEC0ON RAILWAY PROJECT
Cor& Ral1way !nvestent Proara: 190-89
Examfditurel'
Actual      Planned        Total
19a M - 86    1987  - 89    l uS - 89
-------------DA million------------
A. NMM Lnes
Aln Touta - M'Sila (lS0 km)                               229          300           529
Sent Saf - Ain Touchent (25 km)                           144          500           644
Ramdane Jamel - Jijel (137 km)                          1.365        1.600         2.965
Salda spur (25 km)                                         82          -82
Sub-total                    1.820         2.400        4.220
B. Modernizatlon
Ramdane Jamel - El Gourzi (125 km)                        456          -             456
llne doubling
El Harrach - Then1a (35 km)                              685           695         1.380
line doubl1ng
Annaba - El Hadjar                                        174          545           719
Bridges and tunnels                                        74          282           356
Sub-total                    1.389         1.522        2.911
C. Track Rehabiltation/Renewals
Renewal 2nd program (261 km)                              336          764         1,100
Renewal 3rd program (358 km)                              -          1.200         1.200
Renewal 4th program (100 km)                              -          __0           __0
Sub-total                      336         2.264        2,600
D. other
Slgnalllng/Telecoomunicatlons                             -            200           200
Track Maintenance Equipment                               200          100           300
Track Material                                             49           18            67
Workshops                                                 199          300           499
Rolling Stock
Passenger coaches                                      669           464           953
Freight cars                                           537           310           847
Locomotives                                               -            276           276
Tools                                                     207          125           332
Studles                                                   133        __0             23
Sub-total                    1.994         1,893        3.887
Total                                                  5.539         8.079        13,438
Source: SNTF and mission est1mates



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Tunnel and Bridge Rehabilitation Program
A. Tunnel Rehabilitation Program
a) Ongoing work
The El Achir 2,260 meter tunnel at Km 220.220 on the Algiers -
Constantine line and the daylighting of a 75 m. tunnel at Km 113 on the
same are currently being repaired at a cost of about DA 53 million.
b) Other tunnels requiring rehabilitation:
-    the Naciria 72 meter long tunnel at km 28.010 on Thenia-Tizi
Ouzo line, estimated to cost DA 12 million;
-    the Baazir 437.5 meter long tunnel on the Blida-Djelfa narrow
gauge line (estimated cost DA 54 million);
-    the Ouled Dhia 97 meter long tunnel on the Annaba-Ghardimaou
(Tunisian border) section (cost DA 22 million);
-    another 26 tunnels have been surveyed by ENROS and the cost
of rehabilitation estimated at DA 60 million, inclusive of
detail studies, drainage and conservation works.
B. Bridges
Some bridges on the mineral lines, the Grande Rocade and the
Thenia-Tizi Ouzou lines, for which studies have been completed, require
heavy repairs or rebuilding. The total costs have been estimated at around
DA 150 million as follows:
Estimated Cost
Briege Rehabil i tat ion   ---million----
Line            No.   Total Length(m)       DA        US$    Contractors
Algier-Constantine    26         590            100.0       19.6     SAPTA
Annaba-R. Jamel         3         88              5.0        1.0     SAPTA
B. Mansoor-Bejaia       2         40              -          -       INFRAFER
Annaba-S. Ahras -
Ghardimaou             8        105              4.0        0.8        -
Algiers-Oran           10        100             24.5        4.8     INFRAFER
SONATRAM
Senia -
Ain Temouchent        5        100             12.0        2.4     SEROR
Blida-Djelfa            1         15              3.0        0.6     INFRAFER
Total            49       1,038            148.5      29.2



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Human Resources Planning & Development
I. Personnel Management
1.       The  Director  of  Huiman  Resources  manages  personnel  which  is
organized under him in four functional departments -- Personnel Management,
Payroll/Remuneration, Recruitment/Promotion and Rules and Regulations. The
Medical Department is also an adjunct of this Directorate. The Budget and
Budgetary   Control   is,   however,   handled   by   the   Directorate   of
Administration,  a  dichtomy not conducive  to efficiency.   Moreover,  the
departments within the Directorates function disparately; in consequence
the subunits also work in such narrow compartments that coordination for
decision-making requires top level intervention even in minor matters.
Manpower planning and control is not practiced in a continuous, meaningful
fashion and as a result it is prone to ad hoc decision-making not always in
the long term interest of the organization. However, in this regard, the
parastatals in general are subordinate to Government policy decisions and
regulations which do limit their scope for manoeuvre.  Government decrees
on award of permanent status to seasonal permanent way labor is a case in
point.  Nevertheless, in the changing conditions of manpower and technology
the railways face, a more dynamic system needs to be developed in the
management,  training and deployment of staff.  The new Government policy
which now emphasizes autonomy of the public enterprises should help to
improve this situation.
2.       Certain characteristics of the SNTF workforce which have an impact
on future personnel planning and organization need to be highlighted
(Annex 3, Tables 1-3):
(a)  The   percentage   of   professionals   (managers,   engineers,
technicians) is as low as 3.9% versus a norm of around 7%.
Unless this is strengthened with suitably qualified and
experienced staff, efficiency is bound to suffer.
(b)  A   large  percentage  of  professionals   and   middle-level
technicians are nearing retirement (55) age, 23% being more
than 50 years old. Replacements need to be planned from now
on, particularly as the chances of filling the gap by
promotion of senior and experienced staff in the grades below
are ruled out because here again the age groups are in the
higher bracket.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
(c)  A  sizeable  number  of  professional   staff   lack  higher
educational qualifications due to the earlier policy of
encouraging  promotion  from  the  ranks.   One consequence of
this has been that graduates, recruited after direct entry
was permitted, have faced serious problems of integration.
Recruitment needs to be weighted in favor of graduates, on
the one hand, and, on the other, the selectioi system and
higher professional training of prospective promoters needs
to be redefined.
3.       The training function is organizeci in a separate Directorate but
it lacks a systematically evolved policy, planning and evaluation, purpose-
fully oriented to the railways' long term needs.  A study is in hand to
merge this Directorate with Personnel Administration and a reorganisation
expected to take place early in the project period.
II. Training
4.       SNTF's in-house training system, organized at 14 different centers
spread over the railway (Annex 3, Table 3), covers only the rank and file
staff and the supervisory/foremen levels of, basically, the three principal
operational departments - Operations, Civil Engineering and Traction and
Rolling  Stock  Maintenance.   Training  of  long duration  (2-3 years)  is
imparted on initial recruitment followed, at appropriate intervals during
the service, by short refresher courses (three to six weeks) for grade
promotion trade tests or examinations. Upward mobility is built into the
promotional structure, including induction of foremen into the higher
professional cadres, where direct recruitment, now usually of University
graduates,  is  a  comparatively  recent  innovation.   Initial  recruitment
training is a sandwich of "on-the-job" practical associative work and
theoretical classroom instruction.   For departments, other than the three
principal operational ones, the recruit receives only "on the job" task
exposure under the intermittent guidance of a training assistant.  In the
last five years or so, training center throughputs have averaged annually:
1,443 personnel (248 foremen) through long duration courses (initial
recruitment and professional upgrading): and 1,350 personnel (409 foremen)
through  short  duration  refresher  and  promotional  test  courses.   These
capacities are considered adequate for the next five years or more.  The
centers would need, however, some replacement and improved teaching aids
and materials for which a provision of US$3 million in foreign exchange has
been made in the project. The "on-the-job" system of training, applicable
to many categories in operations and commercial working and departments
other than the three operational ones, requires to be reviewed towards
planning  an  improved  system.   Owing  to  the  changing  technology  and
competitive environment of the railway enterprise, an expert review of the
courses and curricula appears necessary.
5.       For  the  professional  cadre  (managers,  engineers,  technicians)
training in the Railway industry as such is not systematically organized -



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
a lacuna proposed to be remedied by the setting up of a Superior Railway
Technical Institute at Rouiba.  At present, on recruitment the graduates
move through various facets of their assigned departments' activities for
29 months before placement in a working  post.   To  the maximum  extent
feasible, a course of reasonable duration on overseas railway is also
sandwiched in this period.  Subsequently, during the service career,  the
professional is from to time to time put through proficiency seminars and
workshops of Algeria's national institutes or organized "in house" by the
SNTF.   Annually,  about  70 professionals  participate  in these sessions.
These exposures, which are considered important for grade promotion tests,
are supplemented, but on a very limited scale, by training in overseas
railway establishments as well as in specialised equipment suppliers work.
In the last five years, the numbers trained overseas have averaged about 30
staff annually.
6.       The Railway Technical Institute is proposed to be organized in the
project period for the initial recruitment and subsequent career develop-
ment stages of the professional cadre.   The  objective  is  to establish
systematic training in Railway Technology, namely in Operations, Civil
Engineering & Signalling and Telecommunications and in Traction and Rolling
Stock Maintenance.   The scheme provides for (a) equipping the building,
already available in Rouiba, with working models, modern teaching aids and
didactic material (cost approximately US$ 2 million) and (b) 168 man-months
of expatriate technical assistance for training of (i) a faculty of 60
instructors, (ii) throughput of 1,736 profe, -onals (716 operations, 600
infrastructure, 420 traction and rolling stock) in the 1988-91 period.
Additionally, the technical assistance will draw up a detailed plan for
initial training and the subsequent training requirements of 1990/2000 and
2000/2010 along with an action plan for institutionalizing the Professional
Cadre Training System of SNTF.  The scheme is expected to cost a total of
US$4 million and funding is provided from the Fifth Highway Project.
7.       The  proposed  Project  provides  710  man-months  of  consultancy
services and 110 man-months of overseas training of SNTF personnel:  the
total cost, including a supply of teaching aids and equipment, is estimated
at US$15 million, of which the foreign exchange content is US$12 million as
indicated  in Annex  3,  Table  4.   Terms  of Reference for the technical
assistance, consultancy services and the criteria for selection of SNTF
staff for overseas training will be agreed with the Bank. A resume of the
technical assistance and training component is given below:
8.       Cost Accounting Study/Implementation.   This is a scheme to study
and install a modern accounting system which will enable SNTF to cost and
analyse its product more meaningfully for tariff fixation, accurate
valuation of Government imposed services for compensation claims and
generally for management accounting.
9.       Planning.  The objective is to strengthen and develop competence
in project evaluation and investment analysis so as to provide management



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
vith more refined and informed data for decision-making as well as long
term planning of SNTF's development in a growing competitive environment.
The experts provided will also assist the National Transport Study of the
Ministry of Transport.  The Directorate of Proj-cts, a Civil  Engineering
function, is proposed to be reorganized into a parastatal similar to
INFRAFER and its scope expanded to cover railway engineering in general.
This unit will provide/develop specifications and standards for adoption by
SNTF, engineer and manage projects and carry out surveys and designs as
required.  The staff for this unit will have to be carefully selected and
trained and an extensive documentation service built up to assist the unit
to fulfill its role effectively.  Provision is also made for a preliminary
study for a centralized wagon control system.
10.      Personnel  Administration/Training  Management.   To  review  and
strengthen the organization of these functions and devise procedures and
methods  of  handling   the   Directorates'   business   more   efficiently,
particularly in the areas of manpower planning, training and redeployment.
11.      Computers.  To assist in the setting up of the pilot schemes for
workshop production planning and costing and the passenger ticket system in
the Algiers region.
12.      SNTF Training Centers.  Though capaci'-y and facilities are deemed
to be adequate for the present, the consultancy services will be utilized
to review the system of training, suggest improvements and help provide
better teaching aids and equipment (for which a separate provision has been
made) as also revise curricula and identify new training areas, especially
concerning staff of departments who are at present trained on the job on
recruitment.
13.      Miscellaneous.  This provision has been retained to provide, among
other items, training for track maintenance staff in the upkeep and
operation of trackwork machines and workshop organization skills and
management. The exact requirements will be identified after the quantum of
training  that  equipment  suppliers can offer is precisely known.   Other
contingencies in the training program will also be taken care of by this
reserve .



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Staff Strength and Distribution - January 1, 1987
Table 1: Distribution of Main Staff Functions
Function                           Subgroup No.    Group Total No.
Operations
Movements & Commercial                           4,108              5,332
Locomotive Drivers and Depot Maintenance         1,224
Motive Power & Rolling Stocks Maintenance                             4,489
Repair & Maintenance                             4,301
Stores and procurement                             188
Infrastructure Maintenance                                            6,236
Maintenance & Renewals                           5,780
Projects                                           456
General Administration                                                2,181
Headquarters                                       944
Regions                                          1,237
Grand Total    18,238



-78 -
Tables 2 & 3
S;jL5SRUL W Y PROJECT
Table 2.  tmsne1 Distribution hy A9.
Ale             Managertal &       Supervlsors &      Skilled/Unskllled        Total
Professional          Foremen              Labor
SS yvtrs & +                  42                  427                 1118                1587
50 to 54 years                97                  829                 1229                2155
45 to 49 years                142                1006                 1350                2498
40 to 44 years                 98                 775                 1200                2073
35 to 39 years                87                  872                 2216                3175
30 to 34 years               112                  986                 2714                3812
25 to ~9 years                33                  646                 2405                3084
20 to 24 years                _                   1                    648                 761
Total               611               SJ654               12 8ao             1]  145
Source: SNTF
Table 3. *sTF Exlstlng Training Centres
Centre      Locat1on                      ---r--- Course --------    Staff
Tvne            Duratnon    Grade
1.  Locomotlves   Algiers          Drivers    Initial           6 months    Recruitment
Oran                       Refresher          1 week      2 years service
Mohammdla
Souk Ahras
2.  Centre         Bouzarra        Foremen    Train Con-         10 weeks    Recrultment
trollers
Traction/         4-6 months
Roll1ng Stock
Civil             N.A.
Engineering
3.  Apprentice    Alglers         Workers    Diesel              3 years     Recruitment
Oran                       Loco./Mechan.                  (unskilled)
Sidi Mabrouk
4.  Apprentlce    Algiers          Wbrkers    Diesel/Loco/       9 months    Best apprentlces
(superlor)                                Mechan.                        after 3 year
course above
5.  Center         Mohammedla     Workers    Welding.            18 months   Recruitment
(speclal                                  smith. foundry                 apprentice.
sk1lls)                                                                  trained workers
6.  Center         Oran            Staff      Train Contr.       2-6 weeks   Recrultment
(professional)                            Trafflc Accoun-                ( <previous
tlng. claims                  experience)
Shunt1ng          3 weeks
Civil Eng.        2 weeks
Maintenance
Moham_dia       Staff      Train Contr.       2-6 weeks   Refresher
Trafflc Acoun-   6 weeks
tlng. clalms
Blida           Staff      -dltto-            3-6 weeks   -dltto-
Benl Mansoor   Foremen    Shuntlng            3-6 weeks   -dltto-
Train
Crews



- 79 -
Table 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL RIFORT
£ICOND RAILWAY PRO.J3ET
Table 4. Technlcal Assistance. Consultancv Serviees and Overseas Trainino
Man/              foreign
nlts  Laal         Exchae  Total
----USS million ------
1.  Institutional Oevelopumnt
(a>  Cost Accounting Study/Implementat1on                   100
(b) Planning/Economic Analysls/Engineering/
Centralized Wagon Control                             62
(c)  Personnel Administration/Train1ng Managecent            40
(d) Computers (Pilot scheme for MIS improvemnt
and t1cketing)                                        20
(e)  Miscellaneous                                          _Z
Subtotal                    242        0.7        2.9       3.6
2. Tratntng
SNTF Tratning Centres:
Routba                                               160
Apprentices, skills for workers/technicians          180
Other                                                 20
Subtotal                    360        1.1       4.3        S.4
3.  Forelgn Study Tours                                          110       --         0.6       0.6
4.  Instructional equipment and materials:
Rouiba Center                                                     1.0       1.5        2.5
SNTF Centers                                                      1.2       1.8        3.0
5.  Computer and Office Support Equipmert                                 I.J2 9      .. -3LZ
Total                                             6.9      15.4       22.3



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Operations
I. Traffic
1.       Ninety-five  percent  of  freight  traffic  is  planned,  commodity
movement volumes being agreed annually becween the users (other para-
statals, local bodies organized for distribution of farm inputs and
essential goods) and SNTF.  The 1987 Transport Plan (see Table 9) is for a
lift of 13.2 million tons or 3.3 billion net ton-kilometers equivalent to
an average haul of 250 km.  Steel plant traffic - raw materials (iron ore,
coal, limestone/dolomite) and finished products - accounts for 6.9 million
tons (1.28 billion ton kilometers) or 52 percent of total rail tonnage or
39 percent of the ton-kilometers.  The next large volume bulk commodity is
phosphates with a share of 1.2 million tons (412 million net ton km) or 16
and 13 percent of tons and ton-kilometers respectively.  The bulk of this
traffic (68 percent of tonnage and 55 percent ton-km) moves over the
Eastern Mineral line and the route Annaba-Algiers or roughly 1,000
kilometers of the network.  About 558,000 tons of finished steel products
(plates, coils, rounds, billets, ingots) is short-haul (19 km) from the
plant to the port of Annaba for shipment by coastal vessels of up 12,000
tons to the port of Algiers from where the products are road delivered to
factories and local consumers.   The coastal movement is an artificially
induced transport calculated to develop coastal shipping. Costwise once on
to wagons at the steel plant it would be far more economical to transit
through the "brouettage" tonnage to Algiers for local distribution as SNTF
not only has the capacity to do so but all the consignees are siding
connected.
2.       LCL  traffic  consolidated  in full wagon load has dwindled from
41,000 tons in 1983 to a provision of 11,000 tons in the 1987 transport
plan-'. Evidently SNTF has a public service obligation to carry this
type  of  "smalls."   In August  1986  in  an  effort  to  cut  costs,  SNTF
contracted out the handling and consolidation of this traffie to freight
forwarders,  leasing  them  warehouse  space  in  the  origin-destination
terminals wherever available. During the period August-December 1986 about
2,700 tons Z   were  shipped  over  distances  averaging  100-1,000 km  (see
l/   This tonnage is included in 468,600 tons of General Good in full wagon
loads.
2/   January-July 1986 figures were not readily available.   The data in
Table 12 has been derived from computer coded data adopted after
August 1986.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Table 11). An occasional full wagon consignment has been as low as one or
two tons . Transit times notwithstanding, the low tariffs and the liberal
minimum wagon load tonnage of 5 tons prescribed makes this clasa of rail
movement a highly attractive proposition compared to road transport
partirtlarly for high volume low unit weight consignments. In relation to
the very low overall and individual annual tonnages lifted and its wide
dispersal, this traffic ties up a totally disproportionate quantum of the
railways' resources and is obviously highly costly to operate.   It should
be phased out as rapidly as possible and the simplest means of doing so
would be to raise the minimum weight conditions for LCL full wagon loads
first to 10 and subsequently to 15 tons.
II. Wagon turnaround
3.       For an average haul of 250 km, the wagon turnround of 13 days is
high (see Table 10).  Iron ore and phosphates wagons have a turnround of
1.6 and 3.4 days for average hauls of 181 and 344 kilometers respectively.
Petroleum product stock turnround averages 6 days for an average lead of
227 km, about the same as raw sugar for a shorter haul of 185 km.  The
e'other" traffic category - a mixed bag of commodities which includes
cement, fertilizers, flour, steel products (excluding coils) and general
goods - is, however, the main contributor to excessive turnround.  In this
category the turnround ranges between 28 and 22 days; the latter figure
excludes the wagons "stabled in good order" due to seasonal fluctuations or
variations in ship arrivals at ports for imported goods, of about 16-18
percent over the year.  In the general category of goods and in some bulk
commodities  like  gypsum,  fertilizers  and  salt,  unloading  delays  are
excessive because of lack of appropriate handling and conveying facilities
at  the  user's  terminals,  possibly  also  inadequate  storage.   Increased
demurrage charges do not appear to have been a deterrent to excessive
terminal detention of wagons.   In the view of the Ministry of Transport,
which has apparently not been able to assist SNTF significantly in reducing
terminal detentions, the problem lies more in the poor management by
parastatals and local bodies of their transport and handling activities
than in lack of means of handling local transport or storage capacity.
While undoubtedly the major part of detention is attributable to the users,
there appears to be some scope for improving terminal operations by
providing additional sidings, introducing additional shunting locomotives,
and eliminating marshalling on the main line track.
4.       No statistics are maintained of the time taken from the arrival of
a wagon at the main station yard and its placement/withdrawal in/from the
user's  siding.   The  efficiency  of  such  operations  depends  on  how
effectively shunting locomotives are deployed and controlled and if their
number is adequate for the totality of th.e service zones. About 50 wagon
weighbridges are planned to be installed in the 1987-88 period at major
loading stations to avoid overloading of wagons and disputes over tons



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
actually loaded. If the shunting movements are not more effectively
organized and controlled on the commissioning of this facility, the wagon
turnround is likely to increase f.rther.  In regard to "en route" shunting
by freight train engines, rationalization of procedures and reduction in
the number of stations where such shunting has to be done can contribute to
better utilization of wagons.  In addition, SNTF will undertake a study to
set up a centralized wagon control system in order to improve efficiency in
handling freight traffic. Wagon turnround on SNTF does need to be improved
as a reduction from 13 to 9 days would generate enough capacity for an
additional 2-3 million tons annually of freight.  Even if this additional
capacity is not required in the next two to three years, the effort is
worthwhile as the surplus wagons can either be "stabled in good order" or
the pace of selective retirement of overaged stock could be accelerated.
III. Eastern Mineral Line Traction
5.       Electric  locomotive  performance  will remain  poor  until the 24
units of East German origin are replaced or substituted by diesels.  Most
of the overhead catenary structures - presently in fairly sound condition -
dates from the mid-1930s when the line was electrified.  The equipment of
seven substations, purchased several years ago at relatively low prices, is
now  in the  course  of  replacement.   Operations  on  this  route are  not
entirely by electric traction:  at the Annaba end, diesel traction takes
over to serve the steel plant and port/industrial area as in the
remodelling and expansion scheme the tracks in the new complex - aggrega-
ting about 40 km - have not been electrified: electrification today vould
be an expensive proposition. At the mining end, iron ore trains from the
mines to Tebessa, the last point electrified, are diesel-hauled - a
distance of 25 km: likewise diesels are used over the 25 km stretch between
Oued Keberit and Ouenza. Frequent changes of traction are not conducive to
efficient operations and with a set of inherently low-performance electric
locomotives, the overall cost of operations would appear to be high.  SNTF
vill conduct a technical and economic study of the comparative advantages
of continuing with electric traction - with the necessary extensions of the
electrified line and eventual replacement of the electric locomotives -
versus switching over to diesel traction, gradually phasing out the
electric locomotives and building up diesel maintenance capacity at Souk
Ahras.



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Routine Track Maintenance Equipment
I. Introduction
1.       All  the  equipment  which  was  devoted  to  mechanized  track
maintenance has been transferred from SNTF to INFRAFER in early 1987, to
handle the increasing demand for periodic  track overhaul.  Most of the
equipment dates from 1985 and is in good condition.  The track overhaul
works are being contracted by SNTF either to INFRAFER or through
international tenders, the necessary equipment being provided by the
contractors.  For routine track maintenance works, SNTF still depends on
its own force account capacity of essentially manual labor. However, the
aging manpower and the difficulty in recruiting new workers have required
SNTF to develop new mechanized capacities to handle routine maintenance.
For this purpose, SNTF hires four heavy tamping machines from INFRAFER on a
permanent basis. To complete the necessary capacity for maintenance work,
SNTF has planned to purchase additional equipment as follows:
(a) light tam,ing machines (third level) which would be used
inter-al4 on turnouts;
(b)  gauge  and  material  trollies  devoted mainly  to  track  and
ancillary works and also for gang transport (labor force,
materials, small equipment);
(c)  additi,inal locomotives for engineering trains;
(d)  power tools and light equipment for track work;
(e)  a plant for reconditioning steel sleepers;
(f)  equipment  for  handling  track  materials  (rails,  sleepers,
etc.) in storeyards.
2.       The Bank mission reviewed the SNTF Track Maintenance Department
proposals for procurement of additional equipment under the project.
Adjustments were agreed upon as follows:



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(a)  In view of  low  traffic  densities,  deletion of  all items
dealing with narrow gauge lines;
(b) reduction of rail cars and trollies purchases from about 120
to 70 units but with increased pover (about 200 HP compared
to 100 HP initially proposed). Moreover, about two thirds of
the  rail  trollies  which  were  originally  designed  for
transport purposes only are now proposed with additional
equipment (cranes, backhoes) to provide a direct input to
vorks; and
(c)  reduction of the total number of crane and fork lift trucks
to  be  assigned  to regional workshops  and  track material
storage pools but with the addition of two gantries (10 tons
each).
II. List of Equipment and Costs
3.       The following provides details of maintenance equipment and costs.
()    Tampina machines
Four light tamping machines (third level) with a CIF price
estimate to DA 3.3 million per unit, or an equivalent of DA
3.7 million per unit including local taxes.  The total cost
including an additional provision of 10 for spare parts has
been estimated to DA 16.4 million, of which DA 14.4 million
is direct foreign exchange.
(ii)    Transport and track maintenance rolling stock
CIF unit prices
(DA million)
rail_trollies
20 units (208 HP) with crane                        1.3
20 units (208 HP) with backhoe                      1.1
20 units (170 HP) for gang transport                0.9
1 unit for bridges inspection                      1.5
2 units for catenary maintenance                   1.5
1 unit for ride index inspection                   2.1
veed killing_unit
1 unit with intensive output                        2.6
bu_h clearance units
4 units                                             2.7
locomotives
8 units (800 HP)                                    3.5



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
CIF prices have been estiuated at 882 of final costs which include
local taxes.   The total cost includes  10  additional  cost  for
spare parts has been estimated to DA 142.5 million, of which DA
125.4 million is direct foreign exchange.
(iii)    Tools/machinery for track works
CIF unit prices
('000 DA)
183 rail sawing machines                                 7.6
179 rail drills                                          7.4
201 regular sleeper-screv drivers                        9.0
63 spike and bolt drifers                              12.0
24 wooden aleeper borers                                7.0
20 rail loaders                                        30.0
4 rail layers                                        120.0
4 sleeper replacers                                  575.0
4 LWR stress release equipment                       270.0
12 Thermit welding equipment                           40.0
8 rail grinding equipment                             30.0
2 switcher layers                                 1,000.0
CIF prices are estimated at 802 of final costs  including local
taxes.   The total cost has been  therefore estimated to DA 15.8
million, of which DA 12.6 million for direct foreign exchange.
(iv)    Plant for reconditioning sleepers
The total cost is estimated to DA 4.0 million, of which DA 3.2
million for the direct foreign exchange.
(v)    Handling equipment
CIF unit prices
(DA million)
2 gantries (10 tons)                                    2.1
3 road crane trucks                                     0.9
14 fork lift trucks (6/8 tons)                           0.3
CIF prices are estimated at 80% of final costs including local
taxes. With an additional provision of 10 for spare parts, the
total   cost   is   estimated   to   DA 15.3   million   of   which
DA 12.2 million for direct foreign exchange.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
I. Introduction
1.       This annex provides the basic data and assumptions used in the
economic evaluation of the track rehabilitation and renewal subprojects, as
well as details of the block system component.  Background data have been
prepared by SNTF railway staff in collaboration with Bank missions.
Working papers are included in the Project File (Documents C2 and C3).
II. Track Rehabilitation Program
General
2.       A distinction should be made first between  track overhaul  and
complete track rehabilitation.   The latter applies only to those sections
of the network where substructure (platform, drainage) needs first to be
rehabilitated prior to track overhaul.  Detailed technical design studies
have been prepared for such sections by consultants.  Cost estimates for
the Ramdane Jamel - Annaba section (88 km) are derived from a first round
of bidding undertaken in 1986 which was subsequently cancelled. For track
overhaul, the current program has been prepared by the SNTF Track
Department.
Traffic Growth.
3.       The proposed project is oriented towards those sections of the
core network (2,200 km of standard gauge lines) which were the most heavily
trafficked .n 1986.
Gross trailed tons per km (GTT per km)
(million)
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba                                    3.62
Beni Mansour - Setif - El Gourzi                         4.16
El Hadjar - Bouchegouf - Souk Ahra:.                      7.93
4.       For the relevant section of the network, the forecast cumulative
traffic over the thirty year period 1991-2020 will range from 265 to
350 million gross-trailed tons, depending on the sections. Apart from the
eastern mineral line, freight traffic growth is expected to increase at
about 2.5% per year thrugh 1991, the proposed track renewal program



- 90 -
AMNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
precluding any additional growth.  Beyond 1991, once the track works have
been completed, freight traffic growth on the main network is expected to
increase to about 52 per year. Forecasta for the mineral line are based on
no increase in traffic up to 1991 followed by a 2.5% per year increase in
the longer term.  For passenger traffic, the average increase is expected
to be about 2.51 per year except on the section Ra dane Jamel - Annaba
where traffic is expected ta remain stagnant up to 1991 followed by a 2.5S
per year increase once track improvements have been completed.
Project Coats
5.       For flat tangent subsections,  the renewed track is designed  to
last at least 30 years which has been considered as a standard lifetime for
rails, sleepers and ballast. However, along sections with severe curvature
(radius smaller than 1,000 m.), increased wear will reduce rail life to 15
years.  It is also assumed that about 201 of sleepers are replaced,  and
about 301 of ballast replenished from years 15 to 20. A residual value is
considered for UIC 54B rail only. Based on fully mechanized track works,
about 401 of total cost relates to track materials and 60% to labor. A
detailed breakdown of the track overhaul unit cost is given in Annex 6,
Table 1. A typical economic net-of-tax cost for track renewal is estimated
at DA 2.88 million per km in 1987 prices. Additional substructure works on
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba have been estimated at DA 1.85 million per km.
Project Benefits
6.       Savings in expenditures on major spot repairs, as well as a part
of recurrent costs related to track material replacement constitute the
major  benefits  of  the  track  renewal  program.   Additional  savings are
expexted from reductions in (a) routine track maintenance costs, (b)
on-line train running times, (c) derailments, and (d) rolling stock
maintenance.
7.       Deferred Track Maintenance.  For the without project scenario, it
is assumed that in order to maintain track in serviceable condition, a
stepped-up maintenance effort would be necessary beyond that normally
required for routine maintenance tasks. Without such deferred maintenance,
the condition of the track would continue to deteriorate with demand
ultimately being diverted to road transport or economic activity being
disrupted. The rate of stepped-up maintenance has been assumed to build up
gradually, in line with a growing need for spot repair, such that after a
ten-year period the total of maintenance expenditures would be equivalent
to full track overhaul.  This spot improvement work is assumed to apply
first to subsections with severe curvature where existing conditions are
presumably at their worst.   All such spot repairs are carried out with
labor intensive methods and as a result, the lifetime of track items is
reduced since the quality of work is inferior to that achieved using
mechanized forces.  The basic assumptions used are as follows:  (i) rail



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
life in reduced by one-third; (ii) only 702 of aleepers would reach a
30-year life; (iii) the ballast replenishment would increase from 30S to
452. Maintenance costs using labor intensive methods are estimated to be
about 2.7 times higher than with mechanized forces with a breakdown of 20S
for track materials and 80%  for  labor  costs.   On  the  section between
Ramdane Jamel and Annaba which requires rehabilitation of the substructure,
it i assumed that only 252 of this work would be achieved in the vithout
project scenario. In addition, the work on the substructure would also be
undertaken using labor intensive methods.
8.       Routine Track Maintenance Costs.   Following track rehabilitation
and renewal, labor intensive maintenance can be replaced by a more
efficient system of mechanized routine maintenance. The savings from this
change in maintenance practices are estimated at about DA 30,000 per km.
9.       Operating Cost SavinRs.  On the basis of technical and operating
data which have been reviewed with railway technical staff, on-line travel
delays due to track conditions have been identified for each of the project
sections. The estimated annual cumulative train-hour savings are assumed
to be converted into capital and maintenance cost savings for rolling
stock, as well as into crew and energy cost savings.
10.      Improvement in the track conditions under the project are expected
to provide the following time savings per train:
Time savings (minutes)
Passenger      Freight
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba                        68             42
Beni Mansour - Setif                          15              5
Setif - El Gourzi                             12              2
El Hadjar - Bouchegouf                         7              3
Bouchegouf - Souk Ahras                       10             20
11.      The average operating cost savings per train-hour (at 1987 prices)
have been estimated as follows on standard gauge lines:
DA/train-hour
|Tye of train
Passenger (320 GTT)                               1,840
Freight
Mineral line (1250 GTT)                           1,095
Other lines (860 GTT)                             1,020



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
12.      Typical standard trains have been defined separately for passenger
and freight  traffic and for freight traffic on the mineral line.  Total
traffic on each section has been  converted  into  standard  train  travel
movements.   Annual  traffic  recorded  in  1986  expressed  as  standard
equivalent trains are as follows:
Passenger      Freight
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba                          784          3916
Beni Mansour - Setif                         3,305          3,606
Setif - El Gourzi                            2,734          3,821
El Hadjar - Souk Aharas                      1,565          5,944
13.      Accidents.   In 1986, derailments which have been recorded on the
main lines between stations, are the following:
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba                              10
Beni Mansour - Setif                                 2
Setif - El Gourzi                                    3
El Hadjar - Bouchegouf                               2
Bouchegouf - Souk Ahras                              8
14.      On average, about 50% of derailments are caused by the existing
poor track conditions. The economic cost of each derailment comprises the
cost of disrupted services and necessary repairs to the track and rolling
stock.   These  costs  depend  on  the  level  of  traffic  on each  section.
(Further details are given in the Project File).  Finally some additional
maintenance savings on rolling stock are expected following the upgrading
of the track profile.  However, most of those savings may be offset by
increased maintenance because of increases in operating speeds.
Results
15.      Annex  6,  Tables  2 to 6 show the quantities of replaced track
materials in the with and without project scenarios for the five sections
under consideration. Annex 6, Tables 7 to 11 show the track rehabilitation
or track renewal investment costs allocated between materials and labor,
and Annex 6, Tables 12 to 16 show the streams of costs and benefits taking
into consideration both investment costs and operating savings.   The ERs
and Benefit/Cost ratios at a 10% discount rate are estimated as follows:
ER        B/C
Sections
Ramdane Jamel - Annaba                    18         1.5
Beni Mansour - Setif                      24         1.8
Setif - El Gourzi                         22         1.6
El Hadjar - Bouchegouf                    22         1.8
Bouchegouf - Souk Ahras                   27         2.2



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
16.      Two types of sensitivity analysis have been carried out: (i) a 10%
increase in investment costs combined with a 10% decrease in benefits, and
(ii) a 100% devaluation of the dinar. Revised ERs range in both cases from
about 141 for Ramdane Jamel - Annaba, to 22% for Bouchegouf - Souk Ahras.
Details of the sensitivity tests are shown in the Project File.
III. Signalling and Telecommunication
17.      A number of subcomponents included under the proposed signalling
and telecommunication program, such as level crossing equipment and
replacement of obsolete signals, are primarily designed to meet safety
objectives.  As these investments are concentrated on the East-West trunk
line and particularly on those sections scheduled for track rehabilitation
and renewal, they have been included as integral part of the project.
However, as their effects are diffused, no attempt has been made to
quantify the benefits from these investments.
18.      A more detailed assessment has been made for block installations
which are planned for Ramdane Jamel - Annaba (single line manual block) and
Algiers - El Harrach (automatic line block). These block system improve-
ments vill provide travel time savings, relief of bottlenecks and safety
benefits.
19.      For the Ramdane Jamel - Annaba section,  the installation of a
single line block system will increase the traffic saturation level from
about 22 to 35 trains per day. However, as the existing traffic is only 13
trains per day on average, and given current traffic growth prospects, it
is unlikely that any saturation would occur before year 2000.  The main
benefits would therefore accrue from travel time savings and relief of
congestion.
20.      The proposed block system investment on Ramdane Jamel - Annaba is
broken down as follows:
Item                                    Economic Cost
(DA million of tax)
Block system                                      5.0
Point control cabins (7)                         25.4
Telephone (7 stations)                           10.0
40.4
21.      Turnout control boxes and modernization of the existing telephone
equipment are considered necessary to take full advantage of the block
system.  The average travel time saving has been estimated at 5 minutes
through each station.  With 1991 being taken as first year of operation,
time savings over a 20-year period would be sufficient to provide an ER in
excess of 15%.  However, by the year 2000 capacity constraints would be



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
felt in the without project scenario and potential demand vould be diverted
to road transport implying additional benefits in the form of transport
cost savings.
22.      For  the section Algiers - El Harrach,  the proposed investuent
would conuist of the following:
Item                                 Economic Cost
(DA million net of tax)
Automatic line block                             15.0
Turnout control boxes (4)                        12.0
27.0
23.      On this section, main line trains currently do not stop at the
four inte;-mediate stations. and therefore do not incur any travel time
losses.   For suburban trains,  the expected travel time savings will be
marginal with the introduction of the block system. The major benefits are
expected from increased capacity which would be raised from 153 to 242
trains per day. The saturation level is already achieved during about nine
peak hours per day vith an average of about eight trains per hour. Any
incremental suburban travel demand vill require additional services or
would be diverted to a road transport alternative (busses, taxis, or even
private cars). For suburban traffic, long term marginal coasts, including
provision for the development of infrastructure, are lover for rail
transport  compared  to  road  transport.   In  addition,  for  the  rail
alternative, the impact on the urban environment vill be attenuated and
energy consumption will be lower.  However,  detailed assessment  of  the
benefits of the block system are not possible given the lack of detailed
information on urban traffic patterns.



AL  RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Overhaul Investmnt Costs Mer Average km l
(1987 prices)
Quantity      Unit              Cost/km       Direct Forelon Exchmn4e Cost/b
units     Der km         rieLs (D.l         0L00 DA        Fore lgn             IFRAFER
Contractor
1. Materal
rail UIC 54 B                   t          110.2           3,250            358           358                      358
sleepers (1700/km)
wooden (15%)                pcs         255               170             43            43                       43
concrete (85X)              pcs       1,445               22S           325            105                       75
fastenings 2/                   t           11.5          10,000            115            115                     115
fish plates ttes «L            pcs          28               250              7              7                       7
weudina portions supplY 9/    Pcs           83               145             12             12                      12
switches                       pcs           0.2         200,000             40            40                       40                         g
ballast                         m3       2,000               140           _28            la                       _O
1.180           7J0                      650
2.  Wrks                                                                        1,600            800                      -
3.  Site DreDaration                                                            __0               40
Etonic  CLost                          2,880         1.620                      650
Taxes
Foreign Contractor (25%)                720
Local Contractor (13%)                  370
Total C,st
Foreign Contractor                   3,600
Local Contractor                      3,250
otes:  1J/  The breakdown refers mainly to the section Beni Mansour - Setif - El Gourzi where the geometrics
would permit the average following conditions:
50% of the track equiped with long welded rail (LWR) layed on concrete sleepers
50% of the track equiped with bars of 36 a., of which 30% layed on wooden sleepers. and
70% layed on concrete sleepers.
2/ The average weight of fastenings per sleeper unit is of 14 kg on wooden, and 5.5 kg on concrete.
,/   Only 50% of the track is equiped with bars, and therefore needs ties (2 x 500): 36 = 28 ties/km.
9/   Bars of 36 m. are obtatned from bars of 18 m. which require 55 welded joints per km.  In addition,
50% of the track ts layed with long welded rails which need 28 supplementary welded joints per km.



- 96 -
Annex 6
Table 2
ALGERIA
STAFF PPLAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Annaba-R. Jaiel (87.8 km)
Track Material Renlacement
With the Prolect                                 Without the Project
Track Materials                                     Track Mater1als
Recycl ed                                           Recycled
New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast        Rail         New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast        Rail
(km)       (no.)         (mL         (km)           (kml       (nc.]         (m31        (km)
1988     13.10      22,400       26.340        8.00           4.4         7.463       8,780        4.4
1989     52.70      89,550      105.360                       5.3         8,956       10,536       3.6
1990     22.00      37.310       43,900                       6.1        10.448       12,292
1991                                                          7.0        11.941       14,048
1992                                                          7.9        13.433       15,804
1993                                                          8.8        14,926       17.560
1994                                                          9.7        16.419       19,316
199s                                                         10.5        17.911       21,072
1996                                                         12.3        20.896       24.584
1997                                                         15.8        26,867       31.608
1998                                                          4.4                                  4.4
1999                                                          5.3                                  5.3
2000                                                          6.1                                   6.1
2001                                                          1.2                                   1.2
2002
2003      2.54          747       1,322        2.54                         373          659
2004     10.20        3.732       6.590       10.20                         821        1.449
2005      4.26       4.975        8.785        4.26                       1.343        2,371
2006                  4.975       8.785                                   1.940        3,424
2007                 4,975        8.785                                   2.612        4.610
2008                  4,975       8.785                       4.4         3.358        5.927       4.4
2009                 4.229        7,463                       5.3         3,806       6,717        5.3
2010                  1.244       2.195                       6.1         4.254        7.507       6.1
2011                                                          7.0         4.776        8.429       7.0
2012                                                          7.9         S.523        9.746       7.9
2013                                                          8.8         4.851        8.561       8.8
2014                                                          9.7         4.105       7,244        9.7
2015                                                         10.5         3.284        5.795      10.5
2016                                                         12.3         2.388        3,951      12.3
2017                                                         15.8         1,343        2,107      15.8
2018
2019
2020



- 97 -
Annex 6
Table 3
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Beni Mansour-Sel.Lf (MA. kml
Track Material Replacemnt
With the Proiect                                 Without the Prolect
Track Haterials                                      Track Haterials
Recycled                                           Recycled
New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast         Rail        New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast         Rail
(km1        (no,)        (m31         (km)          (km)        (no.)         (m31       (kal
1988
1989     39.9       67.830       79.800                        4.4         7.514        8,840
1990     48.5       82.450       971100                        5.3         9.017       10.608
1991                                                           6.2        10.520       12,376
1992                                                           7.1        12.022       14,144
1993                                                           8.0        13.525       15,912
1994                                                           8.8        15.028       17.680
1995                                                           9.7        16.531       19.448
1996                                                          10.6        18.034       21.216
1997                                                          12.4        21.039       24,752
1998                                                          15.9        27.050       31.824
1999                                                           4.4                                  4.4
2000                                                           5.3                                  5.3
2001                                                           6.2                                  6.2
2002                                                           7.1                                  7.1
2003                                                           7.3                                  7.3
2004     13.7        2.261        3,990         13.7                         376          663
2005     16.7        5,009        8,840         16.7                         827        1.459
2006                 5.009        8.840                                    1.353        2.387
2007                 S.009        8.840                                    1.954        3,448
2008                 5.009        8.R40                                    2.630        4.641
2009                 5,009        8.840                        4.4         3.381        5.967       4.4
2010                 2.748        4,850                        5.3         3,832        6.763       5.3
2011                                                           6.2         4,283        7.558       6.2
2012                                                           7.1         4.809        8,486       7.1
2013                                                           8.0         5.560        9.812       8.0
2014                                                           8.8         4,884        8.619       8.8
2015                                                           9.7         4.133        7.293       9.7
2016                                                          10.6         3.306        5.834      10.6
2017                                                          12.4         2,404        4,243      12.4
2018
2019
2020



- 98 -
Ann-y 6
Table 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Stif-E1 Gourzl 1103.3 §MI
Track Mater     _ laglacmmnt
With the Prolect                                WUthout the Prolect
Track Mater1als                                      Track Mater1ais
Recycled                                           Recycled
New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast         Rail        New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast         Rail
(km)       (no,)         CM31         (kam          Lkm)        (no.l         (M3f       (km)
1988
1989      Sl.9        88,230       103,800                      5.2        8.832       10,390
1990      52.0        88,400      104,000                       6.2       10.598       12,468
1991                                                            7.3       12,364       14,546
1992                                                            8.3       14.130       16.624
1993                                                            9.4       15.897       18.702
1994                                                           10.4       17,663       20.780
199S                                                           11.4       19.429       22,858
1996                                                           12.5       21.196       24,936
1997                                                           14.5       24.728       29,092
1998                                                           18.7       31,793       37.404
1999                                                            5.2                                  5.2
2000                                                            6.2                                  6.2
2001                                                            7.3                                  7.3
2002                                                            8.3                                  8.3
2003                                                            9.4                                  9.4
2004      37.3         2.941        5.190       37.30           0.9          442          779        0.9
2005                   5.888       10,390                                    972        1.714
2006                   5.888      10.390                                   1,590        2.805
2007                   5.888      10.390                                   2,296        4.052
2008                   5.888       10,390                                  3.091        5.455
2009                   5.888      10.390                        5.2        3,974        7.013        5.2
2010                   2.947       5,200                        6.2        4,504        7,948        6.2
2011                                                            7.3        5.034        8.883        7.3
2012                                                            8.3       5652         9.974        8.3
2013                                                            9.4        6.535       11.533        9.4
2014                                                           10.4        5.740       10.130       10.4
2015                                                           11.4        4.857        8.572       11.4
2016                                                           12.5        3.886        6.857       12.5
2017                                                           14.5        2.826        4.987       14.5
2018
2019
2020



- 99 -
Ann^x 6
Table 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEJcoND RAILMAY PROJECT
El Hadiar-4muchehouf (44.J lm>
Traek Matartal Renl&ggglo
IIth the Protéet                                 Withaut the Proieet
Track Matertals                                     Traek Kat.rials
Recycled                                          Recycled
New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast         Rail        New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast        Rail
Lhl        (na.1         I  d )       (ka)kl                    {                       (knJ
1988
1989
1990      44.5        75.650      89.000        44.5          2.2         3.783        4.450       2.2
1991           .                                              2.7         4.539        5.340       2.7
1992                                                          3.1         5.296        6,230       3.1
1993                                                          3.6         6.052        7.120       3.6
1994                                                          4.0         6,809        8.010       4.0
1995                                                          4.5         7.565        8.900       4.5
1996                                                          4.9         8.322        9.790       4.9
1997                                                          5.3         9.078       10.680       5.3
1998                                                          6.2        10.591       12.460       6.2
1999                                                          8.0        13.617       16.020       8.0
2000                                                          2.2                                  2.2
2001                                                          2.7                                  2.7
2002                                                          3.1                                  3.1
2003                                                          3.6                                  3.6
2004                                                          4.0                                  4.0
2005      28.2         2.522       4.450        28.2          4.5           189          334       4.5
2006                   2.522       4.450                      4.9           416          734       4.9
2007                   2.522       4.450                      3.2           681        1,202       3.2
2008                   2.522       4.450                                    984        1.736
2009                   2,522       4.450                                  1,324        2.336
2010                   2.522       4.450                      2.2         1.702        3,004       2.2
2011                                                          2.7         1.929        3,404       2.7
2012                                                          3.1         2.156        3.805       3.1
2013                                                          3.6         2.421        4.272       3.6
2014                                                          4.0         2.799        4,940       4.0
2015                                                          4.5         2.459        4.339       4.5
2016                                                          4.9         2.081        3.671       4.9
2017                                                          5.3         1.664        2.937       5.3
2018
2019
2020



- 100 -
Table 6
ALGERLA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOO RAILuaY PRojCT
Bocheaouf-Souk Ahras (46.0 kml
Track Material Renlacament
With the Prolect                               Wtthout the Proiect
Treck Haterials                                  Track Haterials
Recycled                                       Recycled
New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast      Rail       New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast     Ratl
(km) 1      nôA        (m3)        (km)         Lkml       {no.)       Im3)       Lkml
1988
1989
1990      46.0       7P,200     92.000        46.0         2.3         3,910      4,600      2.3
1991                                                       2.8         4,692      5,520      2.8
1992                                                       3.2         5.474      6.440      3.2
1993                                                       3.7         6.256      7.360      3.7
1994                                                       4.1         7,038      8.280      4.1
1995                                                       4.6         7.820      9,200      4.6
1996                                                       S.1         8.602     10.120      5.1
1997                                                       5.5         9,384     11.040      5.5
1998                                                       6.4        10.948     12,880      6.4
1999                                                       8.3        14.076     16.560      8.3
2000                                                       2.3                               2.3
2001                                                       2.8                               2.8
2002                                                       3.2                               3.2
2003                                                       3.7                               3.7
2004                                                       4.1                               4.1
2005       38.0        2,607     4,600        38.0         4.6           196        345      4.6
2006                   2.607     4,600                     5.1           430        759      5.1
2007                  2,607      4,600                     S.S           704      1.242      5.5
2008                   2.607      4.600                    6.4         1.017      1,794      6.4
2009                   2,607     4.600                                 1,369      2,415
2010                   2.607     4.600                     2.3         1.760      3.105      2.3
2011                                                       2.8         1,995      3.519      2.9
2012                                                       3.2         2.229      3.933      3.2
2013                                                       3.7         2.503      4.416      3.7
2014                                                       4.1         2,894      5.106      4.1
2015                                                       4.6         2.542      4.485      4.6
2016                                                       5.1         2,151      3,795      5.1
2017                                                       5.3         1,721      3.036      5.5
2018
2019
2020



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Annaba-R. Jamel t87.8 km)
Economic Cost of Track Overhaul
(DA million)
With the Proiect                                                              Without the Prolect
Track Materials                                                            TJrack Naterlals
Recycled  Sub-         Economic                                                 Recycled  Sub-          Economic
New Rail  Sleepers  Ballast  Labor    Rail    structure    Cost                 New Rail  Sléeeers  Ba3llst  Labor    Rail    structure    CosL
1988       5.47      6.38       3.69   22.38    1.43          24.24       60.74           1.84        2.13      1.23    20.78    0.79           5.41       30.60
1989      22.02    25.52       14.75   89.70                  97.50      249.49           2.21        2.SS      1.48    24.97    0.64          6.52        37.09
1990       9.19     10.63       6.15   37.40                  40.70      104.07           2.55        2.98      1.72    28.99    7.50         43.74
1991                                                                                      2.92        3.40      1.97    33.18                   8.61       50.08
1992                                                                                      3.30        3.83      2.21     37.37                  9.72       56.43
1993                                                                                      3.68        4.25      2.46    41.56                  10.82       62.77
1994                                                                                      4.05        4.68      2.70    45.75                  11.93       69.11
1995                                                                                      4.39        5.10      2.95    49.77                  12.92       75.13
1996                                                                                      5.14        5.96      3.44    58.14                  15.13       87.81
1997                                                                                      6.60        7.66      4.43    74.73                  19.43      112.85            F
1998                                                                                       1.84                           7.35    0.79                      8.40            o
1999                                                                                      2.21                            8.86    0.95                     10.12
2000                                                                                      2.55                           10.19    1.09                     11.65
2001                                                                                      0.50                            2.01     0.21                     2.29
2002
2003       1.06      0.21        0.19    2.10    0.45                       3.11                      0.11      0.09      0.79                              0.99
2004       4.26      1.06        0.92    9.00      1.83                    13.42                      0.23      0.20      1.75                              2.18
2005       1.78      1.42        1.23    6.38    0.76                      10.04                      0.38      0.33      2.86                              3.57
2006                 1.42        1.23    3.81                              6.46                       0.55      0.48      4.13                              5.16
2007                 1.42        1.23    3.81                              6.46                       0.74      0.65      5.56                              6.95
2008                 1.42        1.23    3.81                              6.46            1.84       0.96      0.83     14.50    0.79                     17.34
2009                 1.21        1.04    3.24                              5.49            2.21       1.08      0.94     16.96    0.95                     20.25
2010                 0.35        0.31     0.95                             1.61           2.55        1.21      1.05     19.25    1.09                     22.97
2011                                                                                       2.92       1.36      1.18    21.86    1.25                      26.08
2012                                                                                       3.30       1.57      1.36    24.96    1.41                      29.78
2013                                                                                       3.68       1.38      1.20    25.03    1.58                      29.71
2014                                                                                      4.05        1.17      1.01    24.95    1.74                      29.45
2015                                                                                      4.39        0.94      0.81     24.54     1.88                    28.79
2016                                                                                      5.14        0.68      0.55    25.49    2.20                      29.66
2017                                                                                      6.60        0.38      0.29    29.12    2.83                      33.57       -3
2018 
2019
2020                                                                                                                                                                      X
Unit costs: New Rail        DA/km  417,815
Sleepers      OA/unit    285
Ballast       OA/m3        140
Value of recycled rail: DA/km 179,000



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEâ_CQ RAILWAY PRDECT
Bni Hansour-Setif 998.4 k-)
Econaoic Cost of Track Overhaul
(DA million)
with the Promret                                                        withaut the Pro1ect
Track Naterials                                                          Traek Materials
Recycled    Economtc                                                     R cycled    Econo1ic
New Rail    Sleepers    kailast    Labor         Rail         Cs         limiew Rails n            Ballast    Lahar        k1           Cost
1988
1989        16.67        19.33      11.17      67.93                   115.11        1.84         2.14        1.24       20.87                   26.86
1990       20.26        23.50       13.58      82.57                   139.92        2.21         2.57        1.49       25.08                   31.3S
1991                                                                                 2.59         3.00        1.73       29.29                   36.61
1992                                                                                 2.97         3.43        1.98       33.49                   41.06
1993                                                                                 3.34         3.85        2.23       37.70                   47.12
1994                                                                                 3.68         4.28        2.48       41.74                   52.17
1995                                                                                 4.05         4.71        2.72       45.95                   57.43
1996                                                                                 4.43         5.14        2.97      S5.16                    62.69
1997                                                                                 5.18         6.00        3.47      S.57                    73.21
1998                                                                                 6.64         7.71        4.46       75.23                   94.04
1999                                                                                 1.84                                 7.35       0.79         8.40
2000                                                                                 2.21                                 8.86       0.95        10.12
2001                                                                                 2.59                                10.36       1.11        11."4
2002                                                                                 2.97                                11.87       1.27        13.56
2003                                                                                 3.05                                12.20       1.31        13.94
2004         5.72         0.64        0.56      9.97       2.45         14.45                     0.11        0.09        0.80                    1.00
2005         6.98         1.43        1.24      13.89      2.99         20.54                     0.24        0.20        1.76                    2.20
2006                      1.43        1.24      3.84                     6.50                     0.39        0.33        2.88                    3.60
2007                      1.43        1.24      3.84                     6.50                     0.56        0.48        4.16                    5.20
2008                      1.43        1.24      3.84                     6.50                     0.75        0.65        5.60                    7.00
2009                      1.43        1.24      3.84                     6.50        1.84         0.96        0.84       14.55       0.79        17.40
2010                      0.78        0.68      2.11                     3.57        2.21         1.09        0.9S       17.01       0.95        20.32
201I                                                                                 2.59         1.22        1.06       19.48       1.11        23.24
2012                                                                                 2.97         1.37        1.19       22.10       1.27        26.3S
2013                                                                                 3.34         1.58        1.37       25.20       1.43        30.07
2014                                                                                 3.68         1.39        1.21       25.10      .1.58        29.80
2015                                                                                 4.0S         1.18        1.02       25.01       1.74        29.52
2016                                                                                 4.43         0.94        0.82       24.75       1.90        29.04
2017                                                                                 5.18         0.69        0.59       25.84       2.22        30.00
2018
2019
2020
Unit costs: New Rail       DA/km   417.815
Sleepers      DA/unit      285
Ballast       DA/m3        140
value of recycled rail:  DA/km   179,000



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Setif-El Gour2i (103.3 km)
econmnie Cost of Track Dverhaul
(DA million)
With the Prolect                                                       Without the Prolct
Track Materials                                                         Track Materials
Recycled    Economic                                                    R cycled    Econoet
New Ratl    Sleepers    Ballast    Labor         Rail        CoLs       New Ra1l    Sleeers        afllast    LMkr       hl           Cnst
1988
1989      21.68         25.15       14.53     88.36                   149.72        2.17        2.52        1.45       24.S                    30.72
1990      21.73         25.19       14.56     U.53                    150.01        2.59        3.02        1.75       29.43                    36.08
1991                                                                                3.05        3.S2        2.04       34.44                    43.05
1992                                                                                3.47        4.03        2.33       39.29                   49.11
1993                                                                                3.93        4.53        2.62       44.31                    5S.38
i994                                                                                4.35        5.03        2.91       49.15                   61.44
1995                                                                                4.76        5.54        3.20       54.00                   67.60
1996                                                                                S.22       6.04         3.49       59.02                    73.77
1997                                                                                6.06        7.05        4.07       68.71                   S.89
1998                                                                                7.81        9.06        5.24      U8.44                    110.5S           °
1999                                                                                2.17                                8.69       0.93          9.93
2000                                                                                2.59                               10.36       1.11         11.U4
2001                                                                                3.05                               12.20       1.31         13.94
2002                                                                                3.47                               13.87       1.49         15.85
2003                                                                                3.93                               15.71       1.68         17.95
2004      15.58          0.84        0.73      24.69      6.68         35. 7        0.38        0.13        0.11        2.44       0.16          2.89
2005                     1.68        1.46       4.51                    7.64                    0.28         0.24       2.07                     2.58
2006                     1.68        1.45       4.51                    7.64                    0.45         0.39       3.38                     4.23
2007                     1.68        1.45       4.51                    7.64                    0.65         0.57       4.89                     6.11
2008                     1.68        1.45       4.51                    7.64                    0.88        0.76        6.58                     8.22
2009                     1.68        1.45       4.51                    7.64        2.17        1.13        0.98       17.15       0.93         20.50
2010                     0.84        0.73       2.26                    3.83        2.59        1.28         1.11      19.95       1.11         23.82
2011                                                                                3.05        1.43         1.24      22.91       1.31         27.34
2012                                                                                3.47        1.61         1.40      2S.90       1.49         30.89
2013                                                                                3.93        1.86         1.61      29.62       1.68         35.34
2014                                                                                4.35        1.64         1.42      29.60       1.06         35.14
2015                                                                                4.76        1.38         1.20      29.39       2.44         34.70
2016                                                                                5.22        1.11         0.96      29.16       2.24         34.21
2017                                                                                6.06        0.81        0.?0       30.2S       2.60         35.21
2018
2019                                                                                                                                                      .4
2020
Unit costs: New Rail      DA/km  417,815                                                                                                                  iq.
Sïeepers     DA/unit    285
bellast      OA/m3       140
Value of rec)cled rail:  OA/ka  179,000



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAy PRDJECT
El Hadiar-Bouchecouf l44.5 km)
Ec nomic Cost oF Track Overhaul
(DA million)
Track Materials  WihtePoetTrack MaterialsWthute  rit
Recycled    Economic                                                          Recycled    Econonic
New Rail    Sleecers    Ballast    Labor             Rail         Cost        New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast    Labor             Ra11ios
1988
1989
1990       18.59          21.56        12.46      75.76        7.97         120.41         0.92         1.08          0.62       10.48       0.39         12.71
1991                                                                                       1.13         1.29          0.75       12.68       0.48         15.36
1992                                                                                       1.30          1.51         0.87       14.71       O.SS         17.83
1993                                                                                       l.SO          1.72         1.00       16.90       0.64         20.4J
1994                                                                                       1.67          1.94         1.12       18.93       0.72         22.95
1995                                                                                       1.88         2.16          1.25      21.13        0.81         2S.61
1996                                                                                       2.05         2.37          1.37       23.16       0.88         28.07             1
1997                                                                                       2.21         2.59          1.50      25.19        0.95         30.54            b-
1998                                                                                       2.59          3.02         1.74       29.41       1.11         35.66            °
1999                                                                                       3.34         3.88          2.24       37.86       1.43         45.90
2000                                                                                       0.92                                   3.68       0.39          4.20
2001                                                                                       1.13                                   4.51       0.48          5.16
2002                                                                                       1.30                                   5.18       O.SS          5.92
2003                                                                                       1.50                                   6.02       0.64          6. U
2004                                                                                       1.67                                   6.69       0.72          7.64
2005       11.78           0.72         0.62       18.90       5.05          26.98         1.88          0.05         O.OS        7.92       0.81          9.10
2006                       0.72         0.62        1.93                      3.27         2.05         0.12          0.10        9.07       0.88         10.47
2007                       0.72         0.62        t.93                      3.27         1.34         0.19          0.17        6.80       O.S}          7.92
2008                       0.72         0.62        1.93                      3.27         0.00          0.28         0.24        2.09       0.00          2.62
2009                       0.72         0.62        1.93                      3.27         0.00          0.38         0.33        2.82       0.00          3.52
2010                       0.72         0.62        1.93                      3.27         0.92          0.49         0.42        7.30       0.39          6.73
2011                                                                                       1.13         0.55          0.48        8.62       0.48         10.29
2012                                                                                       1.30          0.61         0.53        9.77       O.SS         il.66
2013                                                                                       1.50          0.69         0.60       11.17       0.64         13.32
2014                                                                                       1.67          0.80         0.69       12.64       0.72         15.09
2015                                                                                       1.88          0.70         0.61       12.75       0.81         15.14
2016                                                                                       2.05         0.59          O.S1       12.62       0.88         14.89 
2017                                                                                       2.21          0.47         0.41       12.40       O.9S         14.55S 
2018                                                                                                                                                                  Cr z
2019                                                                                  ~ 
2020                                                                                                                                                                  ID 
Unit costs: New Rail        DA/km  417,815
Sleepers       DA/unit    285
Ballast        OA/m3        140
Value of recycled rall:  DA/km  179,000



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPIIRT
SECOND RAILWAY PRu^JECT
Bouchecouf-Souk Ahras (46.0 km)
EcQnomic Cost of Track Overhaul
(DA million)
Wtth the ProJect                                                             Without the Prniect
Track Matertals                                                               Track Materials
Recycled    Econom1c                                                          Recycled    Econonsc
New Rlail    Sleepers    Ballast    Labor            Rail         Cost        New Rail    Sleepers    Ballast    Labor             Rail          Cnst
1988
1989
1990     19.22        22.29         12.88      78.32        8.23        124.47         0.96          1.11         0.64       10.88       0.41          13.18
1991                                                                                       1.17         1.34         0.77       13.12       0.50          15.90
1992                                                                                       1.34         1.56         0.90        15.19      0.57          18.42
1993                                                                                      1.55          1.78         1.03       17.44       0.66          21.13
9q94                                                                                      1.71          2.01         1.16       19.51      0.73          23.66
995                                                                                       1.92         2.23         1.29        21.75      0.82          26.37
;.996                                                                                     2.13          2.45         1.42       24.00       0.91          29.081
1997                                                                                      2.3a          2.67         1.55       26.07       0.98          31.61            F
1998                                                                                      2.67          3.12         1.80       30.39       1.15          36.84°
1999                                                                                       3.47         4.01         2.32       39.19       1.49          47.50
2000                                                                                       0.96                                   3.84      0.41           4.391
2001                                                                                       1.17                                   4.68      0.50           5.35
2002                                                                                       1.34                                   5.35      0.57           6.11
2003                                                                                       1.55                                   6.18      0.66           7.07
2004                                                                                       1.71                                   6.85      0.71           7.81
2005        15.88         0.74          0.64      24.86        6.80          35.32         1.92         0.06         0.05         8.10      0.82           9.31
2006                      0.74          0.64       2.00                       3.38         2.13         0.12         0.11         9.44      0.91          10.89
2007                      0.74          0.64        2.00                      3.38         2.30         0.20         0.17        10.69      0.98          12.lS
2008                      0.74          0.64        2.00                      3.38         2.67         0.29         0.25        12.86      1.15          14.93
2009                      0.74          0.64        2.00                      3.38                      0.39         0.34         2.91      o.eo           3.64
2010                      0.74          0.64       2.00                       3.38         0.96         0.50         0.43         7.59      0.41           9.07
2011                                                                                       1.17         0.57         0.49         8.92      0.50          10.65
2012                                                                                       1.34         0.64         O.S5        10.09      O.S7          12.04
2013                                                                                       1.S5         0.71         0.62        11.51      0.66          11.71
2014                                                                                       1.71         0.82         0.71        13.01      0.73          IS.63
2015                                                                                       1.92         0.72         0.63        13.10      0.82          15.55
2016                                                                                       2.13         0.61         O.S3        13.10      0.91          15.46
2017                                                                                       2.30         0.49         0.43        12.85      0.98          15.0        r 
2020                                                                                                             
Unit costs: New Rail        DA/km  417.815
Sleepers       OA/unit    285
Ballast        DA/m3       140
Value of recycled rail: DA/km 179 000



- 106 -
Table 12
ALGSMA
£TAFr ANMA! AL REIPT
Stco RMIUI&Y POOWECT
*nh-1. .11  117.1 jkb
mase Colt Analxsis
(DA million)
Bénhfd ts
Project                                                                    Roll1ng
Invest.ent    Det erred         Routine        Tint         Avolded          Stock           Net
Cost       Ha1ntenance    Faflntenane       Sav1nas      eraflaUents    Ha1nt nance       Costs
1988       60.74          30.60                                                                      (30.14)
1989      249.49          37.09                                                                     (212.40)
1990      104.07          43.74                                                                      (60.33)
1991                      50.08           2.63          5.03          3.53             0.03           61.30
1992                      56.43           2.63          5.25          3.87             0.03           68.21
1993                      62.77           2.63          5.46          4.24            0.03            75.13
1994                      69.11           2.63          5.69          4.65            0.04            82.12
1995                      75.13           2.63          5.93          S.09            0.04            88.82
1996                      87.81           2.63          6.18          5.58            0.04           102.24
1997                     112.85           2.63          6.45          6.12            0.04           128.09
1998                       8.40           2.63          6.72          6.71            0.04            24.50
1999                      10.12           2.63          7.01          7.35             0.04           27.15
2000                       11.65           2.63          7.31         8.06             O.OS           29.70
2001                        2.29           2.63          7.62         8.83             O.OS           21.42
2002                                       2.63         7.96          9.68             0.05           20.32
2003        3.11            0.99           2.63         8.30          10.60            O.OS           19.47
2004       13.42            2.18           2.63         8.65          11.62            0.06           11.73
2005        10.04           3.57           2.63         9.03          12.74            0.06           17.99
2006        6.46            5.16           2.63         9.43          13.96            0.06           24.78
2007        6.46            6.95           2.63         9.84          15.30            0.06           28.32
2008        6.46           17.34           2.63         10.27         16.77            0.07           40.62
2009        5.49          20.25           2.63          10.72         18.38            0.07           46.56
2010         1.61         22.97            2.63         11.19        20.15             0.07           55.39
2011                      26.08            2.63         11.69        22.08             0.08           62.56
2012                      29.78            2.63         12.21        24.20             0.08           68.90
2013                      29.71            2.63         12.75        26.52             0.09           71.70
2014                      29.45            2.63         13.31        29.07             0.09           74.55
2015                      28.79            2.63         13.91        31.86             0.09           77.26
2016                      29.66            2.63         14.53        34.92             0.10           81.84
2017                      33.57            2.63         1S.19        38.27             0.10           89.76
2018                                       2.63         15.86        41.94             0.11           60.54
2019                                       2.63         16.57        4S.97             0.11           65.28
2020                                       2.63         17.33        50.38             0.12           70.46
My
0%       467.35         944.53          78.90        297.39        538.44             1.9S        1.393.85
10%       383.32         422.29          20.49         58.08         7S.S1             0.37          193.41
18.2%



- 107 -
Table 13
STAFF AFPUaIIAL EEPoeT
gmIi Mmsour-Setitf I.4 kbl
Ras$ Coqt Analvîst
(DA million)
.naef ts
Project                                                                     Rolling
Investmmnt    Deferred          Routine         Time         Avoided          Stock           met
Cost        ma1ntenance    maintenance    Savfnns    DerallUats    dainUtcanmc             Casts
1988
1989      115.11          26.09                                                                       (89.02)
1990      139.92          31.35                                                                      (108.57)
1991                      36.61            2.65           3.90          0.95            3.04           44.15
1992                      41.86            2.65           4.03           1.03           0.05           49.62
1993                      47.12            2.65           4.17           1.11           O.OS           SS.10
1994                      52.17            2.65           4.31           1.20           0.05           60.38
1995                      57.43            2.65           4.45           1.29           0.05           6S.a7
1996                      62.69            2.65           4.60           1.40           O.OS           71.39
1997                      73.21            2.65           4.76           1.51           0.06           82.19
1998                      94.04            2.65           4.91           1.63           0.06          103.29
1999                       8.40            2.65           5.08           1.76           0.06           17.95
2000                      10.12            2.65           5.25           1.9C           0.06           19.98
2001                      11.84            2.65           5.44          2.05            0.06           22.04
2002                      13.56            2.65           5.62          2.22            0.07           24.12
2003                      13.94            2.65           5.82           2.39           0.07           24.87
2004        14.45          1.00            2.65           6.03          2.58            0.07           (2.12)
2005       20.54           2.20            2.65           6.24          2.79            0.08           (6.58>
2006         6.50          3.60            2.65           6.45           3.01           0.08            9.29
2007        6.50           5.20            2.65           6.67           3.25           0.08           11.35
2008        6.50           7.00            2.65           6.91           3.52           0.08           13.65
2009        6.50          17.40            2.65           7.16           3.80           0.09           24.60
2010         3.57         20.32            2.65           7.42          4.10            0.09           31.01
2011                      23.24            2.65           7.68          4.43            0.09           38.09
2012                      26.35            2.65           7.96          4.78            0.10           41.84
2013                      30.07            2.65           8.24          5.16            0.10           46.22
2014                      29.80            2.65           8.54          5.58            0.11           46.68
2015                      29.52            2.65           8.85          6.02            0.11           47.15
2016                      29.04            2.65           9.18          6.51            0.11           47.49
2017                      30.08            2.65           9.51          7.03            0.12           49.39
2018                                       2.65           9.87          7.S9            0.12           20.23
2019                                       2.65          .0.23          8.20            0.13           21.21
2020                                       2.65          10.61          8.85            0.13           22.24
0%       319.59         835.28           79.S0         199.89        107.64            2.42          905.14
10X       255.2ù         364.88           22.71          45.44         18.29           0.54           196.66
III         23.5%



- 108 -
Annex 6
Table 14
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SE£CM  RAILWAY PROJECT
Setif-El Gourzi 1103.3 ka>
alUe Cost Analvsls
(DA million)
Benet1ts                    _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Projeet                          Rtolling
Investment    Deferred         Routine        Tine        A.>iDd           Stock         Net
Cost       H 1ntenance    Ma1ntenance    Savings    Derailnts    baintenanci          LSat_
1988
1989      149.72         30.72                                                                  (119.00)
1990      lS0.01         36.78                                                                  (113.23)
1991                    43.05            3.12          1.30         0.85            0.05          48.37
1992                    49.11            3.12          1.34         0.92            0.05          54.54
1993                     55.38           3.12          1.37          1.00           0.05          60.92
1994                    61.44            3.12          1.41          1.08           0.06          67.11
199S                    67.50            3.12          1.45          1.17           0.06          73.30
1996                    73.77            3.12          1.49          1.27           0.06          79.71
1997                    85.89            3.12          1.53          1.38           0.06          91.98
1998                    110.55           3.12          1.57          1.49           0.07         116.80
1999                     9.93            3.12          1.62          1.62           0.07          16.36
2000                     11.84           3.12          1.66          1.76           0.07          18.45
2001                     13.94           3.12          1.72          1.90           0.07          20.75
2002                     15.85           3.12          1.76          2.06           0.08          22.87
2003                     17.95           3.12          1.81          2.24           0.08          25.20
2004       35.17          2.89           3.12          1.87          2.43           0.08         (24.77)
2005        7.64         4.23            3.12          1.98          2.85           0.09           4.63
2007        7.64          6.11           3.12          2.03          3.09           0.10           6.80
2008        7.64          8.22           3.12          2.09          3.35           0.10           9.24
2009        7.64         20.50           3.12          2.16          3.63           0.10          21.87
2010        3.83         23.82           3.12          2.22          3.94           0.11          29.39
2011                     27.34           3.12          2.29         4.27            0.11          37.13
2012                     30.89           3.12          2.35         4.62            0.12          41.10
2013                     35.34           3.12          2.42          S.01           0.12          46.01
2014                     35.14           3.12          2.49         5.43            0.13          46.31
2015                     34.70           3.12          2.57          5.89           0.13          46.41
2016                     34.21           3.12          2.64         6.38            0.14          46.49
2017                     35.21           3.12          2.72         6.92            0.14          48.11
2018                                     3.12          2.81         7.50            0.15          13.58
2019                                     3.12          2.89         8.13            0.15          14.29
2020                                     3.12          2.98         8.82            0.16          15.08
gf1
0%       376.95       984.93           93.60         60.46       103.63            2.85         868.52
10%       301.97       429.68           26.74         14.30        17.17            0.62         186.54
£81          21.5%



- 109 -
Annex 6
Table 15
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
El Hadiar-Bouchegouf (44.5 kna
Base Cost Analysis
(DA million>
Beneits
Project                                                                     Rolling
Investment    Deferred          Routine        Time          Avoided          Stock            ">t
Cost       Maintenance    Maintenance    Savings    Derailments    1airnnDan                hUl
1988
1989
1990      120.41          12.71                                                                     <107.70
1991                      15.36            1.34          0.69            1.67           0.03          19.09
1992                      17.83            1.34          0.71            1.76           0.03          21.67
1993                      20.48            1.34          0.73            1.84           0.03          24.42
1994                      22.95            1.34          0.75            1.94           0.03          27.01
1995                      25.61            1.34          0.76            2.04           0.03          29.78
1996                      28.07            1.34          0.78            2.14           0.03          32.36
1997                      30.54            1.34          0.80            2.25           0.03          34.96
1998                      35.66            1.34          0.82            2.37           0.03          40.22
1999                      45.90            1.34          0.84            2.49           0.03          50.60
2000                       4.20            1.34          0.87            2.61           0.03           9.05
2001                       5.16            1.34          0.89            2.75           0.03           10.17
2002                       5.92            1.34          0.91            2.89           0.03           11.09
2003                       6.88            1.34          0.93            3.03           0.03          12.21
2004                       7.64            1.34          0.96            3.19           0.03          13.16
2005       26.98           9.10            1.34          0.98            3.35           0.04         (12.17)
2006         3.27         10.47            1.34          1.00            3.52           0.04           13.09
2007         3.27          7.92            1.34          1.03            3.70           0.04          10.76
2008         3.27          2.62            1.34           1.05           3.89           0.04           5.66
2009         3.27          3.52            1.34          1.08            4.09           0.04           6.80
2010         3.27          8.73            1.34          1.11            4.30           0.04          12.25
2011                      10.29            1.34          1.14            4.52           0.04          17.33
2012                      11.66            1.34          1.16            4.75           0.04          18.95
2013                      13.32            1.34           1.19           4.99           0.04          20.88
2014                      1S.09            1.34           1.22           5.24           0.04          22.93
2015                      15.14            1.34          1.25            5.51           0.OS          23.29
2016                      14.89            1.34          1.28            5.79           0.OS          23.35
2017                      14.55            1.34           1.3?           6.09           0.05          23.35
2018                                       1.34          1.35            6.40           0.05           9.14
2019                                       1.34           1.38           6.72           0.05           9.49
2020                                       1.34           1.42           7.07           0.05           9.88
0%       163.75        422.19            40.20         30.40          112.90           1.12         443.05
10%       129.84         183.27           12.63          8.12           25.40           0.31          99.90
mg            22.4%



- 110 -
Tabla 16
ALGERI
STAFF APAISAL REPUT
51f I Mr!LMY PROMCT
chaeuf -S uk Ahras t4àLq kul
toCt Analys1s
(DA million)
Project                                                        Roll3n9
Investuent   Deferred     Routine      T1-e       Avoided        Stock       "et
Cost     k.lntnanca   Mainntenance   Sav1nas   DaralUnts   Ha.ntance    £ati
1988
1989
1990     124.47      13.18                                                        (111.28)
1991                 lS.90          1.38        2.56       4.45          0.03       24.32
1992                 18.42          1.38        2.63       4.69          0.03       27.15
1993                 21.13          1.38        2.69       4.91          0.03       30.14
1994                 23.66          1.38        2.76       5.17          0.03       33.00
1995                 26.37          1.38        2.83       5.44          0.03       36.05
1996                 29.08          1.38        2.90       5.71          0.03       39.10
1997                 31.61          1.38        2.97       6.00          0.03      41.99
1998                 36.84          1.38        3.05       6.37          0.04      47.68
1999                 47.50          1.38        3.12       6.64          0.04      58.68
2000                  4.39          1.38        3.20       6.96          0.04       15.97
2001                  5.35          1.38        3.28       7.33          0.04       17.38
2002                  6.11          1.38        3.36       7.71          0.04       18.60
2003                  7.07          1.38        3.45       8.08          0.04       20.02
2004                  7.83          1.38        3.53       8.51          0.04       21.29
2005     35.32        9.31          1.38        3.62       8.93          0.04      (12.04)
2006      3.38       10.89          1.38        3.71       9.39          0.04       22.02
2007      3.38       12.38          1.38        3.81       9.87          0.04       24.09
2008      3.38       14.93          1.38        3.90      10.37          0.05       27.25
2009      3.38        3.64          1.38        4.00      10.91          0.05       16.60
2010      3.38        9.07          1.38        4.10      11.47          0.05       22.69
2011                 10.65          1.38        4.20      12.05          0.05       28.33
2012                 12.04          1.38        4.31      12.67          0.05       30.45
2013                 13.73          1.38        4.41      13.31          0.05       32.88
2014                 15.53          1.38        4.52      13.97          0.05       35.45
2015                 15.55          1.38        4.64      14.69          0.05       36.31
2016                 15.46          1.38        4.75      15.44          0.06       37.09
2017                 15.08          1.38        4.87      16.24          0.06      37.63
2018                                1.38        4.99      17.07          0.06      23.50
2019                                1.38        5.12      17.92          0.06      24.48
2020                                1.38        5.25      18.85          0.06      25.54
OX      176.71     452.71         41.40       112.53    301.12          1.31      732.36
10%      136.00     192.45         13.01       30.06      67.76         0.3S       167.64
27.4%



- 111 -
ANNEX 7
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Financial Details



- 112 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SNTF Revenue/Cost Comparisons 1986
Basis: (i)    Notional income accounts 1986;
(ii)    Impact of latest tariff increase 1986 for full year;
(iii)    Depreciation based on replacement cost of all investments
(cost to community).
Note:         Depreciation on new lines (which will gradually come into
operation from 1987 on) has been reduced to a token
allocation commensurate with the light traffic expected.
Also the depreciation on infrastructure in operation has been
assessed on its marginal cost estimated at 30Z.
Cost     Tariff
DA per Traffic Unit    Recovery  Increase
Revenue   Cost        Factor   required (<)i'
Iron Ore                  0.117      0.379     0.31       224
Phosphate                 0.090      0.355     0.25       294
Other                     0.317      0.550      0.58        74
Subtotal Freight      0.254      0.496     0.51        95
Passengers                0.163      0.231     0.71        42
Total            0.217     0.388      0.56        79
' To reach a 100 percent operating ratio or zero net return.



STAff fULAL IU 
s[c0 AILMAY PLIECT
SlTF - xtm      o tmUTs >970 -  986
DA NilltIei
W!  9W  7L                              W S*o !      1   W  W9  8- 2      IX        I9                  45L|  
IRAFFIC
1.  Pass - Suburban                 15.1             26.0             22.0            20.0             IA                               llaA                MA
- Long Ostance            17L2            12148           2M.2             163                l              I                M                   M
- S/TOTAL                         194.5            220.8            230.2           189.3            257.9            236.4            265.1            les.9
State Contrtbution                        3.5              3.5                            - _                                                                  12.
- S/TOTAL PASS                   1>9.0             224.1            233.7           189.3            257.9            216.4            265.1            317.9
2.  Fretght - FCL                          443.0            407.4           656.9             491.1           471.2            S10.3             SS2.4            616.0
3. hmages                            0.0              0.0              0.7              0.6             0.6              *.S             0.6                .SI
Parcels                          9.6             12.1             13.1             12.4            12.3             13.7             15.0              14.0
Sai)                          I.AL4 C.2                                         142.                             Li              -LA                1
- S/TOTAL LCLt11.1                                  14.1             15.0             14.2             WI.o            16.9              18.4            17.0
4.  Storage. etc.                            2i              512              12.              ILJ              ffi             UA -52               1           -.11.1
- S/TOTAL TIAFFIC                 692.0            778.5           804.7            745.8            791.7            816.1            092.0            1421.1
OIHER REVEXUE                                  31.2             33.9            IS.5             41.1             40.6             11.4             42.1             317.0
STATE OPERATING SUOSIDY                         151             104.6            am9              mi4             2.              2A                2A1             .2261
TOTAL REVtXUE                   1là.7            917.0           928.1            067.2           1089.7           1011.0           1172.1            1206.1
WIIMG EXPENSES
1. Staff                                   S22.9            593.S            623.2            73O.S           822.1            5SS.1             911.6           lfté.0
2. Naterials. fuel. Etc.                     91.0            120.0           144.8             97.4            ISS.o           147.0             192.4            204.6
3. Other                                     11.0             15.I            17.8             19.8             14.4            12.4              IS.0             30.2
4.  Tax on - Traffic                S2.3             49.9             S2.0             55.3            46.0             71.S             74.T             10".
- StafF                 20.1             25.3             26.4             31.0             39.7            18.7             39.4              54.5
- Othor                  21a. 2.1                        2LU               2ai              2.              21               2à.2               1.
S/TOTAL TAX            _.                         29               .              IIL.             1.18.2           13.                       .--
TOTAL ICIIG EXPEXSES                           719.0           034.6            U7.6              64.0           1102.S          111.1             1260.            1462.9
OEPRECIATIè                                    9.9             112. 12                          112.1            1112            21.               211.I
TOTAL OtRATIIIG EXPENSES                          .                            1                11112U4          132                               14».6    j7
MET OPERATING REVEMUE                            0.4            t30.41          t93.71          t238.91          <1".9.          <212.2>           t01.5          t446.71
FINANCIAL CUAIES:
Interest Ext. Oebt               72.3             47.4             42.0            53.0             40.2             34.2             28.2              27.8
interest lnt. bobt                0.6              5.0             10.3             14.2            12.6             28.7             S4.2              41.4
Othwr Financla) Charges          12.2              .i              LL2              110             211              5.                2 S
TOTAL FINANCIAL CHAGES                 22.1             6.                  1             iLl. 6LS                         11.5            11L6             117. 
met Loss After Interest                  <91.7>          198.21          <1S7.2)          <324.1>          t279.51         (Us.17            IUS.1I           <611.41   :  Z
Met Mon-Operatsng Inco./tobs               Li              nu1.1            Li             u                                    î1   t         1ai                       - t
met BOf cit                             (<0.9>             07-.4)        <S1.1)           <356.2)          <259.1)         (426.2)           <510.11            79.0        ,
M>RKIMG RATIO                                   es               91              96              111              101             1t6                IU               114
IIINNlNG RATIO <EXCLUOIUG S4USlDY)             100              103              106             123              132              13t 13S                            114
OtiRATING RATIO                                100              103              110             125              118              12S              126               lis
(PItAIINC RATIO IEXCLUOING SUJSIOY)            113              117              121             141              ISS              164              15                163



ALGERA
STAFF APPIAISAL REPORT
LSMII RAILIAY PELIECT
SU]F - RALANCE SIEET 1979 - 1906
DA Million
1 9  79         1 *  à  O            9  a  1        1 9  6  2              1 9            à     4   198S!9R6
CURRENT ASSETS
CASN - BANKS                                 95.7           116.3             92.6           166.6            208.4            161.3      19.7                     93.1
RECEIVABLES - COMERCIAL            469.9            650.3           771.2            912.2           826.6            849.2            11  1            1210.6
-OTHER                 13.8             4.6              0.0             10.1            10.0             12.5            îî.1              115.6
-SUSPENSE             118.1U 4                         122L2            18.2            111.2           24&L            2112,               1. i1.
- S/TOTAL                      643.7           786.3            919.2           96 .a           1017.8           1106.7           1362.9            1512.3
INVENORIES                                  MLI             ziLI            nia              2.i              181.            LIL.I              1,              4IL. 
TOTAL CURENT ASSETS                     92.5             1163.9           1321.5          1510.2           1687.3          1783.1            12.7              2022.S 
FIXED ASSETS
TRACK - RELATES  INVESTNEUTS      1964.9           2090.7          2373.5           3015.6          4518.0           6262.6          8023.4            18229.6
LESS ACCRUED DEPRECIATION          112.             112.2           iI..I            112.!           ZIL              ZIMA            JfilI 
- S/TOTAL                        1812.3           1933.8          2207.7           2829.2          4281.2           567.0            7671.6            9866.0
ROLLING STOCK. ETC.               2385.9           2408.2          2552.3           2919.9           3248.2          3411.6           3678.7            4634.7
11SS ACCOUES SEPRtECIATION         112.             MlA             112.             112.1           21431            81.11           927IZZ...I
- S/TOTAL                        1966.7           1932.7          1997.7           2280.8          2504.6           2601.5           2751.7            3543.7
OTIIER FIXES ASSETS                         2iA               LO,            141..           222.2            41131           UIZ.              7S7L2
TOTAL NET FIXES ASSETS                     3873.9          3984.5           4346.7          5316.7           7218.9          9192.5           111 8.5           14217.9
IMINVTENTS                                   LA               LA               2.              la2              1.5             11            ..1-L-i
TOTAL ASSE                              4874.3           5148.9          S566.9           6829.8           8909.4         10978.7           11076.3           16243.5
LIA8ILITIU
CUIRENT LIADILITIES
CREDITORS                          218.4            377.6           424.7            982.9           1143.1          1519.0           1705.1             2861.7
SUSPENSE                           122.1            129.1           426.1             902.3          657.             215A           1123.1              747.2
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                596.7            666.0           850.8           1573.2           1800.5          2234.6            2820.2            3688.9
PUOVISIONS                                    2.0            12.0             22.0             2.0              2.0             2.0   4S.         2.0   4361        2.8
LONG TERN SERT. INTEMAL           1668.7           1954.1          2283.0           2528.1          3004.4           3257.6           3456.3            4326.1
LONG TEfI REIT. EXTEINAL          8S4L1             124.1           S71I             1321.           111.1            18.             .1812.             J2L
TOTAL LONG TE     T ERAT                  2472.8           2648.1           2854.8          3060.7           3441.7          3741.8            3866.5            4454.6
EOUITY ANS RESERVES                       1 Ul2.           1822.8           19412.          219329           3665.2          so44.3            6311.5           AILO.O
TOTAL LIAD RLITIES                      4874.3           5140.9           5668.9          6829.8           0909.4         10978.7           13076.3           16243.5    e
CURRENT RATIO                                 1.68            1.7S             1.55            0.96             0.94            0.00              0.70              0.56
LIQUID RATIO                                  1.24            1.36             1.19            0.72             0.68            8.67               .49              0.43 
OEOT/EOUITY RATIO                              51/49          S/49             50/50           49/S1            48/S2        43/57              3J/62                31/6&



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECI
SNTF - Investment Finandina 1979 - 1985
(DA Million)
Accrued                                                                                            Accrued    Lons-Tere
Oebt
l2/31/7a    lm        lm         lm         lm         lm                                          12u n1      121fluai
Unreimbursable State Contribution              45.9       43.6      107.5      269.8      608.7    1735.4    1760.1    1824.3    2612.2           9007.S
to Investment
Long-Term Sorrowing:
IBRD 996-AL                               196.0                                                                                                196.0       128.5
Other External Credits                    950.9                                                                                                95919       7241.
Subtotal External                   1146.9                                                                                               1146.9       852.6
B.A.D.                                   1267.4      108.1       80.4     204.1       280.7      334.4      334.5       72.4       79.5       2761.5      2608.6
Banque Nationale d'Algérie - BNA            5.6                                                                        133.9       25.8        16S.3       159.8
Treasury                                   37.6                                                                                                 37.6         -
Treasury (Inventories Financing)         251.1                                                                                                 251.1       158.8 &    "
Bridging Credits                                      98.       220.0      150.8                 1S5.7       68 9       31.3       52.2        779s        674. 
Subtotal Internal                  6151.7       206.7      300.4      354.9      280.7      4S0.1      403.4      239.6      157.5       399S.0      3602.0
Total Long-Term Borrowing           270EL6                                                                                                           4454.6
Self-Financing                            il,.                                                                                                  11-7
TOTAL SOURCES                           2766.2      250.3       407.9     624.7      889.4    2225.5    2163.5    2063.9    2769.7           14161.1
Infrastructure                                588.8       66.2      122.6      282.8      642.1    1502.4    1684.1    1636.9    2206.3           8732.2
Rolling Stock, Equipuent                     1865.1       34.7       62.6      165.4      392.8      349.1      351.1      422.1      648.8       4291.7
Studies                                        68.7       23.6       23.1       23.2       65.5      226.4      190.1      133.9      111.0        86S.5
Inventories                                   217.6       42.9        0.8       48.4       65.1       86.4       53.8        b.C   _ 160L.R        456.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      2740.2       167.4      209.1      519.8    1165.5    2164.3    2279.1    2193.9    2906.1           14345.5
BALANCE                                    26.0       82.9      198.8      104.9    (276.1)      61.7    (161.6)   (130.0)   (136.4)
olt



- 116 -
ANNEX 7 - Table 5
Page 1 of S
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
5ECOND RAILWAY PROXECT
SNTF - FORECAST INCOHE ACCOUNTS  19&7-1991
(DA MILLION)
Revenue                                                  1lmZ       1oa8      1289      1990      1991
Tr;ffic Revenue
Iron Ore                                                71        73        74        75        76
Phosphate                                               37        37        37        37        37
Fre1ght                                                637       669       682       707       729
Passengers                                             341       350       359       367       377
Subtotal                                    1,086    1,128    1,151       1.185    1.219
Tariff Increases in        1988      20%                         226       230       237       244
1989     10%                                    138       142       146
1990     10%                                              156       161
1991     10%                                                        177
Baggage. Parcels. Mail                                  17        16        15        14        13
Storage. etc.                                           56        62        68        75        82
Subtotal Traffic Revenue                           1,159    1.432    1.602    1.810    2.041
Other Revenue                                             40        40        40        40        40
State Operating Subsidy
for Track Maintenance                                  235       337       340       342       345
Total Revenue                                          1,434    1,809    1,982    2.192    2.426
Working Expenses
Staff                                                  1,076    1,049    1.033    1.016    1,018
Job Classification (SGT)                                  90
Materials. etc.                                           205      211       216       221       227
Other                                                      30       30        30        30        30
Tax                                                       162      200       224       253       286
Total Work1ng Expenses                                 ',563    1,491    1.503    1.520   1561
Depreciation
On Gross Fixed Assets (12/31/86>
Infrastructure                                                                       198       198
New Lines                                                                              1         2
Rolling Stock. etc.                                    195       195       19S       253       253
Subtotal                                       195      195       195       452       453
On New Investments
Infrastructure                                          69        69        69        33        42
New Lines                                                                              1         2
Rolling Stock. etc.                                     12        25        36        49        62
Subtotal                                       81        94       105        83       106
Total Depreclation                                       276       289       300       535       559
Operating Expenses                                       1,839    1,780    1.803    2,055    2,120
Net Operattng RevenueiLoss                                 (405)      29       179       137       306
Interest On:
Oebt at December 31, 1986                                 i33      174       147       145       120
New Borrowing                                             156       52        75        96       120
Total Interest                                           289       226       222       241       240
Revenue/Loss After Interest                                (694)    (197)      (43)    (104)        66
Corporate Tax                                                                                      <33>
State Substdy as per
Restructuration Financiere                              (694)    (197)
Working Ratio                                          109        82        76        69        64
Operat1ng Ratio                                        128        98        91        94        87
Worktng Ratio (excl. oper. sub.)                       130       101        92        82        75
Operat1ng Ratio (excl. oper. sub.)                     153       121       110       111       102



- 117 -
ANNX 7 - Table 5
Page 2 of 5
ALGERIA
Staff Appraisal Reporc
Second Railway Proiect
Assumptions used to forecast SNTF's Income Accounts 1987-1991
A. Revenue
1.       Traffic and revenue for 1987 have been calculated as follows:
Ton-km or     Receipt per         Annual
pass-km    ton-km or pass-km      Revenue
(Million)          (DA)         (DA Million)
Iron Ore                610     x     0.117                 71
Phosphate               410     x     0.090                 37
Other Freight          2010     x      0.317               637
S/Total                3030                                745
Passenger              2090     x     0.163                341
Total                  5120                               1086
2.       Passenger and freight traffic has been increased by 2.5% over the
period 1987-91.
3.       Tariff increases for freight and passengers globally applied, are
provided for as follows:
20% as from 1/1/88
102 as from 1/1/89
10% as from 1/1/90
10% as from 1/1/91
4.       Revenue from baggages, parcels and mail is expected to decrease by
about 5Z p.a.
5.       Revenue from storage and from penalties for undue retention of
freight cars is to increase by about 10% p.a.
6.       Other revenue (rentals, etc.) remains, as in the past, at about
DA 40 million annually.
7.       The State operating subsidy is expected to remain in 1987 at its
level of 1983-86. Provision is made for a DA 100 million increase as from
1988 so as to cover annual actual track maintenance expenses (about
DA 300 million).



- 118 -
ANNEX 7 - Table 5
Page 3 of 5
B. Workinm Expenses
8.       Staff productivity is expected to increase (see Plan of Action,
Annex 1) and staff numbers to decrease as follows:
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
Traffic Units (TU) Million    5120        5285      5390       5530      5670
Staff Productivity (TU 000)    290         305       315        330       330
Staff Numbers at end of FY   17655       17328     17111      16758     17182
The payroll has been calculated on the basis of average numbers of staff as
below:
1/1/87    1/1/88    1/1/89    1/1/90    1/1/91
Actual number                 19150
less INFRAFER                   950
18200     17328      17111     i6758      17182
Average staff                 17925      17492     17219      16934     16970
Cost per staff (DA 000)          60         60        60         60        60
Payroll (DA Million)           1076       1049      1033       1016      1018
9.       The job classification provided for by the SGT has not yet been
completed; the estimated additional cost is DA 90 million, to be paid in
1987.
10.      Materials, fuels, etc. have been estimated at the present level of
DA 40 million per billion TU, as follows:
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
TU (Million)                  5120      5285       5390      5530       5670
Materials,     (DA Million)   205         211       216        221       227
11.      "Other" working expenses are expected to remain at their present
level of about DA 30 million.
12.      The present level and structure of taxation is expected to remain
unchanged over the period 1987-91; it amounts to 142 of gross traffic
revenue.



- 119 -
ANNEX 7 - Table 5
Page 4 of 5
C. Depreciation
13.      The present depreciation system based on historical cost provides
for:
(a) about 4% on rolling stock, etc.; and
(b)  3% on infrastructure investments made during the fiscal year,
an allocation applied only once.
This sytem is expected to remain in use until FY1990, when the revaluation
of fixed assets on a replacement cost basis vill be completed.   For the
period 1987-89 calculations are as follows:
(DA Million)             31/12/86  1987       1988       1989
(a)  Infrastructure
(incl. new lines)
Investments to be made              2300      2300       2320
at 3%                                 69         69        69
(b)  Rolling stock, etc.
Book value                 4635    4635       4935       5235
Investment to be made                300       300        265
Total                               4935      5235       5500
at 4.2%                     195      207        220       231
14.      For the period 1990-91 depreciation is calculated on replacement
cost as explained hereafter:
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
(a) Existing gross fixed assets
as of December 31, 1986
(i)   Infrastructure in
operation
Replacement value                                  30430  30430
at 2.17% x 30%                                       198    198
(ii) New lines
A token allocation                                     1       2
(iii) Rolling stock, etc.
Replacement value                                   6031   6031
at 4.2%                                                    253    253



- 120 -
ANN5X 7 - Table 5
Page 5 of 5
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
(b) New investments
(i)   Infrastructure in
operation
Investments to be made       1300   1300   1230   1300   1300
Accrued value                                       5130   6430
at 2.17S x 302                                        33     42
(ii)  New lines
A token allocation                                     1       2
(iii) Rolling stock, etc.
Investments to be made        300    300    265    300    315
Accrued value                                       1165   1480
at 4.22                                               49     62
D. Interest
15.      Interest charges on new borrowing have been  calculated  on  the
following assumptions:
(a)  Finaucing  of  rolling  stock program 1987-1991 amounting to
DA 1480 million thru borrowing at 8S p.a., over 18 years,
including three years of grace;
(b) Lending by Treasury of DA 650 million as of January 1, 1988
at 2 1/2S p.a., over 15 years, including three years of
grace; (restructuration financière)
(c) Bank overdraft, at 8S p.a.
On above assumptions the debt service of new borrowing would be as below
(DA million):
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Principal    Rolling Stock                                     55      55
Restructuration Fin.                              50     51
Bank Overdraft                   1700
S/Total                          1700            105    106
Interest     Rolling Stock               12     36      59     81    106
Restructuration Fin.        8      16     16      15     14
Bank Overdraft            136                           _
S/Total                   156      52     75      96    120
Debt Service                            156   1752      75    201    226



- 121 -
ANNEX 7 - Table 6
ALGERA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
«OSEg   RUILWAY PROtJCT
NSTF - Évaluation of Fixed Assets ln Use *t Realac_nt Colt
an And   al DOormciation Allowane
-------------US$ mllion -------------
Annual
Depreciation    Depreciation
Value         Rat           Allowane
Infrastructure
Track -  2694 km. St. G. at $1 .000.000/km         2694       2/3 at 1%            18.0
1/3 at 5%           44.9
-  1112 km. N.G. at $700.000/km.              778         2.33%              18.1
-  200 km. doubling at $700.000/km            140         2.33%               3.3
S/Total                                 3612
-  25% of above fo;' stations. sidings        903         2.33%             21.0
-  tunnels and bridges                       1000         1%                 10.0
-  electrificatlon 298 km at $600.000         179         2%                  3.6
-  other constructions                        100         1%                  1.0
-  signalling and telecommunîcations          250         4%                 10.0
-  maintenance shops and depots               300       40% at 1%             1.2
60% at 5%            9.0
-  service buildings and housing             2U           1%
S/Total           83%                   6544       aver. 2.17%         142.1
Mot1ve Power. Rolling Stock. Eauiment
-  208 locomotives at $1.100.000              229         4%                  9.'
-  25 shunters at $800.000                     20         4%                  0.8
-  665 coaches at $400.000                    266         4%                 10.6
-  32 railcars at $1.000.000                   32         6.66%               2.1
-  13.000 cars at $SO.000                     650         4%                26.0
-  varlous equlpment                          100         SX 5%
S/Total           17%                   12m       aver. 4.14%            S
Total                                  7841                           195.8



122 -
A<M   7 - table 7
STAFF APPeAISAL R11>0T
IRl IA1LhAY PIROCT
sUiF -  Bf  £11 APPLiCtIS  F   LS    9- lui1
(DA MILLION)
lm!      au        un2    1m         lm1  1a7 si
SOURCES cf FLIOS
met Oprating Revenue/Loss                       (405)       29       179      137       273      312
Depreciation                                      276       289       300      sis       SS9    l,9S9
lnternally C nerated Cash                        (129)      318      479       672      832    2.171
Décrease ln Receivables                            46        50        25      118                239
Decrease In Inventories                            46        41        45                         132
Partial Reinburs _nt OObt S rv1ce
(Loan 996-AL)
Principal & Interest 1988/91                               74        1S       1S        15      119
Governmunt Investment Contributions             2.300    2.300    2.320    2.300    2,300   ll.S20
Uorrow1ng                                          300      300       265      300       315    1,480
Restructurat1on Financ1ere:
Treasury Lend1ng                                          650                                   650
Deficit Subsidization                           694       197                                   891
Government Special Contribution                         1.000                                 1.000
Bank Overdraft                                  1.700                                           1.700
TOTAL                                4.957    4.930    3.149    3.405    3.462   19,903
APPLICATION OF FNWOS
Infrastructure                                  1.300    1.300    1.230    1.300    1,300    6.430
New Llfes                                       1.000    1.000    1.090    1.000    1.000    5.090
Roll1ng Stock                                      300      300       265      300       315    1.480
Investmnt Program                               2.600    2.600    2.585    2.600    2.615   13.000
Debt Service
On 0ebt st 12/31/86
Principal                                       238       287      295       280       270    1.370
Interest                                        133       174      147       145       120      719
On New Borrowlng
Principal                                                                    105       106      211
Interest                                        156        52       75        96       120      499
Total Debt Service                                   S27      513       517      626       616    2.799
net Current Assets Shortfall
*t 12/31/86                                   1,586                                           1.586
Zncrease ln Rece1vables                                                                     35       35
Increase ln Inventories                                                            8         9       17
Zncrease ln Working Capital
Requ1rements                                       174       41        26       31        35      306
Relmbursenent of Bank Overdraft                             1.700                                 1.700
TOTAL                                4.887    4.854    3.128    3,265    3,309   19.442
BALANCE
70       76        21      140       153      461
MM:  Progressive reduction of eommercial rece1vables. so as not to exceed 3/12th of the annual
freight trafflc revenue from 1990. on: progressive reduction of inventories so as not to
exceed 18 months of annually consumed materials fron 1989 on; reimbursement by Government to
SNTF of 70X of the debt service of Bank Loan 996-AL and impleuentatlon  of the financial
measures under the  Restructuration Financière.  The cash flow also takes Into consideration
a substantial Bank overdraft In 1987. to be repaid ln 1988. to bridge SNTF's cash squeeze
untll 1mplementation of the financial restructuring ln 1988. It 1s also assumed that
Governmnnt contributes to Infrastructure investments would continue and deprec1at1on is basec
on the core 1nvestment program 1985   89 with mounts of saie magnitude for 1990 and 1991.
Cash and banks have been kept at 1SX of trafflc revenue.



- 123-
ANNEX 7 - Table 8
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SNTF - FORECAST BALANCE SHEET 19S7-1991
(DA MILLION)
1n8u           lm7        18m      18m         lm90    1U1
as pre-   correc-
sented       ted
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                              54           54      298        215        240        272        306
Rece1vables
Com urcial                             1.212         495       449        399        374        256        290
Other                                    300         300       300        300        300        300        300
Inventories                                456         456       410        369        324        332        341
TOTAL CURRENT ASSENTS               2,022       1.305    1,457       1.283      1.283      1.159      1.237
Infrastructure                           1.223      30.430   31.730    33.030    34.260    35.560    36,860
less Depreciation                          424         424       493        562        631        862      1.102
Subtotal                        799      30.006   31.237    32.468    33.629    34.698    35.758
New Ltnes                                9,007       9.007   10.007    11.007    12.097    13.097    14.097
less Depreciation                                                  0          0          0          2          6
Subtotal                      9,007       9.007   10.007    11.007    12,097    13.095    14.091
Rolling Stock. etc.                      4.635       6,031    6,331       6.631      6,896      7,196      7.511
less Oepreciation                        1,091       1,091    1.298       1.518      1,749      2.051      2 3p6
Subtotal                      3.544       4,940    5.033       5.113      5,147      5.145      5.145
Other Fixed Assets                         868          868      868        868        868        868        868
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                  14.218      44.821   47.145    49.456    51,741    53.806    55.862
Investments                                   3           3        3          3          3          3          3
TOTAL ASSETS                       16,243      46.129   48.605    50.742    52,982    54,968    57,102
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                      3.608       2.891    1.305       1.10S      1,084        943        790
Provisions                                    2           2        2          2          2          2          2
Long-Term Debt
Oebt existing on 12/31/86            4.455       4.455    4.217       3,930      3,635      3.355      3.085
New Debt                                                   2.000      1.250    lS5S        1,710      1.919
Subtotal                      4,455       4.455    6,217       5.180      S.150      5.065      5.004
Equity, Reserves. Accrued Losses         8.178      38.781   41.081    44.455    46.747    48.957    51,305
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  16,243      46.129   48.605    50.742    52,982    54.968    57,102
CURRENT RATIO                          0.56        0.45      1.12       1.16       1.14       1.23       1.56
LIQUID RATIO                           0.43        0.29      0.80       0.83       0.84       0.88       1.13
OEBT/EQUITY RATIO                     35/65       10/90    13/87       10/90      10/90       9/91       9/91



- 124 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Cost Accounting - Terms of Reference
Background
1.       The   Algerian   Railway   (Société   Nationale   des   Transports
Ferroviaires - SNTF) is a semi-autonomous public enterprise under the
authority of the Ministry of Transport. Until January 1, 1977, it carried
out its function within the framework of a railway convention which
provided inter-alia for government compensation for below cost services and
subsidization of operating deficits.   In line with the Government revised
policies which called for revenue eerning public enterprises to operate
with less reliance on Government assistance the railway convention was
abrogated and not replaced by any institutional instrument redefining the
respective financial responsibilities of State and enterprise. Since then,
Government contributions to SNTF's operations have been limited to some
interest charges, vocational training costs and - since 1983 - the cost of
track maintenance.  On the capital side,  infrastructure  investments have
been financed by unreimbursable Government contributions, while rolling
stock, motive power, equipment, etc. have been financed by SNTF through
medium-and long-term borrowing.
2.       Low traffic, below-cost  tariffs, inadequate government compensa-
tion, and increasing working expenses, particularly payroll, have over the
years  deeply deteriorated SNTF's earnings'  position.   The Government  is
presently considering two concomitant actions, namely:
(a)  a major financial restructuring of SNTF to consolidate past
operating   deficits,   relieve  debt  service,   and  extend
additional borrowing; and
(b)  a new railway convention which would define the respective
responsibilities of State and enterprise with respect to
investments and debt service resulting thereof, and state the
principles of subsidization for:
(i)    below-cost tariffs;
(ii)    losses incurred on uneconomic lines and services;
(iii)    vocational training and level-crossing costs.



- 125 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
It is also expected that depreciation based on replacement cost for all
investments - regardlesa of their source of financing - vill have to be
dealt vith as a cost component for the assesument of tariffs and
compensation.
3.       The new railway convention can be operative only if reliable cost
accounting is available to substantiate SNTF's claims for compensation, and
that the methodology used to determine the amount of claims is fully
accepted by Government. The consulting services described in the following
are to provide such pricing tool.
Obiectives
4.       The  purpose  of  the  consulting  services  is  to assist  SNTF  in
setting up a comprehensive cost accounting system, including an updating
mechanism, which will permit Government and SNTF to determine the tariff
adjustments needed - or alternatively the compene'aiun required - at
various traffic levels to achieve an agreed return on railway invetitments.
The Cost Accounting System shall take into account the requirements of the
Plan Comptable National which is not yet fully implemented by SNTF and,
eventually,  the  Plan  Comptable  Analytique  National  presently  under
preparation.
5.       It is ultimately expected that the outcome of this assignment in
conjunction with the results of the National Transport Study to be
undertaken as part of the Bank-financed Fifth Highway Project will provide
the necessary data leading to the optimal distribution of traffic between
road and rail and preventing any distortion of traffic.
Scope of Services
6.       The  consultants  shall perform all  investigation  analyses,  and
other services herein described,  as required to attain the "objectives"
above.   In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall collaborate
closely vith SNTF, which will assign counterpart staff to work with the
consultants and will provide the "Data, Services and Facilities" described
in chapter 5 hereafter.   The  consultants  shall be  solely  responsible,
however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data and services
received, and  for  the  findings  and  recommendations  contained  in  their
reports.  The consultants shall also coordinate their vork and collaborate
closely with other consultants if any retained by SNTF for the improvement
of planning, management and operations.
7.       The cost accounting system to be developed will clearly identify
and segregate all costs related to major commodities carried and services
rendered by SNTF, namely:



- 126 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
(a) passengers:    long-distance and suburban traffic;  the latter in the
vicinity of Algiers, and eventually Oran and Constantine.
(b) freight:        iron  ore,  phosphate,  steel  products,  refined  oil,
cereals,   fertilizers,   cement  and  sugar;   including
"brouettage".
Conts will also be defined separately for standard and narrow-gauge lines,
and by main relations or routes.
8.       Coats will take into account the implications of the recently-
enacted Statut Général des Travailleurs - S.G.T., and its *mpact on SNTF's
working expenses. Also, the effects of the attrition policy carried out by
SNTF will be considered.
9.       Costs  will  also  be  corrected  to  take  into consideration  the
establishment of INFRAFER, and the progressive transfer to it of track
construction, periodic maintenance activities, and track overhaul except
for routine maintenance.
10.      The long-term marginal costs of commodities and services will be
I         :alculated and compared to fully distributed costs;  a broad assessment of
jvariations of long-term marginal costs per given levels of traffic will be
sade, as part of an updating mechanism.
1L.      Notvithstanding  the  depreciation  allocations  referred  to  in
para. 2, the Government may eventually decide that only part of the capital
ci'sts is to be recovered from revenue and that the other part of the
iitvestments serves general development purposes for which no immediate or
direct return is due. To assist the Government in deciding the respective
parts of capital costs earmarked for direct cost recovery the consultant
vill incorporate into costs three separate annual depreciation allowances
based on estimated replacement value for:
(a)  existing  infrastructure,   £ncluding  signalling  and  tele-
comnmunications on lines in full operation;
(b) same, on lines recently doubled or built where traffic is
expected to develop only progressively; for these lines
depreciation vill be calculated pro rata to annual traffic as
compared to total accumulated traffic for the expected
lifetime; and
(c) motive power, rolling stock, equipment, etc.



- 127 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
12.      The consultants will develop a tarif f structure based on their
cost findings which will allow for the following optional objectives:
(a)  recover  the  fully  distributed  cost  of  services  rendered
without cross-subsidization;
(b) earn a return on all railway investments; and
(c) provide cash resources to cover debt service.
Alternative tariff proposals will also be made to prevent dampening demand,
taking  into  account  the  findings  of  the  National  Transport  Study
consultants, and other possible constraints.
13.      In  studying  alternative   tariff  structures  and   levels   the
consultants will consider the possible advantages of modulating rates and
fares with distance, thus introducing a taper discount system.
14.      Concurrently with cost accounting the consultants will develop a
system of internal audit ensuring on a continuing basis the correctness and
validity of entries and procedures.
15.      A substantial part of the consulting services is expected to be
earmarked for training of SNTF's accounting and auditing staff, over a
period of at least one accounting cycle, e.g. one fiscal year to which is
added the time required for closing of account. The training program will
take into account the need for extending EDP methods.
Time Schedule and Reporting Requirements
16.      The consultants will mobilize their staff needed for the prepara-
tion of the conceptual report in Algiers within one month of the signing of
the consulting services contract; other staff will be mobilized in Algiers
within two month(s) after approval of the conceptual report.
17.      In the conduct of their assignment, the consultants will prepare
the following reports:
(a) a conceptual report (Schéma Directeur) to be issued within
three months of the signing of the Consulting Services
contract which will detail the objectives to be achieved and
their timing; the systems to be established; the organization
within which such systems will be developed; the hardware and
software  needed;   and  the  personnel  and  organizational
constraints likely to be encountered and their effect on the
timing of the consultants' assignment. Approval of such
"Schéma  Directeur"  by  SNTF  and  the  Bank  will  be  a



- 128 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
prerequisite for further action by the consultants.   Unless
othervise   agreed   between   the   parties--SNTF   and   the
Consultants--the   consulting   service   contract   vill   be
terminated   if,   two   months   after   issuance   of   the
"Schéma-Directeur" Report, no agreem-ont has been f inalized
with respect to the scope and limitations of the consulting
services;   (to be completed eventually with a compensation
clause in case of termination)
(b)  progress reports at two months intervals after approval of
the Conceptual Report covering; and
(c)  manuals covering appropriate accounting procedures.



- 130 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Transport Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
1.       In the transport sector, Algeria has received eight loans from the
Bank, for a total amount of US$615 million, to finance five projects for
roads, two for ports and one for railways.  The First, Second and Third
Highway Projects  (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL and 1683-AL) have been completed
and fully disbursed.   The implementation of the Fourth Highway  Project
(Loan 1892-AL), approved in 1980, is about two years behind schedule
because of delays in bidding and evaluating alternative bids for construc-
tion of a major component.  The Fifth Highway Project has recently been
signed and contracts have recently been awarded for a first-year program of
pavement strengthening and road maintenance.
2.       The First Highway Project (Loan 912-AL), comprising improvements
to 84 km of high priority road sections and a substantial program of
highway pre-investment and maintenance studies, resulted in (a) a highway
development plan based on an inventory of about 7,000 km of principal
roads; (b) detailed engineering for about 400 km of road rehabilitation;
and (c) a comprehensive study of road maintenance requirements (opera-
tional, management and institutional). The project on the whole went well
and served as the basis for the Second Highway Project (Loan 1407-AL),
under which organizational change, separating housing and urbanization
activity from highway infrastructure at the regional level, and reforms of
the  maintenance  organization  were  implemented.   In  skipport  of  this
institutional change, the training of operators and mechanics was started
while engineers and equipment managers were sent abroad for maintenance
related  training.   The  Ministry  of  Public  Works  (MPW)  also  gained
experience in International Competitive Bidding and in contract supervision
and management  of a major  road project.   However,  delays  in bidding,
rebidding, awarding contracts and obtaining approvals delayed project
completion three years.
3.       The Third Righway Project (Loan 1683-AL) supported (a) a two-year
tranche (1980-81) of a five-year maintenance program, with purchase of
equipment and continued training; (b) a two-year tranche of a paved road
strengtheninz  program,  which had been  prepared by technical assistance
under the Second Highway Project;  (c) technical assistance to MPW in the
preparation of feasibility studies for the development program; and
(d) another major north-south road improvement project.  Progress was made
in developing and equipping a force account maintenance work force (which



- 131 -
ANNEX9 9
Page 2 of 3
continued under the next highway project) against a background of
increasing decentralization and proliferation of regional authorities.
Both pavement  strengthening  and major road improvement vere delayed  in
starting by lengthy contract bidding and approval procedures as well as by
a major earthquake, which diverted resources from project contracts to
reconstruction.  In the end, inadequate management of one local contractor
also contributed to the delay in completion which totalled three years.
4.       The  Fourth  Highway  Project  (Loan 1892-AL)  is  ongoing.    It
comprised (a) continued support for the next two-year tranche of mainte-
nance (1982-83); (b) a second two-year tranche of pavement strengthening;
(c) improvement of a critical section of another major north-south road;
and (d) technical assistance for construction supervision, maintenance
training, assistance to the road construction industry and rural road
studies.  Delays have again stemmed from lengthy bidding and contract award
procedures and substantial construction quantity increases.   In addition,
recent developments have markedly changed the nature of the maintenance
organization, the force account equipment pools having been reorganized
into autonomous enterprises responsible for road maintenance. The project
civil works are expected to be completed by the end of 1988, two years
late.
5.       The  recently  signed  Fifth  Highway  Project  (Loan  2808-AL)  is
designed to address a number of  high priority matters  in  the  highway
sector.   The  pricing objectives of the project are to:  (a) reduce  the
backlog of pavement strengthening works; (b) rationalize planning and
control of this work; (c) improve planning and operational efficiency in
road maintenance; and (d) strengthen personnel management and training
functions in MPW, MOT and various transport enterprises. The project will
support (a) a two-year program (1987-88) of road rehabilitation and
contracted maintenance; (b) technical assistance and training to improve
the collection and use of road network data, planning and optimization of
pavement strengthening and road maintenance programs, as well as training
programs for transport enterprises and (c) to improve policy formulation
and project preparation in the transport sector.
6.       The Railway Project (Loan 996-AL), designed to support the rail-
way's modernization program within the 1974-77 Development Plan, consisted
mainly of renewal of motive power, rolling stock, rehabilitation of track
and technical assistance.  Execution of the physical  project components,
including  procurement  was  completed  on  schedule.   Several  important
studies, however, were not completed at the scheduled closing date which
was,  in consequence,  extended.   Disagreement  between  the Bank  and the
railways  concerning  the   upgrading   to  double   track   standard   the
Ramdane-Jamal  Constantine  line,  with  doubtful  justification,  led  to
cessation of Bank lending to the railway.



- 132 -
ANOEX 9
Page 3 of 3
7.       The  Bank  participated  in  financing a  major  port  at  Bethouia
(Lonn 995-AL),  designed  for  the export  of  Liquified Natural  Gas.   The
implementation of an envisaged Second Port Project at Jijel (Loan 1427-AL)
evaluated in 1976 did not materialize because of the postpone.ent of the
restoration  of  an  associJted  new  steel  complex.   The  loan  vas  then
cancelled in 1980.



- 134 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
List of Proiect File Documents
A.       Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Transport Sector Memorandum (White Caver), April 1982
A.2 Transport Sector Strategy Paper (Greeti Cover), October 8, 1987
A.3 Algeria: 1985-89 Development P'a-. and the medium- and
long-term projects (Grey Cover), September 30, 1987
B.       Selected Reports and Studies Related ro the Project
B.1  Comparaison des Améliorations Possibles sur la Ligne Minière,
SNCFA, Juillet 1974
B.2  Les Transports Ferroviaires dans la Région Algérienne, SNTF,
Mai 1976
B.3  Line-by--Line Distances between Stations, SNTF, July 1979
B.4  Computer Listings for Origin, Destination, Passenger and
Freight Traffic, SNTF 1986
B.5  A Votre Service, SNTF
B.6  Etude du Coût de Transports Marchandises, SNTF, 1985
B.7  Track Longitudinal Profiles:  - Annaba-Ghardimaou
- Alger-Constantine
- Annaba-Ramdane Jamel
B.8  Opération de Réhabilitation et Modernisation; sous-Détails
des Coûts d'Investissements et Plans d'Opérations, SNTF, 1987.
B.9  Termes de Référence de la Mise en Place d'une Gestion
Centralisée du Trafic Marchandises, SNTF, Janvier 1988.
B.10 Gestion Centralisée du Trafic Marchandises; Note
Méthodologique; SNTF, Janvier 1988.
C.       Selected Working Papers
C.1  SNTF Investment Program:  1985-89, April 1987
C.2  Analysis of Rail Traffic Data, Jean-Pierre Noel (Consultant),
April 1987
C.3  Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis,
Jean-Pierre Noel (Consultant), November 1987
C.4  Financial Evaluation, Jean de Gryse (Consultant),
July 14, 1987.



Table 1
- 136 -
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Rail Passenner Traffic
f Lsengars (million)
Suburb                  8.5       13.6       11.6     10.6      17.2      16.9     2S.4    37.7
Main Lines             14.4       16.4       18.      i.        16.8      IL       22.I    13.
Total                22.9       30.0      29.6      27.8      34.0     35.8      47.7    50.9
PK limllion)
Suburb                  175        263        231      216       333       333      486    1010
Main Lines             1704       1807       125      15i5      1471      1502     1515    1030
Total                1879       2070      2156      1774      1804      1835     2011    2040
Averace Distance (km)
Suburb                 20.6       19.3       19.9     20.4      19.4      19.7     19.1    26.8
Main Lines            118.6      110.2      106.9     90.6      87.6      79.5     68.4    78.0
Total                82.1       69.0      72.8      63.8      53.1     51.3      42.2    40.1
1   Change ln definition of suburban and main line passenger traffic.
Source: SNTF



-137-                                 Table 2
ALG£UI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Rail Fretght Traffle iFCLl
lmZ       lm8         1281       llm 1l8m 198                   1m          1986
Tons ('0003
Iron Ore                   3.273      3.479      3.188      3.594      3.551      3,229      3,436    3.10S
Phosphate                  1,125      1.082        927        999        915        927      1,272    1.146
Other                      4.6S3      5.769    6.578    6.612    6.774            7.311      7.a80    8.134
Total                    9,051     10.330    10,693    11.205    11.240    11.467    12,588   12,385
TK lmtlltonl
Iron Ore                     535        565        526        582        561        509        540       469
Phosphate                    382        369        317        339        309        316        435       393
Other                      1.545      1.508      1.821      1.808      176         ,0        203       204
Total                    2.462      2,442      2.664      2.729      2.626      2.631      3.048    2,916
Averace Otstance £km>
Iron Ore                     163        162        165        162        158        158        157       151
Phosphate                    340        341        342        339        338        341        342       344
Other                        332        261        277        273        259        247        263       2W2
Total                      272        236        249        244        234        229        242       235
Source: SNTF



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJÉCT
Ra1l Traffle (FCL) Broken Dowm bv Caroditv TVDes
Distance                       TK                  Distance
lte                   Tons lO000)   1K(mtllionl    Tons  1'000)   TK iLUllon)    K I  JXi            1k.)       Tons  O00)   lillimO)   TKZ I           Ik )
-------1984----------  ----------------1985---------------                                ------------------ 1986 -------------------
Iron Ore                    t,229           509.3           3,436             539.7        17.7         157          3,105        469.0         16.1       151
Phosphate                     927           315.8           1,272             434.8         14.3        342          1,146        393.0         13.5       344
Steel Products              1,595           546.4           1,620             601.0         19.7        371          1,587        621.0         21.3       370
Reflned 011                 1,559           359.9           1,748             452.3         14.8        259          1,844        421.3         14.5       230
Cereals                       836            209.3            993             249.7          8.2        252          1,197         316.0        10.8       250
Fertilizers                   206            148.4            278             193.6         6.4         697            272         170.5         5.8       700
Cenent                        346            104.0            338              98.5          3.2        291            397         129.5         4.S       300
Sugar                      ---5               79.7            339              71.3        2.3I                                                             _
Sub-Total               9,083          2,272.8          10,023          2,640.9         86.7        263           9,548      2,520.3        86.5       264
Coal, Coke                  1,216             24.7          1,363              27.7          0.9         20          1,352          29.8         1.0        22    1
Bar,te                          8              7.5              10              8.9         0.3         882)                                                      -'
Flour, Semolina               104             39.3             51              20.3         0.7         398)
Chemical                      158             32.9             104             29.8          1.0        286)         1.059        333.6         11.4       315   00
Salt                           77             28.5             74              33.1          1.1        448)                                                      1
Alfa                           38             14.7             31              14.7         0.5         471)
Other Cargo                   625            185.1            772             244.9         8.0         317)
Own Account                 __l8              25.6             160             27.3         0.9         ni             l2          1_            11         Q
Sub-Total               2.384            385.3           2.565             406.7        13.3        12            2.737        39S.6         13.S      I
Grand Total            11,467          2,658.1          12.588          3,047.6        100.0        242          12,38S      2,915.9       100.0       235
Source: SNTF
b-
fb-
G)



- 139 -
Table 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotive Stock - 1987
Wheel      Axle
Arrange-    Load
Tve            HP       Make         ment    (Tonnes)  Year    Numbers
Diesels Main Line
Standard Gauze
Diesel-Electric    3300    GM-USA         Co Co        20      1971       27
If            3300    GM-USA          "          20     1973       25
3300    GM-CANADA       "          20      1976      14 -'
3300    GM-CANADA       "          20     1982       25
2475    GM-CANADA       "          20      1976      24
1980    GE-USA          "          16     1978       25
Sub-total    140
Electric
3000 V DC           3000    LEW-GDR       Co Co        22      1972-73   24 2'
TOTAL         164
Dual Gauge (Standard/Narrow - 105 mm - bogies changeable'
Diesel-Electric    1100    GM-USA         Co Co        13      1977        5 "
Narrow (105 mm) Gauge
Diesel-Electric      920    Alsthom       Co Co        10      1958        2 4/
935    Alsthom                    12     1961        4
1100    GM-USA                     12     1977       25
Sub-total      31
Grand Total Main Line    200
Shunting Locomotives
Standard Gauge
Diesel-Hydraulic    650    LEW-DGR        4-Axle       15      1971/72   18
1972       6
Total shunters       24
Autorails (2 car units) Standard Gauge
Diesel Mech.         780    FIAT          8-Axle       10      1973      30 5'
'   1 - 1976 vintage locomotive, accident damaged beyond repair scrapped
in 1987.
2/   1 - Electric locomotive9 damaged beyond repair in collision with 1)
above, scrapped in 1987.
Classified as main line for narrow-gauge services. Used on standard
gauge principally for heavy duty shunting or transfer services.
6 - 1958 vintage locomotives scrapped in 1987.  Also 1 narrow gauge
locomotive.
Relegated from suburban to secondary local passenger services since
1985. Engines and transmission of all 30 units completely overhauled
in last two years. 2 units, damaged in accidents, scrapped in early
1987.



Page t of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPCRT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Rollina Stock Owner5hip - December 31. 1986
'Wagon Stock
Cateoory                       RUo               Total Canacity (tonnes)        Averaae ttonnes)
Dual G aUge        Pfy]uad/wgnn
General Stock               SG         Oual          SG         SG         KG      SG         SG - NG
Covereds                   2,624         770       96,047    45,815    19.943   37            60 - 26
Opmns                      1.626         681       44,536    37.863    18.250   27            56 - 27
Flats                      2_222       1 326       92-060    78. 101      3 5.48   4l .5- 25.
Subtotal  '                6.482      2 777       232.643   161.779    71.741   36            58 - 26
s»Cial
Opens (dropside)             -           240         -        13.200      6.000    -          SS - 25
Tank Pol                     460         433       23.368    14.246    11,994   51            33 - 28
General Hoppers
(Cereals: tilt
cover, gravity
Loading/unloading)           434          49       24.174      2,818      1.372   56          58 - 28
Iron Ore Hoppers
(Central discharge)          602        -          36.120       -          -       60          -   -
Phosphate Hoppers
(Side discharge
tilt-cover)                  516        -          23.323       -          -       45          -   -
Sugar Hoppers
(Gravity Ldg/Unlg
tilt-cover)                    30       -           1.761       -          -       59          -   -
Cement Bulk
(Peumatic discharge)          170       -           9,945       -          -       59          -   -
Coke Fines Open                40       -           2.180       -          -       SS          -   -
Salt Hoppers
(Side discharge
tilt-cover-corten)            205       -          12.751       -          -       62          -   -
Steel Cotl Flats              285       -          16.587       -          -       58          -   -
Limestone/Dolomite
Hoppers                        33       -           1.933       -          -       59          -   -
Coal open
(Side discharge
auto-operated)                 90       -           5,130       -          -       57          -   -
Gypsum Hoppers
(Side discharge
tilt-cover)                    79       -           4,527       -          -       57          -   -
Sand Hoppers
(Gravity L/UL)                623,480 1*180                                 5 J3              S9 -2
Subtotal 2/                3.004         742      165,279    31,444    19.886   SS            42 - 27
Grand Total                9L486    3L512
Total SNTF stock                 13 005
Private stock                       lm1   l'
Total Wagon Stock                13 186
Service Wagons 1986
Brake Vans                   173 Nos (100 pre 1959) standard gauge
Ballast Hoppers             750 Nos (700 standard gauge 1911-53/50 dual gauge 1983>
Tank                         46 Nos (1939-19S9) standard gauge
Miscellaneous               21S Nos (216 standard gauge 1880-1012 dual gauge 1944-63)
Total                      1204
ô   This stock consisting of 64 fertilizer/phosphate hoppers. 28 sugar hoppers, 45 coke fines
opens. 44 special flats are to be taken over shortly by the SNTF, leavlng no wagonîs ln
private ownership thereafter.
2/   In the per¶od 1970-1986. 9600 new wagons have been acquired.  All the 3519 dual gauge
wagons are new (replaced units). 4081 of the standard gauge or 53% is new replaced
stock. Retirement of 4900 was planned in the period 1981-1990: durlng 1981-1986 4200
wagons have been replaced, 700 will be replaced by 1990. thus completlng the program.
Another 3400 wagons (flats open) are slated for renewal during 1990-1995.  By 1990. about
70% of the fleet will be under
15 year of age and by 1995 if the fleet size remains the same and the program Is
realized, 70% of the stock will be under 1S year and 30S under S years of age.



- 141 -                Table 5
Page 2 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Stock - December 31. 1986
Category              Nos                    Total Capacity
lit class                2nd class
Standard Gauge                  Seats   Sleepers  Seats       Sleeper- Standing
ettes
Passenger Coaches
Main line              37      3,922       320       -           -       -
253       -         -       15,012        960     -
Suburban               12        336      -          -           -       -
248       -         -       17,680         -     8,840
Narrow Gauge           41        -         -       2,050         -       -
Other Vehicles
Brake Vans
Standard Gauge         34        -        -          -           -       -
Narrow Gauge            9        -        -          -           -       -
Reversible S.G.        27        -        -          -           -       -
620     3,758       320    34,630         960    8,840



- 142 -
&TAFF APPAHAL RIPOIT
MCOMD IAILIAY PBoJÉcT
Lina Canaeitv Charpetaristics
Trains £ach wav Par Oav In 19&6
Charted      aàct u al    n u a          r           Block
sactions                     tg       Tra1ns                          T _                    fiSvton
Standard GaU4e
Alaar-Coanstant Ina line
Alger-Oar El 8elda               19     OTrack        19        7       26        -            GLU
Dar El SBida-Thenia              35     24            10        7       17      71             CT
Thenla-Souira                    63     20             7        S       12      60             CT
Bouira-Béni Nansour              49     20             6        5       il       S5            CT
S.Mansour-SSA                    29      14            4        5        9       64            CT
"A-Settf                         70      1S            5        S       10      67             CT
Sotif-El Gourzt                 128      14            4        5        9      64             CT
El Gourzl-Constantine            27     OTrack         6        S       il        -            OL8
Thonia-Tizi Ouzou                57      il            3        2        S      45             CT
S.Nansour-gojaIa                 88      14            8        2       10       71            CT
Constantlng-Annaba lne
Constantine R.Jamel              44     OTrack         s        9       14        -            OLU
R.Jamel-Skikda                   19      17            5        9       14       82            amY
R.Jamel-Annaba                   96      13            1        6        7       S4            CT
Annaba-Djebel Onk ltne
Annaba-souchejouf                44      23            7       14       21       91            UN
Bouchegouf-S.Ahras               52      18            2       il       13       72            814V
S.Ahras-O.Keberit                56      18            1       il       12      67             amV
O.Keberit-Tebessa                68      19            1        4        S       26            EPR
Tebessa-Ojebel Onk              108      12            1        3        4       33            EPR
Tebessa-El Kouif                 25      1S            -        1        1        7            EPR
o.Kebertt-Ouenza                 24      23            -       10       10       43            EPR
Ain Chenia-B.Khadra              18      17            -        2        2       12            8P
Bouchegouf-Guelnia               33      12            2        1        3       25            CT
S.Ahras-Ghardimaou               53      lS            3        1        4       27            CT
El Gourzi-Touagourt line
El Gourzl-Balna                  80      12            2        4        6       Sa            CT
Batna-Biskra                    120      13            2        4        6       46            EPR
Biskra-Touggourt                216      il            1        2        3       27            EPR
Aloer-Oran line
Alger-El Afroun                  68     OTrack        17        6       23        -            OLS
E1 Afroun-<hemis                 Si      18            6        5       il      61             CT
KhamIs-O. ,dda                   66      16            6        4       10       63            CT
O.Fodda-O.Sly                    38     OTrack         6        4       10        -            OLS
O.Sly-Relizmne                   72      1S            S        3        8       53            CT
RelIzane-4oha,madia              50      18            7        4       il      61             CT
Mohaam-O.Tlelat                  SO      16            7        3       10      63             CT
O.Tlelat-Oran                    26     OTrack        23        5       28        -            OLS
Tlelat-ZES lina
O.Tlelat-S.B.Abbes               S1      16            6        2        8       SO            CT
S.O.Abbes-Tab1a                  23      16            4        2        6      38             CT
Tabia-Tlemcen                    64      14            4        2        6      43             CT
Tlemcen-Z.E.Beghal               69       8            2        2        4      50             CT
Moham.-Mostaganem                45      12            4        1        S      42             EPR
Oran-Ain Temouchent              69      14           10        -       10      71             CT
Z.E.Seghal-Ghaz4ouet             -       14            -        2        2       14            EPR
Tab1a-Crançel                    76       3            -        1        1      33             8P
5arraw GauS
Bllda-Medea                      49      12            -        3        3      2S             EPR
Medea-Soghari                    75      16            -        2        2       13            £PR
Boghart-Gjelfa                  155      10            -        1        1       10            EPR
Mohamradia-Saida                120      14            1        3        4       29            EPR
Salda-Kralfallah                 43       8            1        2        3      38             £PR
Kralfallah-Mecherla             138      14            1        2        3       21            EPR
Mecheria-Sechar                 358      10            1        2        3       30            EPR
Relzane-Tiaret                 121       S            -        1        1       20            CT
T1aret-Mahd1a                    45       S            -        1        1       20            BP
Tlzi-#ascara                     12       6            -        -        -        -            BP



- 143 -                   Table 7
Page l ot 2
AL GRlà
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Traction and Rolling Stock
maintenance Installations and Producti1n
LocoiivEs
Reaots                                     No. of Locomotives homed
Main L1ne  Shunters   Autorails
Standard Gauge                      DE               Electrlc   OH            --
Algiers                             39               --          lS           16
Sidi-Mabrouk                        48               --           4            6
S. Ahras                            25               24 l/        l           __
Cran                                36               --4l
Harrow Gauge
Blida                                9
Mohamn,dia                           19 T/           --          --           --
Total     176              24          24           32
Workshoos (Periodic Overhaul)
El Hama (Algiers)                   All GM Units:  Capacity 36 units/year.
Sidi-Mabrouk (Constantine)          GE Units. Shunters. Autoratils and bogies of
Electric Locomotives.
WAGONS
Workshoos (PeriodIc Overhaull
Annaba                              Covereds, specials:  capacity 3600
units/year a/
Mohammadia                          Opens.
Heavy Reoair Centres
Sidi-Mabrouk (Constantine)          Specials
Hussein-Dey                         Flats
Blida                               Dual Gauge. all types.
There are 25 Ron lneu wagon repair/recovery Depots, strateg1cally dispersed
over the system, and 47 Train Examination points located approxlmately at
every 100 km along the l1ne.
COACHES
WorkshoRs
S1d1-Bel-Abbess                     All standard gauge vehicles including vans
Mohammadia                          Used to handie narrow gauge vehicles wh1ch
are now no longer in service
General        During the fast six years tht equipment, especially machine
tools and ground level lifting and handling gear, has been moder'Ized ln all
workshops, and many of the lineside depots. The on-going program, started ln
1982 1s expected to be cont1nued through the 1986-1990 1nterval. by the end of
which most the plant and equipment will have been modernized.
Y/     The Depot 1s equipped to overhaul Electric Locomotives. except the
bogies and traction motors wh1ch are overhauled at Sid1-Mabrouk
(Constantine).
Y      Alsthom units are allocated h*re for running maintenance as well as
overhaul.
aJ     In addition, 30 accident-damaged wagons are repaired annually.



- 144 -
Page 2 of 2
Workshoo Maintenance Output l986lProgram 1987
1.  Lkcc jtives (Workshops)
General 1/  Intermediate  Overhaul    Accident
Warkshop           LUIe                          Overhaul       Overhaul      Bogies       Renatrs
Algiers (Hanma)   Diesel Electric (GM) J198    21 (2fi.1  l       9 tl51          44 152)   52 1/
1987   28             21               50
Constantine        Diesel Electric (GE) i.2I        -   à. .22.   3 t1            12 (12)   31
Diesel Shunters        1987   12              1S              12
Bogies Electric
Souk Ahras         Electric               lmiM     a (61          q tl21           -         98
1987    6              12
Total        i.&6 OUUULu                    52 (454         21 t301         56 (fi4L  181
1987 Program                  46             47               62
1986 Program Achlevement                    26%             QU                         -
2.  Wagons & Coaches (Workshops 1986 Output)
Vehicle & Brake Gear
Periodic              Boules          Periodic
General 1/   Intermediate  Preventive           G           I       Preventive
Workshop        TLMi        Overhaul        Overhaul    Maintenance   Overhaul   pverhaul  Haintenance
Annaba           Wagons   120 (170) i/  581 (600)         2182 (2250)   691 (200)  156 (200)    550 (600)
Coaches       -              -            89 (100)          -           -            -
Sidi-Mabrouk    Wagons         -           40 (60)        1310 (1150)        -            -            -
Coaches       -              -            57 (120)          -           -             -
Hussein Oey      Wagons   102 (100)            -           484 (300)         -            -            -
Coaches       -              -           775 (850)          -           -            -
Mohamedia        Wagons    27 (132)        317 (240)       899 (696)      834 (720)  116 (360)   654 (600>
Coaches       -              -            68                -           -            -
Sidi-Bel-Abbes  Coaches   37 (51)          106 (93)        219 (400)         -            -            -
Total 1986           286 (4531 4/  1044  (993)    6083 (58661   15l2   (920)  272 (560)  1195 (12001
1986 Program Achievement  f%               l104%                          165%         _2X          22X
3. Wagons & Coaches (Reglonal Bad Order Maintenance Depot output 1986)
Washing        Brake
Line           Gear             Primary
Region          tYlx       Maintenance   Adjustment         Maintenance
Algiers        Coaches       50 (204)         -              426 (500)
Wagons          -           138 (400)        3551 (4000)
Oran           Coaches      192 (224)         -              467 (300)
Wagons          -           180 (390)        2222 (2700)
Constantine   Coaches        64 (92)          -               67 (150)
Wagons          -           514 (450)        4522 (3200)
Souk Ahras    Coaches       107 (102)         -              390 (350)
Wagons          -           766 (546)        8250 (6500)
Total 1986    Coaches       413 (622)         -             1350 (13001
Wagons          -           5l98 t21761   18.545 <16.4001 _/
1986 Program       Coaches u      EX              -              103%
Achievement        Wagons           -            73%             113%
G/Overhaul   I/Overhaul   Bog1es(2)
M/ Manhours required are GM/GE  5000/4500    8000/7500            1500
jZ Bracket figures refer to 1986 program targets. The 1987 program
targetted tncludes backlog carry-overs of 1986 program.
1/  3-severely damaged GH locomotives were repaired.  The repair involved
complete stripping. reassembly, cutttng/rewelding chasis, rebuilding
the cab and coachwork.
_4/ Includes accident repairs of 4 coaches and 233 wagons.
2/ Includes accident rerailing. recovery and minor repairs and
replacements.



- 145 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SÉCONO *AILWAY PROJECT
Matntenance Stores Proeure nt
1985/M6 and Forecast lga
Procuremnt (million DA)
-----Actual ------------------- ------------           ------ Forecast ------
O         I        T"            0         I        T           o          I      T
I.  Ran Hater1als                  _I           U QL4               15.51     L27    15.42          17.8             1HS
Lubricants                   2.19       -        2.19        10.9        -       10.9         14.0       -      14.0
T1Iter                       0.43      0.48      0.91         1.31      0.04      1.35         1.0      0.1      1.1
Iron R Ste«l                 0.08      0.12      0.20         1.53      0.01      1.SS         1.0      0.2      1.2
miscellaneous                 -         -         -           1.41      0.21      1.62         1.8      0.2      2.0
Il.  Hardware                                  1.6     L38           L.5       1.0      35            L        1.2     LZ
Elect1rc Cables              0.04      0.02      0.06         0.09      0.01      0.10         0.5      0.1      0.6
Pa1nts                       0.45       -        0.45          -         -         -            -        -        -
Huts & Bolts                 0.57      0.10      0.67         0.32      0.10      0.42         0.5      0.1      0.6
Apparatus Electrlc           1.29      1.34      2.63         2.10      0.90      3.00         1.5      1.0      2.5
III.  Tools/Atr Condittonin           _ Q,12    Q09      Lii           0.0i      LZ       e2.            Li.    LA       Q.2
Heat1ng                       -        0.08      0.08          -        0.26      0.26          -       0.4      0.4
Hard Tools/Tool lits         0.02      0.21      0.23         0.06      0.07      0.13         0.1      0.4      0.5
IV.  Lacamr&M                        LM       10.31    10.14          0.LI     6.1       L.I           OLJ    13.10  ,10.20
GM                           0.02      5.70      5.72          -        3.60      3.60          -       6.00    6.00
GE                            -        0.70      0.70           -       0.32      0.32          -       0.50    0.50
Electr1c                      -        1.62      1.62          -        0.97      0.97          -       1.00    1.00
Shunters                      -        0.61      0.61          -        0.11      0.11          -       0.40    0.40
Autorails                     -        0.33      0.33          -        0.37      0.37          -       1.00    1.00
Compressors/Brakes           0.01      0.93      0.94          -        0.16      0.16          -       0.70    0.70
Others                        -        0.42      0.42         0.13      0.60      0.73         0.1      0.50    0.60
V.  Rall1no Stock                  22.        L.1     i2 212 120.1 212L                                      i.L6      &LZ
Wheels                        -        3.0       3.0            -       8.50      8.50          -      10.0    10.0
Brake Slocks                22.1       0.4      22.5          7.10       -        7.10         8.0      4.5    12.5
Wagons/Coaches               0.S       5.3       5.8          2.11      3.51      5.62         2.0      4.0      6.0
HMscellaneous                 -        0.4       0.4          0.01       -        0.01         0.1      0.1      0.2
VI.  Paner/Off le Eaulaimnt          L.7      _.         .Z             4       _        LA            Là.I    Q 5      4.1
VII.  Catenary/Substations                                Lil L.0                                       .- L  0LJ
VIII. Veh1-le5                        _         4I L8 L4 L8 .20                             .0                   La      LI
IX.  Untfranten                      0.74     .7ZI      6.48         0.61      4.L1      4-92 .1.0    -1               -L.
Grand Total I - IX        34.29    32.58    66.87          31.20    26.10    57.30          35.2    37.8    73.0
Note on Lead Tt1me f or Proeurfit
1/ 0 = ûomestlc. I = Import. T = Total



- 146 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SNTF Annual Trans»ort Plan - 1917 Farcagst
----Regional Distributi on---------- -----
Average                  Tonne-km (Million)
ConnggIty          Tonnes      tonne-bk   Lead       Soukh  Ahras   Constantne    Aliers           nran
(040)       (Million)  (km)
Iron Ore                  3.575         647         181         647             -              _
Phosphate                 1.200         413         344         413              -             -           _
Coal                      1,50S          32.6        21          29              1.8           1.5         0.3
Slag                        120           7          62           s              2             -           -
Limestone/Dolomlte          125          27         219           6            21              -           -
Iron and Steel              857         497         580          40           300            141          16
Steel Products              149          59         207           1            27             24           7
Brouettage                  s 588        il          20          il              -             -           -
Zinc                         27          32       1,132            1             a            il          12
Sulphuric Acid               16          14         901           1              3             S           S
Petroleum Products        2.018         460         227          21           141             80         218
Lubricants                   54          45         833           1             13            22           9
Cereals                   1,220         280         230           3            95            112          70
Cemnt                       420         124         300           -             53            38          33
Gypsum                       50           8         151           -             8              -           -
Fertilizer                  270         190         700           8            85             81          16
Salt                         99          41         412           0.2          24             11.8         S
Sugar raw                   159          29         185           7             -              9          13
Sugar crystallized            5           1         200           -             -              -           1
Flour, Semolina              65          34         520           -             18            1S           1
Food Products               180          49         273           3             17            20           9
Ttmber                       44           9         212           -             7              2           -
Alfa                         30           9         300            -             -             2           7
Paper cartons                19          10         526           1              3             4           2
Fodder                       32           6         190           -             3              2           1
General Goods               46                                    Z 2Q  _      2                          51
Total              13.171       3.280          249       1.201           926           671         482
1J/ Steel and steel products shlpped by coastal vessels to Algiers/Oran.



ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECO.4D RAILWAY PROJECT
Whaon Turnround
Annual
Annual      Under           Average       Average       Annual      Turnround      Tonnage    Average Wagon
Wacon Type       Wauon Daf s  Maintenance    Stabled       Ava11able  Lfl dn  Nos.  DaIIi           Lnabo         Load Tons
Petroleum Products   321,480        22.567            -       298,913       49.117        6           1.866,636        38
Iron Ore              219,730      137.863            -        81,867       51,744        1.62/       3.104.880        60
Phosphate             188,370      110,120            -        78,250       22,865        3.42/       1.146,375        50
Cereals               176,295        9,263            -       167.032       23,733        7           1,095,478        46
Coke/Coal              63.875        6,935        7.000        49,940       27,358        0.5'         1,351,897       50
2.0
Steel Co1l             67.525        8,760            -        58,765        5,275       il             250.000        47
Sugar                  21,170        2,773       4,040         14.357        2,768       j               148,913       47
6.7
Others              3,706.265      667,116     660,313      2.378.856      106,156      il  ''        3,420.395        32
28.6
Total               4,764,710      965,377     671,353      3.127,980      269.016      1i.8.'       12,384.574        42
13.1
Note:  The bottom l1ne (total) overall figures are more or less correct but the coi.odity data is not quite accurate.
The SNTF conducted a census of wagons on April 2, 1987 w1th the twin objective of reconc1ling the turnround status
and coaouter1z1ng the reckon1ng.  The results of the census and reconciliation will be known ln late April 1987.
1/  Turnround excludins wagons stabled due to no trafflc upper figure: lower figure = turnround Inclusive of stabled
wagons.
Z!  The average avallability for 1ron ore/phosphate show an 1mmobilization percentage of 62/58 respectively. which 1s
clearly too high.  About 189 1ron ore wagons (119 wlth troughs and 80 of Romanian origin) are of the phosphate
wagons, 140 recently delivered by the Annaba factory have minor rivetting defects which are being rectified.
'iD



- 148 -                    Table Il
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
LCL Traffic, Grouped in Complete Wagon Loads bv Forwarding Agents
Loaded in Period Aug.- Dec. 1986
Origin             Destination              Tonnes      Tonne km    Lead
Agha                Ech Chetiff               49.6       10,307       208
Djelfa (VE)               49.0       10,204       327
Bouira                    16.0        1,952       122
BB Arredj                  2.3          545       237
Setif                    119.8       36,767       307
Tizi Ouzou                43.0        4,558       106
Bejaia                    62.7       16,178       258
Oran                     477.5      201,011       421
Relizane                  37.0       10,923       295
Sidi Bel Abbes             9.4        4,185       445
Tlemcen                   28.5       15,200       533
Mostaganem                12.4        4,818       389
Bechar (VE)                9.0        9,036      1004
Tiaret                   106.0       30,056       284
Constantine              298.8      138,044       462
Batna                     80.3       40,536       505
Touggourt                 69.0       58,167       843
Skikda                    20.0       10,960       548
Annaba                   235.3      147,062       626
Tebessa                    5.0        4,280       856
Total A     1730.5       774,224      448
Hussein Dey        Oran                      111.6       66,425       595
Constantine               54.6       24,942       457
Guelma                     8.0        5,664       708
Annaba                    10.0        4,200       420
Total B      184.2        83,231      452
Caroubier Tri      Djelfa      Total C         9.0        2,871       319
Ech Chetiff        Medea       Total D         1.0          208       208



- 149 -                 Table 11
Page 2 of 2
Oripin              Destination              Tonnes      Tonne km    Lead
Oran                Agha                      114.3        98,199      422
Baba Ali                  30.0        12,060       402
Sidi Bel Abbe8            57.0         4,503        79
Tlemcen                   59.5         9,875       166
Mostaganem                 10.9        1,329       122
Bechar (VE)              148.3       109,297       737
Constantine              181.0       150,565       865
Total E       601.0      341,748       569
Relizane            Oran        Total F         3.0           378        126
Tlemcen             Oran        Total G        43.0         7,138        166
Bechar              Oran        Total H        25.1        18,j98        737
Constantine         Agha                        4.0         1,848        462
Batna                      16.5        1,930        117
Annaba                     14.6         2,375       163
Total K        35.1       6.153          192
Batna               Touggourt  Total L          2.0           676        338
Annaba              Agha                        9.2         5,750        639
Guelma                      7.6           666        88
Souk Ahras                48.3         5,166        107
Total M        65.1        11,582        178
Soukh Ahras         Agha                        2.7         1,958        725
Tebessa                    2.5            307       123
Total N         5.2         2,265       436
Tebessa             Annaba      Total P         3.0           693        231
Gralnd Total A - P                    2,707.2    1,249,665         462



- 150 -
Table 12
ALtER2A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND tAILWAY PRO.3ECT
onerat tonal Performance Data
(1986)
5LaKui,~~~~~~~~~~ul   2
Standard Gauoe
Diesel main line                  Avallability       z             91        90.5
Freight and Passenger services  Performance          km/day        294       291
Reliability       km/failure   33.009   25,913
Electric main line                Avallability       X.            80        75.6
Freight (mineral) services        Performance        km/day        112       lSO
Reltability       kri/failure   3.684    2.;0,
Shunting Locomotives              Availability       :             66        74.S
Autorails                         Availability       %             87        88
Performance       km/day        215       173
Reliability       km/failure   38.325   24.940
Narrow/Oual Gauge
1100 HP main line               Availability      X              79       88.4
Fre1ght service                 Performance        km/day        280       311
Rellability       km/failure   17.406   18,370
920/93S HP main line            Avatlability       X             69        84.4
Freight service                 Performance        km/day        7         39
Railway all types               Availabllity       %             92        94
Private                         Avatlability       %             77        69
Certain spectal types, as under. are prone to a higher incidence of service
defects:
Phosphate         SNTF          Availability       X             85        87
Prtvate       Avatlability      Z             72        79
Limestone/Oolom1te              Ava1lability       %             57        55
Flats of particular types       Avallability       X             67        67
Average Load per wagon                               Tons          41        42
Turnround                                            days          12        12
Coaches                           Avallab1ltty       %             85        81
Accidents. Collitsions & Deratilments per million trains kms    S0 1/    60
i/   1983 data.  All collisions ln yards.  67X derailments are in shunting,
the balance 33X of trains.



- 151 -
Table 13
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Gross Tralled Traffie 1967 - 86
A. Traffic Oensity
<GTTkm/vearl        (GTT/km,year)    Cumulated GTT/km
Lakm)    1                     1967 1186    From 1967 ta 1986
1. Standard Gauge Track
a) Main Line
Annaba - O/ Keberit       163       71SS    1,376.5      4.39    8.44           137.6
Alger-Constantine         453       685.3    2,192.7      1.51    4.84            62.1
Constantine - Sklkda       86       101.8       391.0     1.18    4.SS            59.7
Annoba - R. Jamel          96        74.0       350.0     0.77    3.6S            44.3
Alger - Oran              421       689.6    1.644.6      1.64    3.91            54.8
0. Keberit - 0. Onk       243       171.3       511.3     0.70    2.10            30.8
El Gourzi - Biskra        201       124.2       400.6     0.62    1.99            29.9
B. Mansour - Bejaia        88        52.2       177.1     0.59    2.01            23.0
O. Tlelat - Beghal        208       140.5       312.2     0.68    1.50            19.6
Thenia - Tizi Ouzou        52        15.3        56.8     0.29    1.09            13.2
Biskra - Touggourt        L2U        741        215Z2     0 34   L09              186
Sub-total          2,228    2,843.8    7.628.0       1.28    3.42            48.2
b) Other lines               356        56.2       137.8     0.16    0.39             5.1
2. Narrow Gaugg Track          1 116       349 6      668 2      0A 3    0               7.4
Total              3,700    3,249.6    8,434.0       0.88    2.28            31.8
B. Averace Annual Growth Rates of GTT Trafflcs
(per cert/year)
Lona Term Trend       (1967-861    Medium Term Trend       (1980-86J
Passenger    Frelght      Total      Passenger    Freight       Total
1. Standard Gauge Track
a) Main L.ne
Annaba - O/ Keberit        4.9         3.4         3.5          5.9          0.3        0.6
Alger-Constantine          3.4         8.4         6.3          2.5          5.4        4.4
Constantine - Skikda      -2.4        10.1         7.3         -5.6         4.0         3.1
Annoba - R. Jamel         -1.6        11.5         8.5         -9.8         6.4         4.6
Alger - Oran               3.5         6.1         4.7          6.0          0.7        2.9
0. Keberit - 0. Onk        5.2         6.0         S.9         10.8          1.3        1.6
El Gourzi - Biskra        -1.5         7.9         6.4         -0.6         -2.0       -1.9
8. Mansour - BeJaia        7.2         5.7         6.6          5.4          5.2        5.3
0. Tlelat - Beghal         2.8         5.8         4.3          0.9         6.5         3.8
Thenia - Tizi Ouzou        3.8        13.2         7.1         -5.0        27.2         5.5
Biskra - Touggourt          -          5.2         5.8          6.5         -7.4       -6.3
Sub-total             3.3         6.2         5.3         3.5          2.0         2.3
b) Other lines                7.0         3.5         4.8          4.2          4.5        4.4
2. Narrow Gaude Track            -2.7        4.9         3_          -0 7.1                   fia
Total                 3.1         6.0         5.1         3.4          2.4         2.6



- 152 -
Table 14
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Quantities of Track Materials to be Procured
Units     Quantity        Cost US$ million
Rails UIC 54 B                      tons        21,160               13.8
Wooden sleepers                     pcs         43,200                1.7
Metal bars for concrete sleepers  pes          277,440                2.9
Fastenings                          tons         2,208                4.4
Fish plates                         pcs          5,780                0.3
Welding portions                    pcs         15,940                0.5
Switches                            pcs             40                1.5
Total         25.1



- 153 -
Table 15
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
A. Bank Disbursements
FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92       FY93
-----US $ million  -
Annual                      46.0      50.0       25.0      13.0        9.0
Cumulative                  46.0      96.0      121.0     134.0      143.0
B. Co-Donor Disbursements
FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92       FY93
-----US $ million     --------
Annual                      15.0      18.0        8.0       4.0        2.0
Cumulative                  13.0      33.0       41.0      45.0       47.0



- 155 -
ALGLRIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
5ECOHO RASLWAY PQOJECT
Proicet Iml-ntation Schedule
PROJECT                                             19&7        long         19B9   1    1490   1    19
I.    Traek Rahabtlitation
Annaha - Ramdane Dlasel
Invite bids/award contract                                 tXX
Mobtlizati1n of  works                                        XXX
Construction                                                     xxm w xx   XXXX xxxxxxxxx»
IS.  Track Renewal
a. El adlar - Souk Ahras
Prepare pro3ect/Sid documents                            XXXXXXXXX
Invite bids/award contract                                           XXXXX
MobIlizatIon of works                                                   XXXX
Construction                                                                 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
b. Beni Mansoor - Setif
Prepare materials list/Speciftcat1ons       I            XXXX
Invite materials offers/place orders       I                 xxxx
Delivery of materials                                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX      I
Construction                                                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI
IrI.  Sionalling and Telecommunications
a. Cabin Ooerated Points/Sianals
Algters - El Harrach ;Annaba-                                 
Ramdane Diamel                              I           i                                     I
Prepare project/Bid documents                           | XXXX
Invite bids/award contracts                             I      XXXXXXXX
Works mobilization                                                      XXXX
Installation                                            I                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXYXXXXXXXX
b. Tokenless Block (Annaba - Ramdane 01amel)>
CL5 - Auto Block (Alg1ers - El Harrachi1
Prepare project/Bid Documents                            XXXXXXXX                I
Invite SBds/Award Contracts                                      XXXXXXIXXX
Works mobil1zatlon                          I           I                  XXXXXXI
Installation                               I                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXX<XXXXXXXXXX
c. Laboratorx
Prepare specs/Bid Documents                I            IxxxxX
Invite offers/place orders                              I    XXXXXXI             I            I
Complete building                                            XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX                           I
Deliveries                                  I                                  XXXXXXXXX
Install equipment                          I                                     I XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
d. Level Crossing Eauloment
Prepare specs/Bid Documents                                 XXXXXX
Invite offers/place orders                 I            I        XXXXXXXXX
Deliveries                                  I                        I           I XXXXXXXXXXXX
Install equipment                                                                       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
e. Station Telephone Eouioment 
Prepare specs/Bid Documents                |            I            X           i            i
Invite offers/place orders                                                XXXXXXXXX
Deliveries                                  I           î           |            I XXXXXXXXX|
Install equipment                                       I           I l          l            IXXXXXXXXXXX
IV.   Waoon Tippler - Annaba
Prepare specs/Bld Documents                             lXXXx       I            I            I
Invite offers/place orders                              I    XXXXXXXXX
|el iveries                                1            1                           xxxxx
Install equipment                                                                     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
V.    Track Maintenance Eauiament                                I>,      
Prepare specs/Bid Documents                              xxxxxx       
Invite offers/place orders                                    XXXXXXXXX
Deltverles                                 I            i           I         XXXXXXXXXXX
Comission                                                                         XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
VI.   Technleal Assistance
a. Organize school                                      XXXI                                     I
Short list consultants                                    XXX
Invite bids/Select 1nstructors                          IXXXXXXX   I
Coamence Training                                                XXXXXXXXXXX» XXXXXXXXXX2X (XXXXXXXXX>
b. Select overseas trainees and institutions |             |XXXXXX     |
Proceed training                           |XXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXX   XXXXXX
c. TOR studies/short list consultants                                   I |XXXXXXXXX  |
Invite btds/Select consultants                                XXXXXXXXXX
Inception Repo-ts                          I            I           IXXXXXX
Final Reports                              i            I           |  XXXXXXxXXXXXXXXX   xxxxxx
d. Staff Trainîno Centres                                               I           I            i
Prepare TORs/Select consultants            |                                  XXX|    XXX
Consultants oosted                         i                     xxxIxxx xx xxx    xxx   xxxxl xx       xxI



ALGERLA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Organisation Chart SNTF-1987
Deçuts
Directa,tspca
Headk4uadêf
Peorrnel
Ceti
3.Adv&so
Admrnistlatn    _______Cr,re
Techiîical
bsn~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~#sne
DitectO,         DîirectotD o                                        DiectO           D,êclot                                             Di'octor
Hun,an                               ~~~~~~~~Finance   Ptanisng          D'tOctol         Dîn)ctoî       MoSys Power         DteCO,Decto           r
Genti,ffi<       Peorîcl           rlitt                                 &Stores                                        ODraros&                          tlrntucw
Resou,ces  Relations  Accounts  stuciies                                 Rolling Stock     (TrackIS & f
AdrrnnSlfration  Admînstrahon       TorbflCIg              V          h                  Sdes           9rocrOment         Tronsport        Tochnfcl            nnck         Tecrcnca
.nw   -        Satnest                         no= raon                             Ptactrnnn        Cnrîmnt         Com,ercial           colt          Moentenance         Studies
Social nruce   Sotlorles                         ur &Accouns                           nirI                            Traction       Losomir  s        Cl0.l Works      sec    ont            '.rs
SoCtol msulatnce  Rule$ &     Suptror           Prhnng           Finnce          Pl_              Forwarding            Rtsa           h  So          lt                   roXêcr
petîremerits  ISegulatons  Cadre ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~rg                                                   slo           RitngStckPOOc
Rerirrtmrtnts   Reoutotions   Coare   DeDornTl nt    ~~Audit       RrC  Iotn          eDhmm5ren-        contr01            Tocls           StP.n          maelon  4nt
Stock           Genreal        Procurment        Tonographt       Procurmnr
Accournng 8tttngQs
Priîng                                            Equçnfnr
Secunty    {                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Genrrofo                 Uoa rni tot
Cells  |  Admit                                     Pro,icts
P'ocurmnrent
Sçnadrs
|Teecomrnu-
1     Coe,kqe a         CCWrKQO                      1      %bgonlcaêo
(Constantine]                                         n otion
DIl                                I                Dy               DY
| |Eoch Rego4 nps 7 Subuits        |         l        l      C       DP                ll       C    DP                   ll       C    DP OP
}   |  Commrdol. Tionspot Mbrve                       DPl| F DPAF                                         OPAF             OPAÇ              DPAF
Powe t &Ro kxg Stock. hInttO  
_                   _ ficturi 9;naXo b TebcomI
|Fmanon & Accounts Personnetl |                       ME                MM
bGeneo                                         l     MW       l         L                                            |     LA
Wotes
DT TrectmCol Dlvions           MEM  Englne Ovethaul Diision
DP 5toduchor DmnIshD           MLW  Mlhttrwstg DIns!on
r.PAF Personnel Aamlsftatêon     DAP Store Depor                                                                                                            Worl ata,S-31170
Finonce Dimsor



SES4 T = CONSTANTIN>* SSouo
ana     BliainaT blida
4    O *     A     "  ChWf  D-§elKa  , E         Bordj sou   rrJf  e
'   tManhdia   /ia>                               B--          Onk
|'  /Ma    éa                   t      -      /       \               /                <        //  / t  KhXCbehel    V 
U   ,J <   Cramp i   0                         >         /       /                       ,a Tout
{   tt         /                    ~~~~~~~~To Ohardala    '2P    To Touggour t                         L
MI\        ;         /                                        +>                MILES O
O  {       //                ~~~ALGERIA                                   KILOMiETERS O  50 tOO 1s0 200 
5 S                                                                               . 0 SECOND RAILWAY
/   2 /                   PROJECT                                                                 --.WW-~:_
B   z               1                                                             _, _,._  ___~~~~~~~~~~.0, 
_   iw «!                          v   l~~~~~~~~~nternational Airports_
<~ Undor the hapbroltcttOn/R*nowaa Olf 0  P
Onsgoinsa Track Pahabilitation                                                          A rua oToguI
Z            -I     Rallways Unidor Construction                                          r KL ErEALOERIA Ô                  LIBYA     ( Z  _
O                                     ~~~~~~~~~O CItie s/Town.                                                            (o   tl 0
m    ~ l-I-I    Standard CGaugu Raiiways                                           ,                                                  3<I l
Sef   69   c   0  N                 National Capital                                                                  O
w             -r-  Narrow Oauge Rlallways                             )                         IA N/IAI
m                            _                          International Boundarlos                         MALi
Mrain Naaiiational  oaunea           eoca Arot
D      Main National Roads               ~Indîcates th. Tarritory of       $Ét)NlQEiR   CHiAB   D  1
*Un- the Former Spanitrh Saharao _
ga             i?   Main Porta         hWbstern Sahara)                                      4
Si _ 1ç_ t \______________________________ar_________s _0 CltJ __wn



