Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2976 AL
(Second Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS FERROVIAIRES
Dated August 30, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2976 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 30,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS FERROVIAIRES (the 
Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (the Guarantor) and 
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth 
in the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank of Japan a loan 
(the  EXIMBANK Loan) in an amount equivalent to about $47,000,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth  in an agreement 
(the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Export-Import Bank of Japan; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms  have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
     (b)  "DA" means Algerian Dinars.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty three million dollars ($143,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank of Algeria on terms  and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the  
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstand-
               ing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined
               by the Bank.
Page  3
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices, all in accordance with 
an action plan agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than December 1, 1989, or such later date as mutually  agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank, employ consultants in accordance  with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to assist the Borrower in 
designing a cost accounting system for railway operations and tariffs;
     (b)  not later than December 1, 1990, furnish the proposed system, together with 
a time schedule for its implementation to the Bank for its review and comments; and
     (c)  implement said system in accordance with said time schedule, taking into 
consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and transport practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management  assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, economic and transport practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank for 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
               sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
               statements) and  the records and accounts for the Special  
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
Page  4
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
               later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A)  
               certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
               so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
               audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
               the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last  
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records  
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other  
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
               that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
               said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
               submitted during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
               be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower shall for each of its fiscal years after its  fiscal 
year ending on December 31, 1990, take all necessary steps to reach a  financial 
equilibrium, in accordance with objectives specified in an action  plan agreed upon 
between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Ordonnance No. 76-28 of March 25, 1976, of the Guarantor, establishing the 
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the financial  condition of the Borrower or its 
ability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  The EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1989, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however,  that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project will be available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                    EXIMBANK Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
                    the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
                    the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement, or (B) the EXIMBANK loan  
                    shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
                    maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
               Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
Page  5
               (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring  
               is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
               its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
               for the Project are available to the Borrower from other  
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
               gations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event specified in paragraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of Section 6.01 (c) (ii).
ARTICLE VII
Termination
     Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as  
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Societe Nationale des
            Transports Ferroviaires
          21-23 Boulevard Mohamed V
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of
            Algeria
                                              Telex:
                                              66484
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Page  6
                    SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS FERROVIAIRES
                    By /s/ C. Derouiche
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Track                    33,700,000        32%
     rehabili-
     tion (Annaba-
     Ramdane Jamel)
(2)  Track renewal            22,200,000        34%
     (El Hadjar-
     Bouchegouf-Souk
     Ahras)
(3)  Track                    18,800,000        75% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures
     (Beni Mansour-
     Setif-El Gourzi)
(4)  Signalling and           17,700,000        75% of foreign
     telecommuni-                               expenditures
     cations equip-
     ment
(5)  Track main-              25,200,000        75% of foreign
     tenance                                    expenditures
     equipment
(6)  Phosphate                 1,500,000        75% of foreign
     unloading                                  expenditures
     equipment
(7)  Training                  3,200,000        75%
(8)  Consultants'              2,200,000        75%
     services
(9)  Training support          2,500,000        75% of foreign
     materials and                              expenditures
     equipment
(10) Operational               3,200,000        75% of foreign
     support mate-                              expenditures
     rials and
     equipment
(11) Foreign study               500,000        75%
     tours
(12) Unallocated              12,300,000
          TOTAL              143,000,000
Page  7
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other than that of the Guarantor for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate key sections of the main 
railway network, to improve investment planning in the railway sector and to  improve 
management, operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.   Rehabilitation of about 88 km  main line track and renewal of about 283 km of 
main  line  track between Algiers, Constantine and Annaba, and between Chbaita and 
Souk Ahras.
2.   Modernization of signalling and telecommunications equipment and of about 60 
level crossings on selected sections of main rail lines and equipping of a  workshop 
for maintenance of said equipment.
3.   Acquisition of equipment for the mechanization of track maintenance works.
4.   Acquisition and installation of two specialized phosphate unloading facilities.
Part B:   Operation and Management
1.   Establishment of a cost accounting system for railway operations and tariffs.
2.   The study of a centralized management system for freight traffic.
3.   Introduction of computer systems in the Borrower's divisions, including the 
acquisition of computer hardware and software.
4.   Strengthening of the planning and implementation procedures for investment 
projects.
Part C:   Training
1.   Strengthening of the Borrower's personnel management and planning capacity.
2.   Preparation and implementation of a training program for teachers at railway 
training centers and institutes.
3.   Preparation and implementation of training programs for personnel of the Borrower 
in rail technical, management, computer and personnel areas, both in Algeria and 
abroad.
4.   Provision of teaching materials to the railway training centers and institutes.
*     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
Page  8
     beginning December 15, 1993
     through   June 15, 2003                       7,150,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent  dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per annum) applicable to
                                           the balance outstanding
                                           on the Loan on the day of
                                           prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
     maturity
Page  9
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid  packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each, to permit bulk procurement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject  to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and   paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, materials and equipment for training 
and operational support may be procured under contracts awarded  through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation  and comparison of bids 
invited from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55
and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Contracts for materials and equipment for training and operational support, 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract, may be awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from  at least three suppliers 
from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Elastic track fasteners may be procured under contracts negotiated with the 
relevant manufacturer.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for works, and each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where   payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to  the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to  the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of  the Special Account in respect 
of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts  shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  10
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ accounting, management, transport and  training consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants, when financed by the Bank, shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 11 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $16,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been  justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this   Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
               in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
               or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
               eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Page  11
               Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
