                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                      Report No: 54489-ET




                                   PROJECT PAPER


                                        ON AN


                                ADDITIONAL CREDIT


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 119.20 MILLION
                         (US$180 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                               AND RESTRUCTURING


                       FOR THE ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT


                                        TO THE


                FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA



                                      June 2,2010



Energy Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2010)
                                     Currency Unit   =                    ir
                                                               Ethiopian B r
                                            US$l     =         ETB 13.51
                                             US$1    =         XDR0.66

                           FISCAL YEAR: July 8       -          July 7

                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

        AfDB                  African Development Bank
        BADEA                 Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
        BPR                   Business Process Re-engineering
        CFL                   Compact Fluorescent Lamps
        DSM                   Demand Side Management
        EAREP                 Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project
        EEA                   Ethiopia Electric Agency
        EEPCo                 Ethiopia Electric Power Corporation
        EIB                   European Investment Bank
        EITI                  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
        EMU                   Environmental Management Unit
        EREDPC                Ethiopia Renewable Energy Development and Promotion Center
        ESIA                  Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
        ESMF                  Environmental and Social Management Framework
        ESMPs                 Environment and Social Management Plans
        GEF                   Global Environment Fund
        GHG                   Greenhouse Gas
        GoE                   Government of Ethiopia
        GSE                   Geological Survey of Ethiopia
        IDA                   International Development Association
        JETRO                 Japan External Trade Organization
        JICA                  Japan International Cooperation Agency
        MoARD                 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
        MME                   Ministry of Mines and Energy
        MoFED                 Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
        OFAG                  Office of Federal Auditor General
        OFID                  OPEC Fund for International Development
        PDO                   Project's Development Objectives
        PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
        PSMP                  Power Sector Master Plan
        PV                    Photovoltaic
        PV                    Present Value
        RAP                   Resettlement Action Plans
        RPF                   Resettlement Policy Framework
        SOE                   Statement of Expenses
        UEAP                  Universal Electricity Access Program

                                        Vice President:                  Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                                      Country Director:                  Kenichi Ohashi
                                        Sector Director:                 Inger Andersen
                                       Sector Manager:                   S. Vijay Iyer
                                     Task Team Leader:                   Raihan Elahi
                                     Program Assistant:                  Lily Wong Chun Sen

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                           i
                                                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                          ETHIOPIA
                         Additional Financing for Energy Access Project


                                          CONTENTS



  Project Paper Data Sheet
     I.   Introduction
    11.   Background and Rationale for Additional Financing
   111.   Proposed Changes
   IV.    Appraisal Summary



  Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators                        13
  Annex 2: Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures                                    18
  Annex 3: Detailed Description, Revised Project Cost and Financing                  22
  Annex 4: Revised Implementation Arrangements and Support                            36




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                ..
                                                11
                                    PAPER
                              PROJECT   DATASHEET




                    emocratic Republic of
Ethiopia                                          Sector Director: Inger Andersen
Project Name: Additional Financing for            Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
Energy Access Project                             Environmental Category: Partial
Project ID: PO49395


Borrower:
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Responsible Agencies:
Ethiopia Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo)
Contact Person: At0 Miheret Debebe, CEO
Tel: +251 (0) 111 560041; Fax: +251 (0) 111 552345
Email: eelpa@ethionet.et
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia




Revised project development objectives/outcomes

The proposed additional financing does not change the Project Development Objective.
The project's development objectives (PDO) are to: (i) establish a sustainable program
for expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the quality and adequacy of
the electricity supply in the Borrower's territory; (ii) reduce environmental degradation,
and improve the supply and efficient use of energy; (iii) reduce the barrier to the wide
spread use of renewable energy technologies; and (iv) provide technical support to the
Borrower for the institutional and capacity building of key sector agencies, and for
regulatory, fiscal and institutional reforms in the mining sector to attract private
investment.



                                            ...
                                            111
Does the project trigger any new safeguard policies?

The additional financing will finance a study to evaluate the geothermal resource in
Ethiopia. This will require drilling of wells. Due to this component, Physical Cultural
Resources (OP 4.1 1) is triggered, signaling that chance finds could be expected during
geothermal explorations.

In connection with the restructuring of the original project, it should be noted that the
Borrower has recently proposed a number of renewable energy Subprojects involving
development of micro-hydropower plants, which can be sited along waterways in the
territory of Ethiopia. Given that Project requirements for eligibility for financing of
renewable energy Subprojects by Rural Electrification Fund include evaluation against
specific eligibility criteria promulgated under the originally designed Project, including
an appropriate reference to Bank policies for projects on international waterways, it is
appropriate that OPBP 7.50 be considered triggered.

                                 For Additional Financing

[ ] Loan [XI Credit [ ] Grant
For Credits:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 180.0
       Proposed terms: Standard Credit




-New                                                                                   180.0
-Recommitted
Government of Japan                                                                     15.0
OPEC Fund for International Development




IDA
 -New                                                                                3 12.70
 -Recommitted
EC: European Investment Bank                                                           15.42
Global Environment - Associated IBRD Fund                                               4.93
Government of Japan                                                                    15.00
      Fund for International Development




                                             iv
I.     Introduction

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional financing credit in an amount of US$180 million to the Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia for the Energy Access Project, P049395, Credit 3712-ET.

2.       The proposed additional financing credit would help finance the costs associated with
scaling-up certain components of the project: (i) The Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch
component will receive US$l37 million to upgrade the distribution network and associated
substations in seven additional cities along with Addis Ababa. This will increase the
reliability, efficiency and capacity of those urban networks, allowing new consumers to be
connected in these cities; (ii) the Grid Based Rural Electrification component will receive
US$30 million to increase the population's access to electricity in rural areas. This component
will electrify about 50 new villages and connect more than 70,000 consumers in those
villages; (iii) the Renewable Energy component will receive US$lO million to evaluate and
appraise the geothermal resource base of Ethiopia and to assess whether its energy production
capacity can be diversified using this renewable energy resource base; (iv) the Institutional
Capacity Building component will receive US$3 million to update the Power Sector Master
Plan of Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo), finance training cost of EEPCo, and
strengthen the planning and procurement capacity of EEPCo. Under this project a total of
about 700,000 consumers are expected to be connected through intensification of connections
in urban and rural areas. EEPCo will finance the cost of connection from the project and shall
recover it from consumers over a period of time.

3.      The project implementation is progressing at current schedule. The Rural
Electrification Component is expected to complete electricity connection to 68 new villages
by end of June 2010. The Urban Distribution Network is carrying out renovation works
within Addis Ababa and is expected to be completed before June 20 11. Timely
implementation of this work requires effective coordination with Addis Ababa Municipality,
Addis Ababa City Roads Authority, Addis Ababa Water and Sewage Authority and Ethiopia
Telecommunication Corporation. EEPCo has demonstrated good capacity of managing this
complex project. The renewable energy component has increased its pace of implementation
after the Rural Electrification Fund Secretariat appointed qualified staff to manage its
procurement, safeguards and technical activities.

4.     The project has demonstrated good capacity in managing safeguards, procurement and
financial management activities. Under the additional financing these aspects of project
management will be further supported and strengthened.

5.      Partnership Arrangements: The Rural Electrification component of the project is
supporting the Universal Electricity Access Program (UEAP) of EEPCo. This UEAP is
greatly supported by the Government of Ethiopia and other development partners such as
African Development Bank (AfDB), OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID),
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), Saudi Fund and Kuwait Fund.




                                              1
6.     The Government of Japan is keen to develop the geothermal resource base of Ethiopia.
They have financed a surface investigation study in Aluto Langano situated in the Rift Valley
of Ethiopia. The World Bank, the Government of Japan and the Government of Ethiopia will
co-finance the appraisal and well testing to determine the level of geothermal resource
available at that site. The OFID agreed to co-finance the Urban Distribution Component to
support rehabilitation and access of new consumers in EEPCo system.

1.
 1       Background and Rationale for Additional Financing

7.      Electricity Demand & Supply: The demand of electricity in Ethiopia increased by
about 15% and 16% respectively in FY2006 and FY2007. EEPCo's total generation capacity
till November 2009 was about 878 MW. As EEPCo reached its ceiling of electricity
generation, it was unable to increase its generation in FY2008 and FY2009. Delays in Gibe I1
completion and low rainfall in Tekeze catchment area for two consecutive seasons were also
responsible for EEPCo not being able to increase supply. However, considering the load
shedding and the suppressed demand in FY2008, and in FY2009, the demand growth of
electricity was about 17% and 21% respectively in FY2008, and in FY2009.

8.      To meet this growing demand, EEPCo commissioned Tekeze Hydropower Plant (300
MW) on November 14,2009, and Gilgel Gibe I1 Hydropower Plant (420 MW) on January 13,
2010 and plans to commission Beles Hydropower Plant (460 MW) before June 2010. In
addition, EEPCo has a total of about 2,000 MW capacities of power plants at different stages
of construction. The sector has futher demonstrated good capacity in improving energy
efficiency and reducing energy demand. A detailed background of the sector is provided in
Annex 3.

9.       Project Implementation Performance: The urban electricity distribution network
rehabilitation and expansion component is being successfully implemented in .Addis Ababa.
The rural electrification component of the project is nearing completion for both the
substation works and connecting villages and will directly connect about 120,000 new
consumers in about 68 villages. The renewable energy component has enabled introduction
of solar PV Modules in Ethiopia with about 300 PV Systems installed in schools and health
posts, benefitting about 3,000 people. The energy end-use efficiency component has
delivered more than the targeted results. Against a tsirget to support manufacturing, training
and disseminating 320,000 improved cooking stoves, so far a total of one million stoves have
been installed in rural areas under this project. The demand side management scheme of this
component helped EEPCo to install about five million compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs)
financed under another ongoing Bank-funded energy sector project (Electricity Access Rural
Expansion Project) and has served to reduce peak electricity demand by about 80 MW. From
start of this project till now, the total number of electricity consumers in Ethiopia has
increased from 700 thousand to 1.87 million, representing an access rate of about 14%' at
present. The Energy Access Project has played a substantial role in achieving this result.


' This access rate refers to total Residential consumers as a ratio of total number of household in the country.
This definition of access rate is different fiom what EEPCo and GOE use. According to EEPCo, bringing
electricity infiastructure in a village is considered all households in that village have access to electricity.


                                                         2
10.     The project was approved by the Board in September 2002 and became effective in
April 2003. The project initially faced considerable delays as the initial distribution network
expansion plan for Addis Ababa, prepared by the Design Consultant, was not accepted by
EEPCo. As the design had to be redone, the physical implementation of the project was
delayed by about a year. Subsequently, the Project experienced further delays in procurement
execution due to modest competition in the provision of goods and services, significant price
increases, and the need for further due diligence. Given these delays experienced by the
project, the closing date (originally December 3 1, 2007) has been extended twice and the
present amended closing date is June 30,201 1. As of April 2010, the project disbursed about
US$105 million.

1 1.    The limitations stated above are being effectively addressed through intensive
supervision of the project. Placement of an experienced Senior Energy Specialist in Ethiopia
since October 2008 has enabled closer supervision and implementation support. Currently
almost all the procurement under the project is complete and implementation is progressing as
per revised schedule. The project performance in the last Implementation Status Report (ISR)
of November 2009 was conservatively rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The project
performance rating is expected to be upgraded during the current FY. Supporting the
requested additional finance for the Project will also help improve implementation
performance and the results of the project.

Rationale for Additional Financing

12.     Support Economic Growth: The primary rationale for the additional financing is
IDA'S continued assistance to a vital sector in Ethiopia that has implications for other
important sectors in the country. Ethiopia's potential 'to achieve high economic growth
through increased electrification is another strong reason to support this project. The
Government of Ethiopia attaches high priority to the provision of adequate and cost-effective
electricity supply and is rapidly scaling up electricity coverage and access for all its citizens.
The aims are to support economic growth nationally, enabling achievement of the MDGs, and
address the basic energy needs of the poor to improve their quality of life. EEPCo is
responsible for the planning and implementation of the Universal Electricity Access Program
(UEAP), an aggressive grid network extension program -that seeks to rapidly increase
coverage of villages to meet the Government's target of 50% village coverage by 2010 and
universal village coverage by 2015. This rapid push for "expansion" of the grid is a result of a
huge backlog that built up because of historically low investments in the sector.

13.      Expand Electricity Access: In respect to end-user access, at end of year 2009,
EEPCo had about 1.8 million customers, which translates to about 14% access. In addition,
EEPCo has been steadily ramping up its implementation capacity. In 2002, EEPCo was able
to increase connections by about 29,000; in 2005, by about 100,000; and in 2008, about
300,000 connections were achieved. Looking ahead to the next national state period (201 1-
20 1 9 , EEPCo is planning for further and significant acceleration of the grid rollout to
increase access to households, enterprises, priority social and administrative facilities, etc.
Under the proposed project, EEPCo is planning to connect more than a million consumers in




                                                3
three years. This implies that EEPCo will maintain or even enhance the annual connection
rate of approximately 300,000 achieved in 2008.

14.     Intensification in Connected Areas: Average electricity penetration to households in
connected towns is about 30%. Hence, increasing the level of electrification in connected
areas is a Government priority. Previously, connecting consumers in an electrified town was
considered as an operational activity and was only supported by EEPCo's operational budget;
thus, this activity didn't receive the attention that was required to increase the access rate.
Under this additional financing, in addition to supporting the further extension of the electrical
network, EEPCo will be supported in its effort to connect a total of about 300,000 consumers
each year.

15.     Increased Reliability and Capacity of Urban Networks: The project originally
intended to support renovation of four major cities of Ethiopia (Addis Ababa, Nazareth, Dire
Dawe and Bahir Dar) as those were in a severe state of disrepair and needed urgent attention.
Unfortunately, the funds allocated for the Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch could only
support renovation of the Addis Ababa city and an associated Load Dispatch center. Other
major cities therefore had to be left out due to funding constraints. Over the last several years,
the electricity demand in those cities has increased significantly and the existing overloaded
distribution networks have become increasingly unreliable and require immediate attention.
The proposed additional financing project will renovate the old distribution networks and
upgrade the existing substations in these cities, as well as scaling up to include some
additional cities (see paragraph 20 below). Besides increasing reliability, this intervention
will serve to enhance the network capacity, thus enabling additional new connections. By
serving new commercial and industrial loads and boosting private and public sector activities,
the enhanced supply of power will contribute to equitable growth around the entire country.

16.     Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency: The Government of Ethiopia carried
out an aggressive campaign for energy conservation and energy efficiency in 2009, as it faced
severe shortages of supply due to commissioning delays of three large hydropower plants (300
MW, 420 MW and 460 MW). This project provided technical assistance to EEPCo for
implementing a demand-side-management scheme to introduce about five million CFLs in
exchange for incandescent lamps. The investment cost of the CFLs was financed under the
Bank financed ongoing Electricity Access and Rural Expansion Project. As a result, about 80
MW of load was reduced at peak hours. As a plan to move forward, EEPCo wants all its new
consumers to meet their lighting needs from CFLs. EEPCo is now planning to replace all
incandescent, fluorescent, mercury and sodium lamps (urban street lamps) with energy saving
lamps. The expanded urban distribution and rural electrification components of this project
would therefore support this energy efficiency and conservation initiative by the government
through the proposed additional financing.

17.      Diversification of Generation Resources: More than 90% of electricity is generated
from hydropower plants in Ethiopia. Thus Ethiopia's energy generation capacity is highly
dependent on climatic changes; and droughts can significantly reduce EEPCo's electricity
generation capacity. During FY2008-2009, EEPCo faced severe generation shortages and had
to rent thermal power plants at high cost to meet electricity demand. While installing thermal


                                                4
standby generators could help EEPCo mitigate its hydropower generation risk, given the high
operating cost of thermal plants, the Government is interested in utilizing available
geothermal resources to diversify its overall generation resource mix and maintain an
affordable level of electricity generation cost. In addition, unlike diesel, geothermal energy is
a clean and renewable resource. This will further help Ethiopia to reduce its green house gas
emissions. GOE has requested IDA support to develop geothermal renewable energy
resources by financing a number of exploration and appraisal wells. The funding for such
exploration is not available from commercial sources; and such development cost is
conventionally borne by governments. Once proven resources are available, private
developers can be expected to invest in power plants that use these resources. The
Government of Japan has agreed to co-finance this component with IDA. The Japan External
Trade Organization (JETRO) recently financed a surface survey of Aluto Langano geothermal
site which indicated a potential geothermal resource base to support at least 35 MW power
plant. The additional financing project will carry out a detailed study based on well testing to
determine the optimum size of power plant that can be built using the available geothermal
resource.

18.    Capacity Building and Technical Assistance: GOE has requested IDA to support
updating its Power Sector Master Plan. EEPCo would need focused capacity building support
to improve its procurement, project implementation and contract management functions.

111.   Proposed Changes

19.     The additional financing enhances the original scope of the project. Through
restructuring, the Biomass component will be closed and its fund reallocated to other
components. The additional financing and the restructuring do not change the Project's
Development Ob;jectives, or the environmental classification (Category B).

20.     The Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch Component, in addition to upgrading the
distribution network of Addis Ababa, will further renovate the urban distribution networks of
seven other cities, which are: (i) Bahir Dar, (ii) Mekele, (iii) Jima, (iv) Awassa, (v) Dessie,
(vi) Nazareth, and (vii) Dire Dawa. The project will upgrade a total of about 19 substations
which are connected with the new power plants and are supplying electricity to these cities.
These renovations will almost double the distribution capacity of these cities.

21.     The project will connect abo.ut 50 new villages through its rural electrification
component. This will provide electricity to about 70,000 households in these villages. The
project will further support connection of new consumers in previously electrified villages and
in the urban and semi-urban areas. The project targets to add about 700,000 consumers within
the whole EEPCo system.

22.     To improve energy end-use efficiency, the additional financing project will support
installation of CFLs in the houses of the new consumers. The Project will further support
installation of energy efficient lamps for the street lights. The project initially tried to achieve
this result through its Biomass component. This component promoted manufacturing and
marketing of about a million energy efficient cook stoves - much more than the project target.
The Biomass component also intended planning, establishing and monitoring of participatory


                                                 5
sustainable natural forest management systems and fdagro-forestry schemes, which did not
work well and was highly unlikely to reach targets or have an impact. Given that improved
stoves are now sustainably marketed and GoE agreed to finance forestry activities out of its
own resources, the Biomass component will be dropped from the project. The undisbursed
funds remaining for the Biomass component will be reallocated to Urban Distribution and
Rural Electrification components.

23.     The Environmental Mitigation component of the project adequately supported capacity
building of the Environment Management Unit (EMU) of EEPCo. This EMU is now a
permanent setup in EEPCo's Corporate Planning Office and headed by an Environmental
Specialist. EEPCo has started to make appropriate provisions in its project budgets to meet the
Environmental and Social compensation costs. Any institutional or capacity building
assistance that the EMU might require to implement the additional financing project can be
supported from the Institutional Support and Capacity Building Component of the Project.

24.    Under the Renewable Energy component, the project promoted solar PV and micro
hydro projects through the Rural Electrification Fund Secretariat. While the project will
continue to support these technologies, the additional financing will support the development
of geothermal resources in Ethiopia through appraisal and evaluation of the geothermal
resource base along with several wells testing in partnership with the Government of Japan.
This activity will be implemented by EEPCo.

25,     The project originally triggered two safeguards policies: (i) Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01); and (ii) Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Under the project
restructuring, Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50) is considered triggered. The
possibility of financing of micro hydro power plants was envisaged under the original scope
of the project, under the Renewable Energy component, although to date no micro hydro
power plant subprojects have been undertaken. Given the location of the micro hydro power
plants in the territory of Ethiopia would be along waterways which include tributaries of
international waterways, it is recognized that, with the evaluation of subproject proposals,
there will be a safeguards review of each subproject against the applicable criteria of OP 7.50
- International Waterways; accordingly, notification was required to be undertaken to riparian
countries. Riparian notification according to OP 7.50 was sent by the Bank on behalf of the
Borrower, on April 7,2010, to the riparian countries. The time specified for responses was 60
days, i.e. up to June 6,2010.

26.     Under the additional financing, an additional safeguards policy considered appropriate
to trigger is Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1). The OP/BP 4.1 1 has been triggered,
signaling that a chance find could be expected during geothermal explorations. The OP/BP
4.01 will remain triggered because of the likely contamination from old transformers that will
be removed from the system during the upgrade of the urban electricity distribution network
and substations. There may be areas where there could be a high volume of birdpower line
interactions, resulting in a high death toll for birds. In addition, the geothermal exploration
will require drilling of four wells under the project. The OP/BP 4.12 will remain triggered
because there could be some minor displacement and relocation occurring as a result of loss of




                                               6
    land and damage to crops for geothermal exploration and other construction associated with
    power lines and substations. These may be ephemeral in scope.

    27.     Project Cost and Financing Plan: The project, at the present exchange rate, has a
    total credit amount of about US$160 million, of which about US$105 million has been
    disbursed. The Government has requested to reallocate funds from the Biomass component to
    the Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch component and the Rural Electrification
    component. Based on this request, the project fund will be reallocated as provided in Table 1
    below. Selected components of the project will receive additional financing. Table 1 also
    provides the proposed allocation of funds among the components, including the additional
    financing.

                    Table 1: Allocation of IDA Funds within Project Components in US$ Million

    Ref         Component Description            Original        Present   Proposed        Final Additional
                                                Allocation    Allocation Reallocation Allocation Financing
                                               SDR US$              US$          US$        US$        US$
    (i) Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch 47.5 60.1            72.40              80.00       217.00         137.00
,   (ii) Rural Electrification - of which
          (a) Grid-based expansion            31.5   39.8         48.10              66.00        96.00       30.00
          (b) Renewable Energy                 5.1    6.4          7.70               5.00        15.00       10.00
    (iii) Biomass Development                 14.7   18.6         22.50               4.70         4.70        0.00
    (iv) Environmental Mitigation              0.2    0.2          0.30               0.30         0.30        0.00
    (v) Institutional Capacity Building        5.9    7.5           9.00              4.00         7.00        3 .OO
          Total                              104.9 132.7'        160.003            160.00       340.00      180.00



    28.     The Project initially received financing from European Investment Bank (EIB) and
    Global Environment Fund (GEF). The Government of Japan and OPEC Fund for
    International Development (OFID) have shown interest to co-finance the additional financing
    of Energy Access Project. Government of Ethiopia provided about US$46 million initially to
    the project. Under the additional financing, GOE will provide about US$30 million against
    the total project cost. The overall financing plan of the project based on US$ on the date of
    agreement is provided in Table 2 below.

                                Table 2: Financing Plan of the Project in US$ Million

            Financier                                                 Original      Additional          Total
                                                                       Project      Financing         Project
            Borrower                                                        46.07         30.00         76.07
            IDA                                                            132.70        180.00        3 12.70
            EC: European Investment Bank                                    15.42          0.00          15.42
            Global Environment - Associated IBRD Fund                        4.93          0.00           4.93
            Government of Japan                                              0.00         15.00          15.00
            OPEC Fund for International Development                          0.00         20.00         20.00
            Total                                                          199.12        245.00       444.124



    *   Based on SDR vs US$ exchange rate in 2002.
        Based on SDR vs US$ exchange rate in 2010.
        Considering US$ equivalent amount of 2002 and 2010.


                                                          7
29.     Breakdown of total cost of each component supported under the Additional Financing
is provided in Table 3 below:

                         Table 3: Total Project Cost Breakdown by Component

                                                                     Estimated cost in US$ Million
                        Project Component                           Foreign      Local      Total
                                                                   Currency Currency         cost
   Urban Distribution Component
     (i) HV substation Upgrading & Rehabilitation                      89.66        0.02       89.68
     (ii) Distribution Upgrading in Seven Cities and Addis Ababa       48.87       11.89       60.76
     (iii) Intensification of Connection                               24.57        5.51       30.08
                                    -
   Urban Distribution Component Sub Total                             163.10       17.42      180.52
   Rural Electrification Component                                     26.67        4.81       3 1.48
   Renewable Energy Development                                        25.00        5.00       30.00
   Institutional capacity Building                                      3 .OO       0.00        3.00
   Total Cost of the Project                                          217.77       27.23      245.00

30.     Project Outcome Indicators: The additional financing will enhance the project's
impact and development outcomes by increasing the total number of communities benefiting
from project activities. The additional financing will expand the scope of activities under the
project, reaching a larger segment of Ethiopia's rural and urban population. The US$180
million additional finance will help to: (i) expand the populations' access to electricity and
improving the quality and adequacy of electricity supply; (ii) improve energy end-use
efficiency; (iii) develop renewable energy resources; and (iv) strengthen institutional capacity.
Outcome indicators would include: (i) number of rural and urban households, as well as
commercial and industrial businesses provided electricity accessing services; (ii) amount of
electricity losses in the country's distribution system; and (iii) number and size of PV systems
and micro-hydro projects installed.

3 1.    The original outcome indicators in the Project's results framework are thus enhanced
by placing emphasis on the number of households receiving access to electricity, number and
size of additional distributed generation - specifically through renewable energy resources,
and gains in system efficiency. The Project targets to connect about 700,000 new consumers
and reduce overall system loss to less than 10%. Detail outcome indicators are provided in
Annex 1.

32.     Risk and Mitigation: The overall project risk rating is moderate. The scaling up of
urban distribution component and the rural electrification component do not change the
original risk profile of the project implementation. The renewable energy component supports
development of geothermal energy resource under the additional financing. This activity has
triggered a new safeguards policy. The Task Team has also identified likely implementation
risks associated with this project and ensured that mitigation measures are incorporated in the
project design. Detail assessment of risks associated with the Additional Financing for
Energy Access project is provided in Annex 2.

33.     Implementation Schedule: Implementation of the current scope of activities under
the project is expected to complete before June 30,201 1. Implementation of the scale-up


                                                     8
supported by the additional financing will require additional time. The rehabilitation of the
distribution network and substation will require about two and a half years; the distribution
expansion component about three years and the geothermal well drilling and testing is
expected to require about one and a half years to complete. Therefore, with the additional
financing, the project is scheduled to close by June 30,2013.

IV.    Appraisal Summary
34.     Financial Management and Disbursement: EEPCO has adequate experience in
implementing Bank financed projects. It has good accounting software, strong internal
control procedures including an internal audit unit and adequate accounting staff that can
handle the project transactions. EEPCo uses a Corporation wide accounting software called
Agresso, which is capable of producing accounting reports for the projects in adequate
manner. EEPCo has been submitting its IFRs on time. Sometimes, EEPCo submits its entity
audit report after the agreed deadline; however, project audit reports are submitted on time
and are usually unqualified, and issues on internal control, if any, are minor and easily
corrected.

35.    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development - MoARD - closed the Biomass
component and reorganized the PMU as a result of the Business Process Re-engineering
(BPR) of the Government in 2009. The GOE has refunded the outstanding designated
account balance on the Biomass component, in the amount of US$856,406.99 on April 29,
2010. Also, MoARD submitted to the Bank the overdue audit report of the biomass
component on May 13,2010. Accordingly, the biomass component is proposed to be closed
under the project.

36.     There is no overdue project financial statements audit or IFR for the original project
components or any other projects implemented by EEPCo. However, EEPCo's entity audit
report for year ended in July 07,2009 is outstanding. Due to computer software interfacing
problems, EEPCo had been unable to integrate its billing data with the computerized
accounting system, hence delaying the audit completion. The problem has been identified and
EEPCo software contractor is working to resolve the system issues. EEPCo has agreed to
submit the overdue audit report by August 15,2010. Based on the track record of EEPCo and
the technical reasons for delay, Bank Management has waived the application of Bank Policy
OP 10.02 and agreed'to allow EEPCo to submit the entity audit report no later than August 15,
2010.

37.    Procurement Management: EEPCo has submitted to the Bank its detailed Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) after carrying out its initial identification and feasibility of the
proposed project components. It has further shared a Procurement Plan which was reviewed
by the Bank and after making suggested revision, the Procurement Plan is now approved.
EEPCo is planning to implement its Urban Distribution Upgrading Component by using
Works contracts. Renovation of old substations will follow Supply and Installation contracts.
Domestic firms participating in these tenders would receive a maximum of 7.5% price
preference according to World Bank Procurement Guidelines. For the Rural Electrification
Component, to expand access and intensify connections, it plans to procure materials and then
use labor contracts and its own labor force for erection works. Maximum preference for


                                               9
domestically manufactured goods is 15% of the CIP price according to the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines. The additional financing credit will finance the cost of works
contracts, supply and installation contracts, labor contracts and cost of materials. EEPCo will
implement the geothermal resource evaluation component with support from IDA and
Government of Japan. Activities supported by IDA finance for this component will follow
World Bank Procurement Guidelines: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
dated May 2004, revised October 2006"; and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and May 20 10".

38.     Procurement Capacity: Ethiopia has a satisfactory procurement law that was revised
in July 2009, and enabling Directives. The regional states have been provided with prototypes
of the procurement law and directives based on which to enact similar procurement
legislation. The procurement law establishes the Public Procurement and Property
Administration Agency (PPA), the regulator, with the mandate to set national public
procurement standards and build procurement capacity nationally. PPA has issued Standard
Bidding Documents for the selection of consultants and for the procurement of goods and
works and is in the process of publishing a public procurement manual. However, PPA has
no jurisdiction over enterprises like EEPCo that are established under the Public Enterprises
proclamation. EEPCo has elected to follow the PPA law, and has prepared its own
procurement guidelines and manual. Procurement oversight for EEPCo is provided by its
Board of Directors and the Electricity sector regulator.

39.    EEPCo had been using project design and supervision consultants to conduct
procurement activities to complement its contracts management capacity. However, these
consultants did not perform satisfactorily in this area. The Task Team's Procurement
Specialist has recently carried out a procurement capacity assessment of EEPCo. The
assessment indicates that EEPCO has structural and procurement skills gaps and suggested a
number of recommendations to improve the procurement performance of EEPCO. The
assessment found that EEPCo procurement function falls under the Finance and Supply Chain
Process -- a product of the recent Business Process Re-engineering (BPR). However, EEPCo
has no Procurement Officers on its staff and procurement is conducted by Project Staff as an
additional task. To harmonize with the national standard, EEPCo has agreed to create a
Procurement Unit. EEPCo's project management capacity including procurement and contract
management require strengthening. The ongoing Business Process Reengineering (BPR)
provides an opportunity to review EEPCo' s procurement management arrangement and
accommodate the above developments.

40.      Based on the reqommendations of the assessment, EEPCo has agreed to appoint a
Procurement Specialist with qualification and experience satisfactory to IDA. This
Procurement Specialist will support EEPCo in managing procurement activities in World
Bank financed projects. EEPCo has further agreed to share with the Bank its strategy to
institutionalize procurement function coming out of the BPR Exercise. EEPCo's procurement
capacity building activities would be designed and financed under the Project.

41.    Public Procurement Law: A new public procurement law "The Federal Government
of Ethiopia Proclamation and Property Administration Proclamation" No. 649/2009 was


                                              10
enacted by Parliament on July 7,2009, repealing the existing public procurement
Proclamation No. 430/2005, "Determining Procedures of Public Procurement and
Establishing its Supervisory Agency Proclamation of the Federal Democratic Republic
Government of Ethiopia", dated January 12,2005. Though the Proclamation No. 649/2009
had been published, the enabling Directives had not yet been issued. Thus a detailed analysis
of the impact of these new national competitive procurement procedures on the procurement
of activities under the Project has not been possible.

42.     Key Safeguard Policy Issues and their Management: The safeguard category B of
the project will be maintained as the additional financing will not have any significant and/or
irreversible adverse environmental and social issues. The project upgrades the existing
distribution network in selected cities and rehabilitates existing substations which have
saturated their capacity to supply additional load. The Geothermal Development Component
of the project will appraise and explore the capacity of geothermal resources, which will
require drilling exploration wells to study and understand the capacity of the resource.

43.     However, two new safeguards policies have been triggered, namely, (i) Physical
Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1); and (ii) Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7-50),
the details of which are included in Annex 4. The original safeguard policies triggered
continue to apply, which are: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01); and (ii)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).

44.    The project authorities have finalized the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) for screening of individual projects and have further prepared a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The Bank has reviewed and disclosed these
documents prior to appraisal.

45.     Economic and Financial Analysis: The economic and financial assessments for the
project were originally calculated for four of its sub-components, as shown in the Table 4
below.

                                Table 4: Economic Analysis of the Project

                                               NPV @ 10%       NPV @ 12%    BenefitKOst   ERR
                                                 US% M           US$ M         Ratio      (YO)
   Total Project of Addis Ababa                   76.1            45.9          1.66      18
   Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion      7.7              1.5          1.75      13
   Load Dispatch Component                        17.0            11.7         5.45       20
   Rural Electrification Component                21.0             7.7          1.78      14

46.   Due to cost increases, especially for the Addis Ababa Distribution and Rehabilitation
sub-component, the NPV is reduced, but still significantly attractive at US$50.8 million at
10% discount rate.

47.      EEPCo has carried out detailed financial and economic analysis of the urban
distribution upgrading component which shows that project's financial and economic internal
rate of returns are 14% and 20% respectively. At 10% discount rate, the financial and



                                                   11
economic Net Present Values of the project are about US$59 million and US$161 million
respectively.

48.   ' The additional financing and project restructuring has involved an exception to Bank
Policy OP 10.02 (Financial Management) which has been approved by the Bank management.
The waiver was sought for two outstanding audit reports for the Energy Access Project: The
first was the entity audit report due from the EEPCo to be submitted on August 15,2010; and
the second was the project audit report on the Biomass component due from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD). Since the time when Bank Management
approved the waiver to allow Negotiations and Board presentation to proceed, the
Government has submitted an acceptable audit for the Biomass component. Submission of
the entity audit report for EEPCo will be made by August 15,2010 as per approved waiver.
This commitment has been incorporated as a dated covenant in the Financing Agreement for
the additional financing. The context for the waiver for these two outstanding audit reports is
discussed in paragraphs 35 and 36 above.




                                              12
3
2
3
U
;
5
3
3
Y
    d
    e,
    0
    'E
i 8
\
b
          5 32 s
          3 $ 4
                        --
                        IIE
                             e
                             .s
                             E
                                  0
                                  0
                                  8.
                                  d
                                  d
                                       3
                                       m
                                       .
                                       Y
                                       3
                                       10

C

                                       5
.r
b
C
c
     2
                                       .
.r
C                                      Y
E
     ti



-p
                                       3
                                       n
                                       I

c
v
L




b                                      0
b
8
E
v
c


E                  0                   0


C
f
Q
                   6
                   E
                   s
                   v)

                   0
           0       0
          0

          2
          0




          0
          0
          0
          w




          0
          0
          0
          d




          0
          3

     V
     8
P    0


f     E
.I



      s
          0

a    *
     z"
                  Annex 2: Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures

               Ethiopia: Additional Financing for Energy Access Project

1.      The risk assessment of the project as rated originally was moderate. Most of the
risks were associated with EEPCo and EREDPC's ability to adopt the low cost
construction designs and lack of community-based development schemes. EEPCo has
now mainstreamed its construction designs and are also testing different standards.
EREDPC has identified five sites for small hydropower plant development. So the risks
identified at the initial stage had been mitigated successfully.

2.      The additional financing supports geothermal resource development, a new
activity not identified initially. The risks associated with this new scheme have been
discussed in detail in the following matrix. The Country Level risks as identified by the
Country Management Unit are reflected in the matrix below.


                  Risks                               Mitigation Measures               Residual
                                                                                       Risk Level

Macroeconomic Framework: Ethiopia             The IMF, which has a program with          Low
continues to register strong economic         the government under its Exogenous
growth, albeit at a lower rate than the       Shocks Facility operation, is closely
double digit growth of the last five years.   monitoring the macro-economic
Ethiopia's macro situation, which was         performance. Preliminary results
battered by mounting balance of               through September 2009 indicate that
payments pressure and high level of           the ESF program is on track, with
inflation, has improved in the past one       most targets achieved.
year. However, the recovery process
remains fragile and vulnerable to external    The Bank is also assisting GoE to
and weather-related shocks. One of the        address some of the structural
areas of concern is non-food price            problems through its investment
inflation, which stood at 18.4% in            projects, including areas such as
December 2009 - the highest it has been       private sector development,
in the last seven months. Also, while the     modernization of the financial sector,
government has managed to stabilize the       and land markets, though progress has
macro economy, the progress on                been less than satisfactory in some
addressing structural constraints has been    areas.
slow and intermittent.
Country Engagement With World                 The current World Bank Country             Low
Bank: There is high demand and strong         Assistance Strategy for 2008-20 1 1 is
ownership by GoE at national level, and       closely aligned with the PASDEP,
engagement has been positive. GoE             and builds on the strong collaboration
consulted closely with Bank and donors        that already exists between the Bank
in preparing the Plan for Accelerated and     and GoE.
Sustained Development to End Poverty
(PASDEP), adopted by Parliament in            Our forthcoming CAS Progress
2006.                                         Report will look for ways to further
                                              build on this alignment.


                                                 18
                  Risks                                Mitigation Measures                Residual
                                                                                         Risk Level
GoE has begun work on a successor to
PASDEP but has not yet engaged deeply
with Dartners on it.
Country Governance: Analysis of               The current CAS notes the risk that        Substantial
Governance in Ethiopia is characterized       political governance issues could
by (i) strong concerns expressed by many      impact the pace and sustainability of
development partners and domestic             development in Ethiopia, and
stakeholders on democratic governance         suggests principles to help adjust,
(weakly contested local elections in April    Bank support to future governance
2008, restrictive CSO and media laws,         developments. The Bank's program
alleged human rights abuses, notably in       addresses this risk by, amongst other
Ogaden), illustrated through the tight        things, support to the governance
controls on flows of information critical     agenda in PASDEP, in coordination
to development outcomes (e.g. food            with donor partners, as one of four
shortage); contrasted with (ii) a steady      CAS pillars. Key areas for Bank
trend of improvement in state capacity        support include decentralization,
(as evidenced by strong performance on        public financial management, anti-
World Governance Indicators covering          corruption and local-level
"Government Effectiveness" and by             accountability and empowerment, to
improvements in service delivery              continue to strengthen supply side
indicators).                                  responses. Assurances have also been
                                              sought to ensure demand-side
The 20 10 election is the next flashpoint     activities in social accountability will
in domestic politics and the risks of         not be affected by the CSO law.
political turbulence are substantial due to   Despite this, there has overall been a
the recent track record of the National       reduction in political space and
Electoral Board of Ethiopia (NEBE), the       reduced voice and the risk remains
dominance of the ruling EPRDF and the         substantial.
arrest of opposition leaders.
                                              Donor partners are attempting to
                                              support the NEBE to ensure a fairly
                                              organized election.
Systemic Corruption: Indicators of            In 2008, the Bank launched an                 Low
corruption in Ethiopia (TI, WGI)              ongoing diagnostic effort to try and
continue to report domestic views, rather     better understand the levels, scope
than international views that benefit from    and nature of corruption. This will
cross-country comparison. In-depth            enable better targeting of anti-
sector level diagnosis is beginning to        corruption mechanisms, and reduce
suggest that corruption in Ethiopia is less   project risks. The Public Sector
frequent and of a lower magnitude than        Capacity Building Project (PSCAP)
in other low income African countries;        focuses on strengthening government
and that merits and ethics are higher than    systems for ensuring that public funds
previously measured. The lack of              are used transparently and effectively;
separation of party and state remains a       and has made significant efforts to
key area of concern. There have been          improve human resource management
allegations that the benefits from some       over an extended period. The
projects have been subject to political       Protection of Basic Services program
capture.                                      (PBS) supports increased
                                              accountability and transparency in the


                                                  19
                 Risks                              Mitigation Measures               Residual
                                                                                     Risk Level
                                          decentralized delivery of basic
                                          services at national, regional and local
                                          levels. Both PBS and the Productive
                                          Safety Nets Program (PSNP) rely on
                                          independent surveys, and other tools,
                                          to ensure the risk of political capture
                                          is minimized
Other Risks: While weather patterns       The Bank is seeking to mitigate the        Substantial
were favorable from 2004 to 2007,         impact of drought on development,
Ethiopia had problems with the spring     and help the country to become more
(belg) rains in 2008, and with the main   climate resilient, through its support
(meher) rains in 2009. The resulting      to PSNP, Food Security, land use
incidence of food shortages has reminded management, and environmental
us that vulnerability to drought is an    programs. In addition, we
ever-present risk, and that Ethiopia is   restructured our portfolio to release
likely to be significantly impacted by    funds to finance fertilizer needed to
climate change.                           ensure a good harvest in 2009, and to
                                          top up support for PSNP.
Domestic tensions, particularly in the
Ogaden region, and problems on            Conflict risks are very difficult to
Oromia's borders due to spillover effects mitigate except though the long-term
of continuing tensions with Eritrea also  process of building interdependencies
present important risks.                  among countries in the Horn. In this
                                          context we are exploring or
                                          supporting a number of regional
                                          projects in the roads and energy
                                          sectors. We also seek to address
                                          internal conflict risks through efforts
                                          with the emerging regions (e.g. better
                                          service delivery) to check the
                                          imbalance in growth and poverty.
1 . Sector Level Risks
 1
EEPCo Management Capacity:                EEPCo is increasingly outsourcing its         Low
EEPCo is managed professionally.          construction activities. All urban
However, EEPCo has been facing growth distribution network and substation
challenges. It has doubled its generation upgrading works under the project
capacity in one year. Some large power will be constructed using qualified
plants are under construction. It has     contractors. This will help EEPCo to
doubled its distribution network over the concentrate on developing its
last several years. EEPCo needs to        supervision and management
enhance its management capacity to        capacities and sustain its growth
manage its growing operation and          potential.
maintenance challenges.
EEPCo Procurement Capacity:               Following a Procurement Capacity           Moderate
EEPCo had been using project design       Assessment by the Bank, EEPCo
and supervision consultants to conduct    agreed to appoint qualified
procurement activities to complement its Procurement Specialists to help
ICB contracts management caDacitv.        EEPCo build its in-house



                                               20
                  Risks                                Mitigation Measures
                                                            I
                                                                                         I    Residual
                                                                                             Risk Level
However, these consultants? performance        procurement capacity. The Specialist
in procurement activities was not              will provide on the job training, help
satisfactory. As a result, project             EEPCo to prepare procurement plans,
procurement execution has experienced          prepare bid documents, conduct bid
considerable delays and implementation         evaluations and help EEPCo award
challenges.                                    contracts to the winning bidders. The
                                               Procurement Specialist will work
                                           I   with its Project Management Units.
111. Implementation Level Risks
Geothermal Component: EEPCo will               Refurbishment and certification of the          Low
use GSE owned rig, which has been              drilling rig will be carried out by the
stored for about a decade. This drilling       manufacturer and supervised by
rig may malfunction during operation.          international exDert.
Capacity of Drilling Crew: Capacity of         Several experts will provide training         Moderate
drilling rig crew regarding the handling       courses for the Ethiopian crew, before
of the equipment, drill, casings,              drilling starts, and follow up/assist
cementation and directional drilling           during the project.
could affect implementation quality.
Dry hole: The drilled wells may be dry         Reservoir of the geothermal field               Low
and not have any geothermal fluids.            already confirmed to exist and have
                                               enough potential. However, a dry
                                              hole cannot be completely excluded,
                                               even with directional drilling.
Infrastructure Problems: There could All facilities will be according to                     Moderate
be several infrastructure problems arising international standards and evaluated
from drill pads, roads, bridges, etc..        by international, accredited experts
                                              before use.
Safety Issues: Ensuring safety for the         Several experts will provide training         Moderate
drilling rig crew will be the responsibility courses for the Ethiopian crew, before
of EEPCo to manage properly.                  drilling starts, and follow up/assist
                                              duringthe project.
Safeguards: Issues such as pollution,         Environment and Social Management              Moderate
noise, chance find, resettlement, etc.        Framework has been prepared
should be managed properly.                   detailing the procedures of preparing
                                              Environment and Social Impact
                                              Assessment and Management Plans.
                                       Overall Risk Moderate
~




Rating of risks on a four-point scale - High, Substantial, Moderate, Low - according to the
likelihood of occurrence and magnitude of potential adverse impact.




                                                  21
        Annex 3: Detailed Description, Revised Project Cost and Financing

             Ethiopia: Additional Financing for Energy Access Project



I.     Sector Background

1.      Electricity Demand: Ethiopia had less than 6% of its population receiving
electricity from the grid network before FY2000, with only about 574,000 consumers
connected. Over the last several years the number of consumers has increased by almost
three folds with about 1.87 million consumers connected by March 2010, representing
about 14% of the population. The demand of electricity in Ethiopia increased by about
15% and 16% respectively in FY2006 and FY2007. EEPCo's total generation capacity
till November 2009, was about 878 MW. As EEPCo reached its ceiling of electricity
generation, it was unable to increase its generation in FY2008, and FY2009. Delays in
Gibe I1 completion and low rainfall in Tekeze catchment area for two consecutive
seasons were also responsible for EEPCo not being able to increase supply. However,
considering the load shedding and the suppressed demand in FY2008, and in FY2009, the
demand growth of electricity was about 17% and 21% respectively in FY2008, and in
FY2009 and estimated to be 25% in FY2010. The following Table A3.1 illustrates the
growth in electricity demand over the last several years.

                    Table A3.1: Growth in Electricity Demand in Ethiopia

                                   FY 2005   FY 2006      FY 2007 FY 2008   FY 2009
        Total Generation    GWh     2,587     2,890        3,332   3,532     3,728
        Total Sales         GWh     2,095     2,408        2,799   2,966     3,131
        Load Shedding       GWh                                     298       470
        Suppressed Demand   GWh                                               363
        Total Demand        GWh     2,095         2,408    2,799   3,264     3,965
        Demand Growth       O
                            Y                      15%      16%     17%      21%

2.      EEPCo expects to continue expanding its rural network to connect villages at the
same pace as of today. To support the continuous GDP growth it expects an increase in
its commercial and industrial consumer demand over the years. An illustrative breakdown
of the consumption pattern among various consumer categories is provided in Chart 1
below.




                                             22
          Chart 1: Share of ConsumDtion bv Different Consumer Categories in FY2009




3.     Chart 1 shows that EEPCo has a good consumer mix with 38% Domestic
consumption, 3 8% industrial consumption and 24% commercial consumption. EEPCo's
average load factor is about 57%. It has also experienced good demand growth in all its
consumer categories over the last several years.

4.      Demand Forecast: EEPCo has developed three electricity demand projections
for the period of FY2010 to FY2030. These three scenarios are as follows:

   0   Target Case - A high growth based on 12% pa (non-agricultural) GDP growth,
       which gives energy growth rates of 17% pa to FY20 18, and 12% pa thereafter.
   0   Moderate I - Based on an 8% pa GDP growth rate, which gives energy growth
       rates of about 12.5% pa to FY2018, and 8.2% pa thereafter.
   0   Moderate I1 - Based on historical rates of about 13% pa (seen in last 5 years) until
       FY 2018, and 8.3% pa thereafter (based on the average for FY1991-2008).

5.     On top of these scenarios on local demand growth, EEPCo then factors in the
export demand. The export demand is projected to increase from 300 MW in FY2011, to
about 1,000 MW in FY2013, and to about 2,000 MW in FY2018. Based on these
demand projections, GOE has started to construct several power plants to meet the
expected increasing demand. However, given the electricity crisis faced by EEPCo in
FY2008, and FY2009, EEPCo introduced several energy efficiency measures to manage
its demand more efficiently.

6.       Demand Side Management: The Project supported several demand side
initiatives. The Ethiopia Renewable Energy Development and Promotion Center
(EREDPC), an implementing agency of the Energy Access Project, promoted installation
of energy efficient cooking stoves, resulting in almost 1 million units already installed.
They represent a 50% increase in fuel efficiency and significant reduction of indoor
smoke.

7.      In response to the recent power crisis, EEPCo replacement about five million
inefficient incandescent lamps with compact fluorescent lamps (CFL) and reduced peak
electricity demand by about 80 MW. After achieving this result, GOE decided to make


                                             23
CFLs attractive to electricity consumers and to ensure sustainable use of CFLs, has
waived customs duty and VAT from the CFLs. In phases, GOE plans to ban incandescent
lamp use in Ethiopia. EEPCo is now installing capacitors to reduce technical losses and
using energy efficient lamps for street lighting. These initiatives are supported by the
Bank-financed Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project (EAREP).

8.      As per Ministry of Mines and Energy's (MME) request, the Bank is examining
the profile and consumption patterns of electric injera baking stoves which represent a
significant part of the residential load and present a high coincidence factor, driving the
peak load in the morning and in the evening. These energy intensive devices (3.5 kW)
are inefficient and overload the distribution system. As part of the study, some sort of
automatic ripple control is being considered, with significant benefits in terms of Demand
Side Management (DSM).

9.      The Ethiopia Electric Agency (EEA) has been entrusted with the responsibility to
draft policy, regulations and laws to ensure energy efficient practices in Ethiopia. The
GOE with the help of MME, EEA, EEPCo and EREDPC have carried out several
awareness campaigns to inform consumers on how to reduce energy use, conserve energy
and become energy efficient. EEPCo is considering establishment of a self-rationing
scheme by assigning consumption quotas for customers and temporary use of penalty for
excessive energy consumption. EEA is considering implementation of international
energy labeling until a similar scheme is developed in the country. EEPCo has also
requested EEA to review the tariff due to the devaluation of Birr and all these will have a
positive impact in reducing the excess demand for electricity.

10.    Brief description of the components scaled up using the additional financing is
provided below.

11.    Urban Distribution Rehabilitation Component

1 1.     When the project was conceived back in 2002, it aimed at enhancing supply
reliability and efficiency using rehabilitation and upgrading as an instrument. The
upgrading and rehabilitation work focused on the 15 kV systems and sought to improve
network reliability by reducing the number and duration of supply interruptions. Bare
conductors were therefore to be replaced by insulated ABC cables, and the capacity of
distribution transformers was to be upgraded by using additional or higher capacity units.
Improvements in operational procedures and the fitting of fault passage indicators were
also indicated as a means to achieve faster restorations. Preparation of distribution master
plans and standard distribution design and construction manuals were also among the
deliverables expected.

12.     Initial scope of this project included rehabilitation of Addis Ababa and three other
major cities - (i) Nazareth, (ii) Bahir Dar, and (iii) Dire Dawa. However, since the bid
prices came out significantly higher than the expected price, the project had to reduce its
scope and limited itself in only renovating Addis Ababa. Over the years, electricity
demand in Ethiopia increased significantly and hence GOE requested the Bank to provide


                                            24
additional financing to increase supply capacity of Addis Ababa distribution network
more than what is targeted under the project and also support rehabilitation of seven
major cities in Ethiopia - (i) Nazareth, (ii) Bahir Dar, (iii) Dire Dawa, (iv) Dessi, (v)
Jima, (vi) Mekele and (vii) Awassa.

13.     Limitations of the Original Scope: Given the disproportionate rise in power
demand compared to the anticipated upgrading and rehabilitation works in the project,
the urban rehabilitation and upgrading project would not achieve the stated outcome
under the current situation. This is because the current situation requires an intervention
on the high voltage side of the network while the original scope was limited to the
medium and low voltage lines only. Apart from this limitation in terms of voltage, the
scope was further limited in terms of geographic coverage as it only addressed upgrading
of Addis Ababa and no other major cities.

14.      Current Status of the High Voltage Network: Since the state of the high
voltage substations and network was not as worse as it is now, the focus of the Urban
Distribution Rehabilitation component, when it was conceived in 2002, was primarily on
the 15 kV outgoing feeders. However, the situation has now changed calling for major
rehabilitation and upgrading works on substations and distribution lines. Upgrading of
substations and transmission lines, especially in the Addis Ababa and other urban areas
has become critical owing to the significant growth in demand and the aging of the
facilities. Because of the accelerated growth in demand and lack of commensurate .
upgrading, transformers in populated areas have become seriously overloaded, leading to
frequent tripping and temperature rise.

15.      The supply situation is further aggravated because of malfunctioning and under
capacity of switchgear equipment. The problem has become so serious and widespread
that it is affecting major substations like Gafarsa, Kaliti I, and Sabatta in Addis Abeba as
well. They are all connected to power plants, and are the three main substations feeding
Addis Ababa. These substations are among the oldest (42 years) and the transformers are
not anymore in a position to serve the increasing demand. The SF6 breakers at Gafarssa
are too slow to restore the gas pressure after tripping. The upgrading obviously calls for
a corresponding upgrade in ancillary switchgear equipment and forms one of the major
components of this additional financing project. A similar situation prevails in the other
substations included in this project.

16.      Current Status of the Distribution Network: EEPCo's distribution network is
comprised of distribution lines operating at medium voltages of 15 kV, and 33 kV. Low
voltage power is supplied at 220 volts single phase, and 380 volts three phase. In contrast
to the modest length of 22,662 km early in 2004, the distribution network has now grown
to around 120,000 km in length. As in the case of the high voltage network, the
distribution network also suffers congestion and poor performance requiring upgrades
and rehabilitation. Table A3.2 below gives a glimpse of the distribution network
reliability performance. The numbers relate to the network performance from July 2009
to January 2010.




                                             25
                       Table A3.2: Fault Statistics of Distribution Lines

                               15 kV interruption data                Low voltage interruption data
         Name of                    Frequency of                       No of              Duration
                       No. Of l5     Interruption    Duration       interruption
   No      Town        kV feeders
                                          No.              Hr.             No.               Hr.
    1   BahirDar           7               284             224        3,444                6,199
    2   Nazareth           7               25 1            184        2,992                2,656
    3   Jimma              4               289             162        4,140                 7,452
    4   Mekele             5               189             157         1,994               2,120
    5   Awassa             8               283             133         1,323                1,435
    6   DireDawa           5               167             168        2,703                 1,178
    7   Dessie             4               133             141         1,828                1,277
        Total              40             1,596           1,169       18,424               22,317

Revised Scope of Urban Network Rehabilitation Component

17.     The additional finance is requested as a continuation of the Urban Distribution
Rehabilitation component that aims to improve network reliability and loss reduction
through the upgrading and rehabilitation of the distribution network and substations. The
scaled up component includes intensification of access using distribution expansion as an
instrument to reach more domestic customers. Hence this component will support three
main activities, (i) upgrading and rehabilitation of distribution network in seven cities;
(ii) upgrading and rehabilitation of substations; and (iii) intensification of connections.

Cost Estimate of the Urban Distribution Component

18.    The cost estimate for the three activities under this component is provided in
Table A3.3.

                  Table A3.3: Cost Estimate of the Urban Distribution Component

                                                             Estimated cost in US$ Million
                      Project Component                     Foreign         Local      Total
                                                            Currency     Currency      Cost
        Urban Distribution Component
          (i) HV substation Upgrading & Rehabilitation             89.66           0.02     89.68
         (ii) Distribution Upgrading and Rehabilitation
               in Seven Cities and Addis Ababa                     48.87         11.89      60.76
        (iii) Intensification of Connection                        24.57          5.51      30.08
        Total for Urban Distribution Component                    163.10         17.42     180.52

19.     Substation Upgrading and Rehabilitation: The substation upgrading task
addresses overloading and operational problems caused by capacity limitation and aging
of equipment. The upgrading of transformers, switchgear, and protection and
communications equipment are therefore the activities expected within this component of
the project.

20.     In some of the substations the upgrading work consists in a complete rebuilding
of the existing substations. The highly overloaded and aging substations at Addis West


                                                  26
       and Nefas Silk (south of Addis Ababa) are to be replaced by GIS substations since the
       area is highly populated.

       21.     Under the present conditions the upgrading of substations cannot be undertaken
       without mobile substations. EEPCo has therefore included the procurement of mobile
       substations in the project portfolio. Table A3.4 below shows the summary of the
       activities and the estimated cost.

             Table A3.4: Summary Cost Estimate for HV Substations Upgrading and Rehabilitation

                                                  Total
                                               Estimated
Item             Substation I Equipment/                                           Remark
                                              Amount in
                                                  USD
  I REHABILITATION & REFURBISHMENT WORKS
    1. Kaliy-1 230/132/45/15 kV substation     4,817,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    2. Sebeta-1 230/132/45/15 kV substation    2,983,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    3. Gefersa 230/132/66/45/15 kV substation  2,306,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    4. Cotobe 132/45/33/15 kV substation        1,173,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    5. Weregenu 132/15 kV substation           3,232,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    6. Kality-I1 132/15 kV substation          3,256,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    7. Kaliti North 132/145 kV substation         509,000.00 Refurbish and upgrade existing substation
    8. Alamata 230/132 kV substation            1,719,755.00 Substation upgrading
 I1 SUBSTATIONS TO BE UPGRADED AND REBUILT
    1. Nefas Silk substation                   5,877,135.92 Construction of new 132/15 kV GIS substation
    2. Addis West substation                   6,625,508.17 Construction of new 132/15 kV GIS substation
    3. Dabat substation                        3,833,246.12 Refurbish and upgrade existing 66 kV substation
    4.Dire Dawa-I substation                   4,626,028.54 Refurbish the existing 132 kV substation
    5. Dessie substation                       6,226,253.18 Construction of new 132/66/15 kV AIS substation
    6. Adds North substation                     400,641.74 Refurbish existing 15 kV switchgear
    7. Arba Minch substation                     350,561.52 Refurbish existing 15 kV switchgear
    8. Debre Markos substation                 3,178,504.78 Upgrade existing 230/66/15 kV transformer capacity
    9. Awassa substation                       1,095,579.84 Upgrade existing 132/15 kV substation capacity
    10. Adwa substation                        1,095,579.84 Upgrade existing 132/15 kV substation capacity
    1 1, Maychew substation                      772,178.33 Upgrade existing 66/15 kV substation capacity
111 MOBILE SUBSTATIONS, PROTECTION AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEM REFURBISHMENT
    1. Mobile Substation                      22,648,229.98 New mobile substations during rehabilitation
    2. Projection System Refurbishment         2,287,016.84 Rehabilitation of existing Communication System
    3. Communication System Refurbishment      3,907,899.15 OPGW installation on live lines
    TOTAL ESTIMATED COST                      82,920,118.95
    Engineering and Design and Supervision 3%  2,487,603.57
    SUB TOTAL                                 85.407.722.52
    Price Contingency 5%                       412701386.13
                  GRAND TOTAL                 89,678,108.64


       22.     Distribution Upgrading and Rehabilitation: The distribution upgrading and
       rehabilitation project envisages increasing supply capacity, reducing power loss, and
       enhancing the distribution network performance in Addis Ababa and seven other cities.
       This will be achieved by upgrading and rehabilitating the distribution lines and
       transformers. In the cities out of Addis Ababa the project will replace the medium
       voltage wires by high capacity conductors. The number of feeders will also be increased
       and this is expected to increase the distribution network capacity by two fold in the seven
       cities.




                                                     27
23.     Within Addis the project concentrates on the low voltage lines. Wires of 25 mm2
will be'replaced by 50 mm2,and the existing 50 mm2 wires will be replaced by 95 mm2
conductors. Transformers will also be upgraded. This is expected to give a combined
50% increase in the capacity of the low voltage lines. Estimated cost of this activity is
provided in Table A3.5.

       Table A3.5: Cost Estimate for Seven Cities and Addis Ababa Distribution Rehabilitation

           No.     NameofTown         - . Cost for Renovation by City - In US$ Cost
                                               .
                                      r'oreign Currency Local Currency Total
            1    Nazareth                      4,813,067           1,304,534  6,117,601
            2    Awassa                        3,631,327             927,256  4,558,583
            3    Mekele                        4,3 19,004          1,136,565  5,455,569
            4    Jimma                         2,608,549             675,800  3,284,349
            5    DireDawa                      4,466,275           1,197,447  5,663,722
            6    BahirDar                      3,972,732           1,040,2 12 5,012,944
            7    Dessie                        2,658,937             690,849  3,349,786
            8    Addis Ababa                  20,070,443           4,347,890 24,4 18,333
                 Total                        46,540,334          11,320,553   57,860,887
                 Contingency 5%                2,327,O 17            566,028    2,893,044
                 Grand Total                  48,867,351          11,886,581   60,753,931

24.     Intensification of Connection: Intensification of connection is the third activity
of this component and aims at procuring different types of distribution materials required
for the connection of new customers in all regions of EEPCo. The items to be procured
consist in various distribution hardware materials and transformers.

25.    Expected Outcome: Upon successful implementation of this component, major
capacity barriers will be removed and access to electricity enhanced. This will also
improve network reliability. The upgrading work on the substations is critically
important in terms of attaining the stated outcome from the Urban Distribution
Rehabilitation component. The substation upgrading and rehabilitation work is
instrumental for the attainment of the project benefits because:

        It will increase the capacity of the substations in Addis from 53 1 MVA to 822
        MVA enabling them to feed the upgraded medium voltage distribution lines. The
        capacity of the substations in the seven cities will also rise from 225 MVA to 325
        MVA. This will ensure the intensification of connection in both urban and rural
        areas, and the full utilization of the upgraded power distribution infrastructure.
   0    The upgrading will raise the capacity of the substations in the sub-transmission
        network of Addis from 669 MVA to 1443 MVA.
   0    The elimination of operational problems caused by aging and poorly functioning
        components will also result in a reduced fault frequency, and faster fault location
        and restoration of faulted lines.
   0    The upgrading and rehabilitation of the communication and protection systems
        will also help enhance system monitoring and control and hence network
        reliability.


                                                28
26.     As a result of the changeover to higher capacity distribution conductors, and the
increase in the number of feeders, the medium voltage distribution capacity in the seven
cities except Addis Ababa is expected to increase by two fold. Within Addis Ababa, the
upgrading of conductors and distribution transformers will raise the low voltage
distribution capacity by at least 50%.

27.     Apart from reducing power loss, the reduction in fault frequency and duration,
coupled with the increased number of customers will result in improved financial revenue
for EEPCo. Further it is believed that the provision of adequate and reliable supply in
both urban and rural areas will improve social welfare and accelerate economic activities.
Adverse impacts on the environment caused by fire wood and charcoal production which
lead to deforestation and poor soil performance will also be reduced.

28.     Implementation Arrangements: The scaled up Urban Distribution component
project is planned to be executed using Works Contracts and Supply and Installation
Contracts. Relevant work units within EEPCo will be assigned for the project
implementation. These will correspond to the three main activities under this component
and will consist of:

       1. Team 1: Distribution Upgrading and Rehabilitation
       2. Team 2: Substation Upgrading and Rehabilitation
       3. Team 3: Intensification of Connection

29.    Along with this team of internal staff, EEPCo will also have the following
specialists and a coordinator.

       1. Project Coordinator
       2. Procurement Specialist
       3, Safeguard Specialist
       4. Environmental and Social Impact Monitoring Specialist, and
       5 . Finance Specialist.

111.     ,   Rural Electrification Component - Grid Based

30.      The Government of Ethiopia has embraced increasing electricity access as a pillar
of its strategy for promoting income-generating activates and social services outside
major urban centers in order to improve living standards and reduce poverty. As a part of
a program, Universal Electricity Access Program (UEAP) is designed to electrify most of
the villages over a ten-year horizon through extension of the grid. The main objective of
UEAP is to electrify approximately 50% of villages within five years, with a long-term
view to connect virtually all villages to the grid in a ten-year horizon.

3 1.    This scaled-up component of the project will bring electricity to 50 rural villages
that currently live without any significant supply of electricity; it will enable more than
70,000 households to have access to electricity in their homes and will provide businesses


                                             29
(including shops, artisans, flour mills) with access to reliable and affordable electricity.
This will provide enhanced income-generating opportunities for the community, support
strengthened health care, improve agricultural productivity and support improved
education services.

32.     Activities supported under this component are as follows:

           Connecting about 50 rural towns/villages (US$22 million). drawing sub-
           transmission lines to electrify villages and erection of low voltage lines and
           transformers.

           Connecting;about 70.000 household to the distribution system (US$5.75
           million) in the villages electrified under this component, including installation
           of meters and dropdown wires to homes.

           Installation of efficient public street lighting (US$0.46 million) in the villages
           electrified under this component.

           Distribution of 1 million Compact Fluorescent lamps (CFLs) (US$l. 1 million)
           to customers in the villages electrified under this .component and other already
           electrified rural villages.

33.     Cost estimates and funding sources is provided in Table A3.6 below:
                     Table A3.6 Cost Estimate and Funding Source in US$ Million

         Activities under Rural Electrification                      Estimated Cost in US$
                        Component                         Foreign Currency Local Currency Total costs
  Connecting about 50 rural townshillages                             19.00            3.00    22.00
  Connecting about 70,000 household to the
   distribution system                                                5 .OO           0.75       5.75
  Installation of efficient public street lighting                    0.40            0.06       0.46
  Distribution of 1 million CFLs                                      1.00            0.10       1.10
  Sub Total                                                          25.40    '        .1
                                                                                      39        29.31
  Contingency 5%                                                       1.27           0.20       1.47
  Tax                                                                                  0.7        0.7
  Grand Total                                                        26.67             .1
                                                                                      48        31.48

34.    Implementation Arrangements: This component will be implemented by
UEAP office, created within EEPCo for carrying out of rural electrification program.
Currently 110 Professionals, 2 15 Semi Professional and 366 Support staff are working
for UEAP. 280 are permanent employees and 41 1 are working on temporary basis.

35.     The UEAP office is responsible for the design of electrification activities
including detail engineering work and material procurement. It will manage the
construction activities and handover to EEPCo's Distribution Operation and Maintenance
Office. The GoEEEPCo will finance the construction work that will be carried out by
UEAP's own force and EEPCo's Regional Offices. Cost of Private local contractors
shall be supported from the credit. Key units involved in project implementation are

                                                     30
Projects Engineering, Construction Office, Supply Chain, Finance, HR and UEAP
planning together with Regional UEAP's Coordination Offices.

IV.     Renewable Energy Development - Geothermal Resources Exploration

36.     Background: Exploration of Ethiopia's geothermal resources begun in 1969.
Since then, about two dozen geothermal fields with an estimated potential of several
thousand megawatts for power generation have been found. This makes Ethiopia one of
the world's most interesting countries for the deployment of geothermal power
generation.

37.     Reliance on hydro-power is exposing the Ethiopian power sector to the vagaries
of periodic drought and other environmental concerns. The Government is therefore
focusing on ways to diversify its power sources and to improve the power generation mix
through the utilization of indigenous energy resources that would be economically
competitive5,reliable6 and with low environmental impact. Secondly, since geothermal
power would be produced in areas located far away from hydro power plants, it would
contribute to the overall stability of the country's transmission grid.

38.     General Overview of the Proposed Project: The main objective of the
appraisal/confirmation wells drilling project is to drill four directional deep wells that can
pinpoint the high productive area within the Aluto Langano geothermal reservoir. In
order to achieve the set goals, necessary preparations will be done as per the standard and
requirements of geothermal well drilling. During preparatory and implementation phases
of the project, knowledge transfer of skills and techniques will be materialized. This will
form the basis for effective and reliable undertakings of geothermal drilling operations in
the country. The ultimate drilling and, if successful, later expansion of the Aluto
geothermal field will contribute to the generation capacity of the country, thereby
supporting the development and poverty reduction endeavor of Ethiopia. Therefore, the
proposed drilling project will have its own share to induce geothermal development in the
long-term.

39.    The Aluto Langano Geothermal Field: The Aluto Langano geothermal field is
                                           it
located in the Lakes District, .Ethiopian Rf Valley, about 200 km southeast of Addis
Ababa. During the mid 1980's eight deep (1,3 17 - 2,500 m) geothermal exploratory
wells were drilled in the field. Out of the 8 exploratory wells, currently 4 are feeding the
8.52 MW pilot power plant and one well is serving as re-injection well.

40.    Recently, the first phase of the Aluto Langano geothermal field expansion project
(review of previous data, additional geo-scientific investigation and feasibility study) has
been completed. The study indicated that the Aluto Langano geothermal field is capable
to produce at least 35 MW. The study recommended drilling four appraisal wells


  Production costs are internationally usually between 4 and 10 US$ cents per kWh, depending on power
plant size and difficulty of drillings and chemical composition of steam and fluids.
  Geothermal usually provides base load power with an availability factor of approximately 90% or higher.


                                                   31
followed by drilling of production wells, the project's feasibility study and finally the
installation of a 35 MW power plant.

41.     The new wells will be part of the exploratory activities and will hopefully further
define the location, size and potential of the geothermal reservoir.

42.     Geothermal Project Development: The following Table A3.7 gives an
overview over the different phases of geothermal project development, showing that a
geothermal project at average would take between 6 to 8 years from first reconnaissance
to operation of the power plant. The proposed activity, the drilling of four appraisal wells
to further determine the location, size and potential of the reservoir and hot body under
the subsurface, would be part of phase 3, Test Drillings.

                          Table A3.7: Phases of Geothermal Project Development

    Milestones /Tasks                         Year of Implementation (indicative)
                                                 1       2        3      4          5   6   7   Lifetime



                                               -
            Selection of promising areas
            EIA & necessary permits              -
            Surface (geological )
            Subsurface (geophysical)
            Geochemical
            Soundings (MT/TEM)
            Gradient holes
            Seismic
3   Test Drillings
            Slim holes
            Full size wells
            Well testing &stimulation
            Interference Tests
            Reservoir simulation
4   Project review and planning
             Evaluation and decision making
             Feasibilty Study
             Financial closure



            Re- Injection wells
            Cooling water wells




            Power Plant
            Cooling system
            Substation




                                                             32
43.     Drilling of 4 Appraisal Wells And Additional Scope Of Work: According to
information from the Geological Survey of Ethiopia (GSE), each of the proposed
boreholes would be maximal 2,500 meters deep and drilled with a rig capable of
deploying directional drilling. Since additional equipment and expertise is needed for
this kind of drilling, the costs for the component will be severely impacted. The existing
cost estimate includes all additional equipment needed for the operation, the
refurbishment and certification of the drilling rig, casings, cementation and wellheads,
well testing and stimulation, reservoir simulation and interference tests. Geological and
geochemical logging as well as testing activities will be performed during drilling in
order to generate subsurface data for reservoir characterization and provide relevant
information for the drilling operation. Well testing and geochemical studies will continue
after drilling to provide data for reservoir assessment and a feasibility study, which will
determine the resource base and optimum size of the power plant that can be supported
by the reservoir. Based on the results of newly drilled four wells and the existing data,
the geothermal conceptual model of Aluto Langano field will be updated and a detailed
resource evaluation by a 3D numerical simulation of the reservoir will assist in designing
the power plant and future production wells.

44.      The scope of work for the proposed activity also includes the necessary adaption
of access roads, a base camp and other facilities for workers on the drilling rig and other
staff as well as other issues as listed below. The determination of the total costs of the
entire component, as well as the scope of work provided by the Government of Ethiopia,
requires further confirmation. However, cost of several activities have been estimated
and the overall estimated cost of the component is budgeted as provided in Table A3.8
below:

           Table A3.8: Estimated Cost Breakdown of Geothermal Project Development

                             Procurement/Services                      Total

             Goods:
             1: Flow metering system for existing wells                    130,000
             2: Overhaul equipment for GSE drilling rig                  1,700,000
             3: Drilling consumables for 4 wells                         8,960,000
             4:, Well tesing tools                                         160,000
             5: Administration tools                                       260,000
             Sub-Total                                                 1 1,210,000

             Technical Support:
             1: Drilling Rig Maintenance                                   73,000
             2: Well Directional Drilling                               2,490,000
             3: Resource Evaluation & Plant Construction Design           460,000
             4: Basic Design & Bidding Documentation                    3,100,000
             Sub-Total                                                  6,123,000

             Other Costs to be detailed:
             Access roads, Base camp, Workers facilities, etc.         12,667,000
             Total Project Cost                                    '   30,000,000




                                                 33
45.     Rig Inspection, Procurement of Spare Parts, Rig Overhaul and Certification:
Ethiopia owns two deep geothermal well drilling rigs manufactured in 1980 (Kremco,
Canadian made) and 1990 (Massarenti, Italian made). It is planned to use Massarenti for
AlutoLangano appraisal wells drilling. The rig has drilled only 6 deep and shallow wells
(total depth 7,495m) during the time period 1993-1998. The rig and its accessories have
been stored at Semera since early 1998. Even though the rig was stored at working
condition, it has not been operating for the last 12 years. However every two to three
years, inspection of the rig engines and accessories had been conducted by personnel
from the Geological Survey of Ethiopia (GSE) and all the major parts were found to be
functional. But seals, valves and hoses which deteriorate with time have to be changed.
To insure drilling safety the inspection of the rig and its accessories will be done by an
engineer from the rig manufacturer. Based on the findings of the inspection, necessary
spare parts for refurbishment and upgrading of rig will be procured. This will be
followed by rig refurbishment and certification. The capability of the GSE drilling crew
will also be accessed and upgraded. Time required to complete the jobs is estimated to
be 6 months.

46.     Preparation of Access Road, Drill Pads and Base Camp Facilities: There are
two access roads to the Aluto Langano geothermal well field. They require maintenance
and some modifications in order to transport the rig. The drill pads will be cleared,
levelled and compacted. The existing base camp at Lake Langano will also be
maintained. These jobs will be done in parallel during procurement and rig
refurbishment.

47.      Expected outcomes: According to the plans presented by GSE, the project will
drill four new geothermal wells with the purpose of: (i) providing better data about the
conditions in the subsurface, including location and size of the actual hot body and
geothermal reservoir; (ii) get a better insight into the overall geophysical model of the
subsurface of the Ethiopian Rift Valley; and (iii) assist experts in determining the best
locations for further drillings and for the design of the future power plant.

48.     With the final target of operating a 35 MW geothermal power plant at the Aluto
Langano site, the wells will have to provide a sufficient amount of steam at temperatures
not lower than 220C, which would allow the use of a conventional steam cycle.
Secondly, the scaling potential of the fluids and / or steam should be low enough to allow
for Delta-T7 of at least 50C. The chemical composition of geothermal fluids and steam
determine the scaling potential and the degree to which a fluid can be cooled down
(utilized) before scaling occurs.

49.      The four wells to be drilled under this project do not have to deliver any specific
power output. However, since they will be drilled at a location already known for its
geothermal resource and after quite extensive exploratory research over a couple of
decades, it is likely that the fluids and steam from these wells will contribute significantly
to the target as needed for the planned 35 MW power plant. The actual flow rate of all

' Utilization of heat by turbine. Delta-T is the difference of T into power plant and T at condenser/cold
end.


                                                     34
wells, as needed to provide the power for this power plant, will mostly depend on: (i) the
technology used and efficiency of the power plant; (ii) the temperature as provided into
the turbine of the power plant; (iii) the chemical composition of the fluids and steam and
the possible Delta-T; (iv) cooling options for the power plant's cold end (condenser); and
(v) fresh water supply to the reservoir to keep up production pressure.

V.     Institutional Capacity Building

50.     Technical Assistance to EEPCo (US%3.0       million): This component will
support: (i) consulting services for project design and supervision; (ii) strengthen
EEPCo's planning, and execution capacity to expand rural access; (iii) acquisition of
software and related training to optimize its urban network operation and management;
(iv) Strengthen monitoring and evaluation functions of the project; (v) assess
socioeconomic impact of UEAP; (vi) updating of the Power Sector Master Plan (PSMP)
and other relevant studies as required to support development of the sector; and (vii)
training of key project staff on procurement management, financial management, contract
management, etc..




                                            35
           Annex 4: Revised Implementation Arrangements and Support

             Ethiopia: Additional Financing for Energy Access Project


1.      The additional financing project will continue to be implemented according to the
original implementation design of the project. In addition to scaling up the scope of
urban distribution network upgrading and increasing the rural electrification access, the
project enhances the renewable energy development component by supporting the
evaluation and appraisal of geothermal resource in Ethiopia. The geothermal exploration
triggers OP/BP 4.1 1 - Physical Cultural Resource Policy of the Bank. The original scope
of the project included development of small hydro plants, but the OP/BP 7.50 - Projects
on International Waterways Policy was not triggered inadvertently. This has been
triggered under the additional financing project. The implementation arrangements for
the Geothermal Development Component and management of the two new safeguards
policies introduce in the additional financing project is detailed below.

2.      The Geothermal Project Management Unit: The Renewable Energy
Development Component of the project supported development of solar technology and
small hydro plants. This component is implemented by the Rural Electrification Fund
Secretariat (REF) under the Ethiopia Renewable Energy Development and Promotion
Centre (EREDPC). However, given the comparative advantage of EEPCo in managing
fiduciary and safeguards issues related to the exploratory drillings required for the
Geothermal resource study, the Ministry of Mines and Energy decided to house the
project management responsibilities of this geothermal development component in
EEPCo.

3.      The project will be owned by EEPCo. A Project Management Unit will be
established, composed of technical and support services personnel from EEPCo and the
Geological Survey of Ethiopia (GSE). This Project Management Unit will be directly
responsible to EEPCo's top management. Matching funds for the project will be provided
by EEPCo. GSE will provide its technical personnel and equipment including the rig.
The project office will execute the day to day activities of the project. In addition, a
steering committee will be established; whose members will be the Minister/State
Minister of Ministry of Mines and Energy, CEO of EEPCO and Director General of GSE.
The steering committee will schedule meetings to review progress reports and provide
guidance and solutions in case of major problems to be encountered.

4.      Safeguard Policies and Management: The safeguard category B of the project
will be maintained as there are no significant and/or irreversible adverse environmental
and social issues in components financed under the project.

5.     However, under the additional financing project, two new safeguards policies
have been triggered, namely, (i) Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1); and (ii)
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The original safeguard policies that



                                           36
were triggered, continue to apply, which are: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01); and (ii) Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The riparian notification
according to OP 7.50 was issued by the Bank on April 7,2010 to the riparian countries.
The response period ends on June 6,2010.

6.     For expanding access to new areas and extending lines to connect new consumers,
the implementing agency has finalized the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) for screening of individual projects. They have further prepared a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The procedures, including chance-finds
procedures are addressed in the ESMF. In the event that the exploratory drilling
operations are deemed likely to result in temporal displacement of people, loss of income
and means of livelihoods, the project will formulate and implement Environment and
Social Management Plans (ESMPs) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) acceptable to
the Bank, prior to commencement of the actual exploration work.

7.     The project components will be located in various parts of Amhara, Oromia,
SNNP and Tigray regions in addition to several cities like Addis Ababa, Bahir Dar,
Mekele, Jima, Awassa, Dessie, Nazareth, Dire Dawa, etc. The network rehabilitation,
upgrading of the substations and the energy efficiency sub-component will be primarily
located in the urban areas. The renewable energy component supporting the solar and
micro hydro development will be mainly in rural areas. The distribution lines will be
constructed between existing grid substations and the towns/woreda to be electrified. For
easy access and to avoid loss of shelter, sources of income, livelihoods, land take and
therefore any resettlement and compensation payments, as well as excessive crop damage
including felling of trees, the distribution line routes will be selected to follow existing
road reserves. The urban distribution network rehabilitation will replace existing wood
and old poles with new concrete poles; the substation upgrading will be completed within
the EEPCo property where the existing substations are located.

8.      The small hydro plants financed under the project will be located in already
identified locations. For these separate site-specific ESIAs including any RAPS will be
completed prior to commencement of any construction activities.

9.      The exploration of geothermal resource will be near the Aluto Langano
Geothermal Pilot Power Plant area, which is located within the central-southern part of
                     it
the main Ethiopian Rf with an impermeable pre-Cambrian basement rock of
metamorphic and granitic nature. The Precambrian rocks of the Aluto volcanic complex
are however affected by active axial and transverse faults and fractures. These rocks
exhibit several surface manifestations including fumaroles, ground water, hot and warm
springs, and altered grounds. Drilling may affect groundwater quantity and quality. The
youngest Aluto volcanic eruption characterized by obsidian flow and pumice breccias is
reported to have occurred about 2,000 years ago. The biodiversity and floral and
faunistic composition of the area is less studied. The entire Aluto area seems to be poorly
established with wild animals. Hence, exploration is expected to have no significant
impact on fauna. On the contrary, geothermal exploration and drilling may impact on




                                             37
vegetation since sites for the wells and workers' camps may be cleared of vegetation
prior to the actual drilling.

10.     Since the specific locations for the proposed geothermal exploration are unknown
the ESMF study would suffice for now as the appropriate environmental and social
safeguard instrument. The ESMF broadly highlight the key environmental, safety and
social issues that need to be sufficiently considered during exploration work. In case this
exploration suggests viability of the drilling pads and EEPCo decides finally to initiate
actual drilling for geothermal energy, EEPCo obliges to conduct an exhaustive
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) study (including other safeguard
policies such as RAP) prior to commencement of any commercial harnessing and
operation of a geothermal-based facility. This would be an important step to better
understand what significant effects could be attributed to construction work that would
involve the development of collection, separation and reinjection facilities for geothermal
fluid and pipeline routes for power plant and drilling pads as well as the power
transmission and distribution systems.

11.    This project will only support exploratory drilling to carry out the feasibility of
geothermal resource in the Aluto volcanic complex. No capital investments to build
power plants and transmission lines will be supported under this project. As a
precautionary measure, all the opening heads of the exploratory wells will be sealed after
the exploration study is completed and these heads will remain closed until EEPCo
decides to proceed with actual commercial drilling operations.




                                             38
