                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                                                    Report No: 77735 v1


                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                            ON A

                         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                     OF THE

                             ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT
                         CREDIT NUMBER 3712-ET AND 4795-ET



                                           TO THE

                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


                                          May 2013




Energy Group (AFTG1)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCE3
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.




                                              1
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
                     Exchange rate effective March 15, 2013

                                US $ 1.51= SDR 1




CFL        Compact Florescent Lamp
EEA        Ethiopian Electric Agency
EAREP II   Electricity Access (Rural) Expansion Phase II Project
EEPCo      Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EREDPC     Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GOE        Government of Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
IDA        International Development Association
PDO        Project Development Objective
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
REF        Rural Electrification Fund
UEAP       Universal Electricity Access Program




           Regional Vice President:    Makhtar Diop
                 Country Director:     Guang Zhe Chen
                   Sector Director:    Jamal Saghir
                  Sector Manager:      Lucio Monari

                                       2
                                 Task Team Leader:                    Issa Diaw



                              FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                      ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT
                                          P091092
                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                     Page
A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING................................................. 9




                                                                       3
                         FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                      ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT

                                       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1. This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director to proceed with changes
   in the design of the Energy Access Project as follows: (i) cancellation of activities not started
   yet and impossible to implement before the credit closing date, June 30, 2013, with
   cancellation of corresponding funds amounting to SDR 96.75 million (US$ 145.77 million
   equivalent); (ii) reallocation of funds between components; and (iii) revision of the project
   results framework to align it with current practice and better account for realistic results
   attributable to the restructured project. Given the age of the project (over 10 years since the
   Board’s approval of the Original Credit, 19 September 2002) and the low disbursement, it
   was agreed with the Government that the project will close as scheduled on June 30, 2013.
   The restructuring will facilitate recommitment of the corresponding IDA funds as requested
   by Government of Ethiopia (GOE) by letter dated March 15, 2013 (attached for ease of
   reference).

B. PROJECT STATUS

2. The Energy Access Project (Original Credit, no. 3712-ET) was approved by the World Bank
   Board on September 19, 2002 in the amount of SDR 104.9 million (US$131 million
   equivalent) and was complemented by a GEF grant (US$4.93 million) approved by the
   World Bank Board on July 28, 2005. An additional financing of the Original Credit
   (Additional Credit, no. 4795-ET) in the amount of SDR 119.2 million (US$180 million
   equivalent) was approved on June 29, 2010.

3. The GEF Grant Agreement (TF-56092) was closed on June 30, 2012 with tangible
   achievements. Solar PV systems were installed in 370 rural primary schools and 545 Health
   centers. Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) for 5 micro hydro power
   plants have been carried out and detailed designs are ongoing. Therefore, the 5 micro hydro
   schemes will be ready for development by project close.

4. The following key results were financed with the proceeds of the Original Credit:

       (i)     Training, capacity building and technical assistance activities for EEPCO, Mining
               Department of the former Ministry of Mines and Energy, Ethiopia Electric Agency
               (EEA) and Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center (EREDPC)1
               under Component 1 (Institutional and Capacity Building). This includes long term
               Power Sector Strategy, Rural Electrification Master Plan, Rural Energy Strategy etc.
       (ii)    Renovation of the Addis Ababa High Voltage and Medium Voltage network under
               Component 2 (Urban Distribution Rehabilitation & LDC)
       (iii)   Electrification of 67 villages and installation of solar systems mainly for Schools and

1
    Later renamed as Alternate Energy Technology Promotion & Dissemination Directorate (AETPD)

                                                       4
               Health centers under Component 3 (Rural Electrification)
       (iv)    Manufacturing and dissemination of about 2.6 million improved stoves under
               Component 4 (Biomass)
       (v)     Financing the cost of the Environmental Management Plan under Component 5
               (Environmental Mitigation)


5. As the planned rehabilitation of the distribution system in Addis Ababa could not be
   completed within the financing of the Original Credit, the Government requested additional
   financing to complete distribution network renovation in Addis Ababa, upgrade the
   distribution network of 7 other major cities, upgrade 19 grid substations and electrify an
   additional 50 new villages. These upgrades were expected to increase capacity, reliability
   and efficiency of the urban electricity network and expand rural access in Ethiopia.

6. The implementation of activities under the Additional Credit has been significantly delayed.
   The Additional Credit took approximately one year to become effective and the project
   implementing entity, EEPCo, has also experienced major delays in some of the procurement
   processes. This is a systemic issue affecting the energy portfolio in Ethiopia and has been the
   subject of an intensive dialogue between the Government and the World Bank during the
   current fiscal year. Agreed remedial actions have been defined but are yet to be fully
   implemented. As part of these discussions, the GOE agreed with the Bank that: (i) while the
   Energy Access project achieved the initial targets, the implementation of the Additional
   Credit has experienced significant delays that will result in the planned upgrade of the
   transmission and distribution systems not being achieved before closing date, and (ii) the
   project is over-aged and should close as planned on June 30, 2013 after more than 10 years
   of implementation. Consequently, GOE requested formally on March 15, 2013 to restructure
   the project to reduce its scope to the activities that could be achieved by June 30, 2013, and
   to cancel the remaining amount of the financing so that it may be re-committed to Ethiopia
   within the IDA 16 cycle.

7. Implementation status of each project component is as follows:

Component 1: Urban Rehabilitation and Load Dispatch ($137 million)

8. All planned works under the Original Credit were completed before the closing date of June
   30, 2011. The Additional Credit was allocated to further renovate: the low voltage network
   of Addis Ababa, the distribution network of 7 other major cities of Ethiopia2, and the 19
   associated substations.

9. The procurement related to the transmission works is at bid evaluation stage. As the first Bid
   Evaluation reports were submitted only 9 months before the closing date, it was agreed to not
   pursue these contracts under the Project.

10. The activities related to the distribution system have been substantially delayed on account of
    EEPCo’s decision to change the scope of the consultancy secured for this work to get the

2
    Bahir Dar, Mekele, Jima, Awassa, Dessie, Nazareth and Dire Dawa.

                                                        5
       Consultant re-do the design instead of review EEPCO’s design as agreed during project
       preparation. The Design Review and Supervision Consultancy contracts were finally signed
       in August 2012 and bid documents are scheduled to be available by May 2013 (less than 2
       months before closing date) and hence none of these activities can be implemented before the
       closing date.

Component 2: Rural Electrification ($40 million)

11. Under the Additional Credit, the project target is to electrify 50 additional villages and
    connect more than 70,000 customers. In addition, the project supports connection of new
    customers in previously electrified areas to add about 700,000 consumers at the national
    level. The project supports only procurement of goods needed for the construction works and
    connection of consumers and this has been partially delivered. Supply contracts for goods
    totaling $13.7 million are expected to be completed by the project closing date. Actual works
    will be financed by EEPCO and have not yet started. This will negatively impact the
    targeted 700,000 connections.

12. Under the Additional Credit, the renewable energy component is supporting assessment and
    appraisal of the geothermal resources in Ethiopia in order to enable diversification of its
    generation capacity. Supply of drilling consumables is completed for a total cost of $ 11.85
    million. EEPCO’s recommendation to award a Gasoil & Lubricant supply contract of $1
    million was endorsed by the Bank and will be implemented before the closing date.
    However, drilling of exploration wells initially scheduled to start in March 2013 is delayed
    due to an accident that occurred during the transportation of the cement unit to the site. It is
    therefore planned to support partially the rental of cement unit for an estimated amount of
    $100,0003 as a matter of urgency to avoid further delay and keep the preparation of planned
    Geothermal Project on track. Drilling activities are likely to resume by June 2013.

Component 3: Biomass Development

13. No activities related to this component were financed from the Additional Credit.

Component 4: Environmental Mitigation:

14. No activities related to this component were financed from the Additional Credit.

Component 5: Institutional Capacity Building ($3 million)

15. Under this component, the Additional Credit was meant to support: (i) consulting services for
    project design and supervision; (ii) strengthening EEPCo’s planning, and execution capacity
    to expand rural access; (iii) acquisition of software and related training to optimize its urban
    network operation and management; (iv) strengthening monitoring and evaluation functions
    of the project; (v) assessing the socioeconomic impact of Universal Electricity Access
    Project (UEAP); (vi) updating of the Power Sector Master Plan and other relevant studies as
    required to support development of the sector; and (vii) training of key project staff on

3
    This amount will cover initial payment, transportation and insurance.

                                                            6
    procurement management, financial management, contract management, etc..

16. Two consultants were hired to support EEPCO on the design and supervision of the
    Transmission & Distribution works respectively for a total amount of $10.32 million out of
    which $4.44 million is expected to be disbursed by the project closing date. EEPCO will
    have to bear the remaining amount thereafter.

17. The socio-economic impact study is still at procurement stage and will not be completed
    under the Additional Credit. The Master Plan is currently financed under another IDA
    project, Electricity Access (Rural) Expansion Phase II Project (EAREP II). Limited training
    was also financed for EEPCO’s staff due to lack of responsiveness of EEPCO’s management
    except for the participation of GOE to a geothermal workshop ($30,000).

18. Additional consultancy contracts to support UEAP Geographic Information System (GIS)
    activities and environmental and social supervision are estimated to cost $70,000 and will be
    disbursed before the project closing date.

19. All in all, this component’s implementation was slow mainly because of procurement delays
    highlighted above as part of the systemic portfolio issues. Total amount to be disbursed is
    around $4.54 million.

20. In the last ISR, the project performance was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for
    implementation progress (IP), procurement and project management to reflect the slow
    implementation of the additional financing. The progress towards achieving the project
    development objective was rated as Moderately Satisfactory, given the performance under
    the Original Credit. A final supervision mission is scheduled for after the proposed
    restructuring and before project closure. The financial management rating has been upgraded
    to reflect observed improvements in financial reporting and audit. Overall, disbursement rate
    is 10.26 percent and additional disbursement by the closing date under ongoing contracts is
    estimated at $18.28 million.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Components

21. The Original Credit components remain unchanged. However, the planned activities to be
financed with proceeds of the Additional Credit related to the Component 1 Urban Distribution
and Load Dispatch will be cancelled entirely under the Additional Credit. A significant amount
of the activities under Component 2 Rural Electrification - grid based expansion will also be
cancelled. Funds will be reallocated to increase the financing of Component 2(b) and 5 to carry
out the activities described in paragraphs 12 and 16 respectively. Total funds to be cancelled are
$145.77 million. In addition, budget adjustment are proposed under the unique disbursement
category as indicated in the table below:




                                                7
            Table 1: Allocation of IDA Funds among Project Components in US$ Million

                                                                                               Cancelled
                                                                    Additional    Proposed
                                      Original       Reallocation
                                                                    Financing      Budget
 Ref      Component Description      Allocation         2010
                                                                      (2010)     adjustement
                                                                                               Amount

                                    SDR       US$         US$          US$          US$          US$
         Urban Distribution and
 (i)                                47.5      60.1        80           137           0           137
            Load Dispatch
 (ii)     Rural Electrification –
         (a) Grid-based
                                    31.5      39.8        66           30          16.74        13.26
         expansion
         (b) Renewable Energy        5.1      6.4          5           10          12.95         -2.95
 (iii)    Biomass Development       14.7      18.6        4.7           0            0            0
              Environmental
 (iv)                                0.2      0.2         0.3           0            0            0
                Mitigation
          Institutional Capacity
 (v)                                 5.9      7.5          4            3           4.54         -1.54
                 Building
          Total                     104.9    132.7        160          180         34.23        145.77




Results indicators

22.     It is recommended that the project results indicators be revised as indicated in Annex 1 to
reflect cancelled activities and new IDA Core indicators. The cancellation of funds will not
change the PDO, however the projects targets values have been decreased to take into account
the scaling down of activities under the Additional Credit.

23.     The indicator relating to energy losses should be dropped. The cancellation of the
transmission and distribution activities will not enable relief of the overloaded network, thus
losses in the country network will not be reduced. It is therefore recommended to drop that
indicator.

24.    Although the project procured cables and accessories, the intensification activity in
connected areas cannot be implemented because of shortage of meters. Therefore, the target
value for 2013 should be reduced from 700,000 to 100,000 additional customers under the
previously electrified localities. Also the key intermediate indicators related to the number of
customers (households, commercial/ industrial businesses) are lowered accordingly to reflect
also what the project can be accountable for.

25.    The number of household connections using solar PV and micro hydro indicator should
be dropped. Micro hydro schemes cannot be completed before the project closing date and
procurement of Solar Home systems has been transferred to EAREP II.

26.       The number of geothermal wells is being reduced to 1 given the new drilling schedule.


                                                      8
27.    Finally, one new core indicators related to “number of community electricity connections
under the project-Grid? should be added.

Economic and Financial Analysis

28. The cancellation of activities and financing will have an impact on the economic and
financial analysis for the project. The revised analysis will be prepared and filed in the electronic
project file before project closing date. The revised analysis will be used as the baseline for
evaluation of project at the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.




                                                 9
                                                                      ANNEX 1:
                                                          Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                 ETHIOPIA: Additional Financing for Energy Access Project

Project Development Objective (PDO): (i) establish a sustainable program for expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the quality and adequacy of the electricity
supply in the Borrower’s territory; (ii) reduce environmental degradation, and improve the supply and efficient use of energy; (iii) reduce the barrier to the wide spread use of
renewable energy technologies; and (iv) provide technical support to the Borrower for the institutional and capacity building of key sector agencies, and for regulatory, fiscal and
institutional reforms in the mining sector to attract private investment.
                                     D=Droppe                                       Cumulative Target Values**
                                           d
                                                     Unit of                                                                                                           Responsibility
                               Core

     PDO Level Results                C=Contin                                                                                                      Data Source/
                                                     Measur       Baseline                                                         Frequency                              for Data
          Indicators*                      ue                               2010       2011          2012        2013                               Methodology
                                                         e                                                                                                               Collection
                                       N= New
                                     R=Revised
Average operating margin             Continue        cents/K 0 US           0.4 US     0.7 US        I US        1 US          Annual              Annual report      EEPCo
(revenue-coasts) per kWh at                          Wh          cents/kWh  cents/k    cents/kWh cents/kW cents/kWh
over 1 US cents/kWh                                                         Wh                       h

Total electricity losses per          Dropped     %          22             16.8       15.3         12.5         9.6          Annual             Annual report     EEPCo
year (%) in the country
Number of people provided             Revised     Number     0              0          0            85,000       100,000      Annual             Annual report     EEPCo
with access to electricity                                   customers
under the project by
household connections in
urban and rural areas
Total number of improved              Continue    Number     1 million      1.1        1.2          1.2          1.2          Annual             EREDPC/REF        EREDPC/REF
cooking stoves distributed                                   stoves         million    million      million      million
in the project area                                          installed

                                                                          INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Revised Intermediate Result :
Number of households in               Revised     Numbe      0             0           0            17,000       18,000       Annual             Annual report     EEPCo
rural and urban areas                             r          Customers
provided with access to
electricity under the project
by household connections
Number of businesses                  Revised     Numbe      0             0           0            2,200        2,400        Annual             Annual report     EEPCo
(commercial) in project                           r          customers


                                                                                      10
areas provided with access
to electricity under the
project
Number of businesses                Revised    Number   0           0           0            750    770         Annual       Annual report   EEPCo
(Industry) in project areas                             customers
provided with access to
electricity under the project
Promote the development of          Revised             0           0           Contract            Sponsors
Micro Hydro Power Plant                                                         award for           identifie                   Annual
                                                                                detailed            d for 5        Annual        report        REF
                                                                                design              micro
                                                                                                    hydro
                                                                                and ESIA            plants
                                                                                for 5
                                                                                micro
                                                                                hydro
                                                                                sites ESIA
                                    Contin     Num                       600       2000      5000       8000     Quarterly     Quarterly           REF
 Number and Installed               ue                       0                                                                  report
 Capacity of PV Systems                        ber
 installed.
 Load Center is developed           Continue   (Yes /   No          No          Yes          Yes    Yes         Annual       Annual report   EEPCO
 and is 100% operational                       No).:
 Successful completion of           Continue   (Yes /   No          No          Yes          Yes    Yes         Annual       Annual report   REF
 the business process re-                      No).
 engineering effort.
 Rural Electrification              Continue   (Yes /   No          No          Yes          Yes    Yes         Annual       Annual report   REF
 Secretariat                                   No)
established, Rural
Electrification Fund set up,
Fund Manager designated
 Number of household                Dropped    Number   0           600         4000         7000   1000        Annual       Annual report   REF
 Connections using solar PV
 and micro hydro
 Number of geothermal               Revised    Number   0           0           0            0      1           Quarterly    Quarterly       EEPCO
 wells drills                                                                                                                report
 Community electricity          x   New        Number                           62           62     112         Quarterly    Quarterly       EEPCO
 connections under the                                                                                                       report
 project -Grid




                                                                               11
12
