 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14821

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/10/2015

               Country: Ethiopia
             Project ID: P049395                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Energy Access                Project Costs (US$M):                   199.12               222.14
                         Project
  L/C Number:            C3712                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                    132.70               159.40
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):                     20.25                36.17

          Cofinanciers: European Investment           Board Approval Date :                               09/19/2002
                        Bank; GEF Associated                  Closing Date:           12/31/2007          06/30/2013
                        IBRD Fund
         Sector(s):     Power (80%); General public administration sector (8%); Forestry (5%); Renewable energy
                        (5%); Other industry (2%)
         Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (25% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (25% -
                        P); Climate change (24% - P); Pollution management and environmental health (13% - S);
                        Infrastructure services for private sector development (13% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                   Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Aleksandra Liaplina       George T. K. Pitman    Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 3) states that the project development objectives are to:

        “(i) establish a sustainable program for expanding the population 's access to electricity and improving the
        quality and adequacy of electricity supply , thus supporting broad based economic development and
        helping to alleviate poverty ; (ii) reduce environmental degradation and improve energy end -use efficiency;
        (iii) reduce the barriers to the wide -spread adoption of renewable energy technologies , in particular solar
        photovoltalic (PV) and micro-hydro power generation in rural areas , thereby contributing to the reduction in
        greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions via displacement of kerosene and diesel that would otherwise be used
        for lighting and electricity generation ; and (iv) provide technical support for institutional and capacity
        building of key sector agencies , including for regulatory , fiscal and institutional reforms in the mining
        sector.”

    The project development objective stated in Development Credit Agreement (page 19) are to:

        “(i) establish a sustainable program for the expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the
        quality and adequacy of the electricity supply in the Borrower’s territory ; (ii) reduce environmental
        degradation, and improve the supply and efficient use of energy ; (iii) reduce the barriers to the wide spread
        use of renewable energy technologies ; and (iv) provide technical support to the Borrower for the
        institutional and capacity building of key energy sector agencies , and for regulatory , fiscal and institutional
        reforms in the mining sector to attract private investment .”

    The Global Environment Objective is stated in its 2005 PAD (page 3 ) as:
        “To initiate the process of eliminating the barriers that impede the development of renewable energy , in
        particular solar photovoltaic (PV) systems and develop micro hydro capacity .”

   This ICR Review is based on the assessment of the objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/15/2010

c. Components:

   The project included five original components, three of which were substantially modified at the time of the 2010
   restructuring:

   1: Institutional and Capacity Building (estimated at US$ 10.80 million at appraisal to which US$ 3.00 million was
   added at restructuring; actual cost was US$ 3.9 million).
   Included preparation of:
   (i) Long-term power sector strategy to address the principal sector challenges: (i) the low rate of access to
   electricity and the poor quality of service to existing consumers; (ii) the need to mobilize substantial financial
   resources for investment (about US$1.2 billion in the next five years); (iii) the potential for the country's large
   hydropower resource to be developed for both the domestic and export markets; and (iv) the need to develop
   technical and management skills, improve efficiency and ensure cost effective power supply for economic
   growth.
   (ii) Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan and specific studies to build a pipeline of rural electrification
   projects for private-sector investment;
   (iii) Integrated, rural energy strategy paper that would synthesize the policies for the rural energy sector in line
   with the Government's Rural Development Strategy and cover both traditional and modem forms of energy.
   (iv) Capacity-building for private-sector enterprises; The project will provide financing for the RES to disseminate
   information on investment opportunities in rural energy as well as to provide technical know-how to potential
   private sector investors, NGOs and legally-constituted community organizations (e.g. electricity distribution
   cooperatives).
   (v) Capacity-building for the five key energy sector agencies – the Ethiopian Electrical Power Corporation
   (EEPCo), the Ethiopian Electricity Agency (EEA), the regulatory body, and the Rural Electrification Secretariat
   (RES). For EEA, the project will support training and study tours to strengthen its regulatory capacity for both the
   NIS and the small-scale isolated electrification systems. The RES will be supported through consultants services
   in establishing its accounting and financial management systems, MIS and its staff will receive training in project
   evaluation, financing of rural electrification and other relevant areas.
   (vi) Regulatory reforms for the mining sector i) a comprehensive study of the sector's regulatory, fiscal and
   institutional framework; (ii) design and installation of cadastre and data management facilities at both federal and
   regional levels; (iii) provision of technical advisory services and training to the Geological Survey of Ethiopia; and
   (iv) a study to promote new investment in the mining of artisanal, construction and industrial minerals.

   2: Urban Distribution and Load Dispatch (estimated at US$ 88.72 million at appraisal to which US$ 180.52
   million was added at restructuring; actual costs was US$ 112.92 million).
   This component included the following subcomponents: (i) expansion and rehabilitation of the urban electricity
   distribution system, covering the country’s four largest load centers: Addis Ababa, Bahir Dar, Dire Dawa, and
   Nazareth; and (ii) establishment of a new Load Dispatch Center which was to include a Supervisory Control and
   Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. Rehabilitation and expansion of the urban system was expected to enable the
   connection of about 70,000 new consumers.
   After the 2010 restructuring and additional financing the following activities were added:
     Continued upgrading of the Addis Ababa network;
     Renovation of networks in seven other major cities (Bahir Dar, Mekele, Jima, Awassa, Dessie, Dire Dawa
        and Nazareth); and
     Upgrading of 19 grid substations.

   3: Rural Electrification (estimated to cost US$ 56.30 million at appraisal to which US$ 31.48 million was at
   restructuring for rural electrification and US$ 30.00 million for renewable energy development; actual cost was
   US$ 82.32 million).
   This component consisted of technical and financial support for: (i) connection of 85 towns in four regions to
   grid-based rural electrification benefiting about 135,000 new customers to be managed by EEPCo, and (ii)
   private-sector development of about 5 to 8 isolated rural electricity systems, including the development of local
   capability to formulate renewable energy strategies and plans.

   The private sector-led sub-component assisted by technical assistance will support the identification of the
   least-cost renewable energy options - solar and mini-hydro - in the isolated systems. These would include
   household solar PV systems for TVs, and lighting to rural households and small commercial users, as well as
   health clinics, schools and NGO posts. In parallel with these efforts, the Government will establish an institutional
   and financial architecture for rural/renewable energy in isolated systems. Financial intermediation was to be via
   an REF for channeling sub-loans to project sponsors. IDA financing of the isolated schemes was to be contingent
   on the establishment of the institutional and financial architecture for renewable energy.

   After the 2010 restructuring/additional financing the following activities were added:
     Grid Based: Connecting 50 new villages for supply of electricity to an additional 70,000 households and
        businesses; supporting connections of new customers in previously electrified villages; the installing of 1.1
        million compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) in the houses of new electricity consumers, and the installing
        energy-efficient lamps for the streetlights.
     Off-Grid: Financing of the drilling and testing of appraisal wells for geothermal development, in partnership
        with the Government of Japan.

   4: Biomass Management (US$42.30 million at appraisal; US$22.7 million actual).
   This component aimed to help reduce environmental degradation and improve biomass energy end-use
   efficiency. It included: (i) the development of a national strategic plan and policy framework for the biomass
   energy sector; (ii) the planning, establishment and monitoring of participatory sustainable natural forest
   management systems covering 302,000 ha; (iii) the establishment of farm/agroforestry schemes, covering
   384,000 ha; and (iv) support for energy end-use efficiency improvement in the household sector through the
   promotion of commercially-based production of 320,000 injera-baking stoves for peri-urban and rural areas.
   About 580 stove producers were to be trained by the project.

   All the biomass schemes were to be planned at the woreda [district] level and implemented by individual farmers
   and Farmers' Associations, with technical assistance provided by woredas, regional bureaus of agriculture, and
   the Natural Resources Management and Regulatory Department of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. It was
   expected that procurement and financial management would be handled initially at the central PMU level, but
   could be devolved to the regions during later stages of project implementation depending on the results of
   capacity assessments. The end-use efficiency improvement was to be implemented by regional bureaus of
   energy, with technical assistance from and supervision by the Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and
   Promotion Center.

   At the 2010 restructuring the biomass management and development activities (i), (ii) and (iii) were dropped.

   Component 5: Environmental Mitigation (US$ 1.00 million at appraisal; US$ 0.3 million actual).
   This component was to finance the cost of implementing the Environmental Management Plan prepared under
   the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment. It included: (i) capacity-building for an environmental and
   social management unit to be established by EEPCo; (ii) implementation of a compensation plan for crops lost
   during the construction of power lines; and (iii) technical audits to ensure and support safe disposal of old
   transformers containing polychlorinated biphenyls.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost:
   Estimated to cost US$ 199.12 million at appraisal, and US$444.12 at restructuring in 2010, the actual cost was
   US$ 222.14 million. The main reason for the cost increase at restructuring was the request from the government
   to significantly scale-up urban and rural electrification whilst dropping the biomass management and production
   component. However, most of the activities to be financed under the Additional Financing were not implemented
   due to financial management and procurement problems.
   Financing:
   The original IDA Credit of US$ 130.88 million disbursed US$ 118.54 million and US$ 27.24 million was cancelled.
   The amount disbursed and cancelled exceeds the value of the original credit because the currency of the credit
   was special drawing rights and in US$ terms this had changed appreciably over the life of the credit because of
   exchange rate variations.
   The original credit was supplemented at approval by US$ 3.00 million from two different sources for the
   GEF-related components. The first was composed of US$ 1.82 million from the Global Environment Related
   IBRD Fund of that was able to disburse US$ 2.02 million because of SDR/$ exchange rate variations. In 2011,
   the debt of US$ 2.20 million was written off under the WB/IMF Multi-lateral Debt Relief Initiative. The second was
   a GEF grant of US$ 1.86 million of which US$ 1.71 million was disbursed and US $0.15 million cancelled. It is
   unclear from the ICR how these sources of financing shown in the Bank's Operations Portal relate to the US
   $4.93 million shown in the ICR under 'Global Environment Associated IBRD Fund.'
   The US$ 180.00 million additional financing added in 2010 disbursed only US$ 28.12 million and US$ 139.84
   million was canceled at closing. The differences in totals is because of SDR/US$ exchange rate variations.
   The European Investment Bank agreed to cofinance US$ 15.42 million but added more at restructuring to bring
   its total con finance to US$ 31.72 million.
   At the time of additional financing the Government of Japan agreed to provide cofinance US$ 15.00 million. While
   some of this amount was spent on the drilling sub project, the actual amount disbursed is not given in the ICR.
   Similarly, the OPEC Fund for International Development agreed to provided cofinance of US$ 20.00 million; there
   is no record in the ICR to indicate that this cofinancing materialized.
   At the time of 2010 restructuring US$ 108.94 million of Bank financing had been disbursed. This is 68% of the
   financing provided by the Bank.
   Borrower Contribution :
   At appraisal the Borrower agreed to provide US$ 46.07 million for the project, and at the time of additional agreed
   to add an additional US$ 30.00 million, bringing its total contribution to US$ 76.07 million. The actual contribution
   was US$ 26.57 million or 35%.
   Dates:
   The closing date was extended twice by a total of 5 years. The first extension in January 2007 was due to the
   slow progress in project implementation; the second in June 2009 was to enable time to complete activities under
   the Urban Power Distribution Component.
   In 2010 an additional financing and a restructuring were processed simultaneously.
   In 2013 another restructuring was processed, and the project was closed on June 30, 2013.
   The GEF grant supporting off-grid electrification with renewable energy closed on June 30, 2012, that is, 30
   months later than planned.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original Project: Modest

   Project objectives were poorly constructed and worded. While the four project development objectives were
   stated in the Development Credit Agreement, there are in fact six; four were concerned with the electricity sector,
   one the agro-forestry sector, and one the mining sector. Thus the second objective to reduce environmental
   degradation, and improve the supply and efficient use of energy is, in fact two objectives, each for a different
   sector. Thus to reduce environmental degradation, and improve the supply of energy belongs in the agro-forestry
   sector; conversely to improve the efficient use of energy lies squarely in the energy sector. And the fourth
   objective, to provide technical support to the Borrower for the institutional and capacity building of key energy
   sector agencies, and for regulatory, fiscal and institutional reforms in the mining sector to attract private
   investment, covers two different and independent sectors.

   Effectively four of the six reclassified project objectives were and remain relevant given the challenges of
   expanding Ethiopia's infrastructure, including energy, which was a major barrier to economic development and
   the provision of social services in towns and rural areas. At appraisal, only 6% of the total population had access
   to power supply and even in electrified areas access was only 13%. EEPCo had limited capacity to provide a
   reliable service, on demand, to large customers: the grid was overloaded, voltages were low and fluctuations
   were beyond acceptable standards. Given the large capital expenditures required to improve electricity supply
   quality and meet demand over the next ten years - estimated to be about US$3.4 billion in 2005 prices - project
   objectives that included support for the public and incentives to nurture private sector participation and expansion
   were highly relevant to the government's strategy to increase electricity access to 50% by 2012, particularly given
   the need to develop isolated electricity supply systems based on renewable energy in rural areas. Objectives
   remain relevant to Ethiopia’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2002) and its Growth and Transformation Plan
   2010-2015, a key element of which is the provision of quality infrastructure, particularly greatly increased power
   supply and doubling the number of electricity consumers.
   However, the objective to reduce environmental degradation and improve supply of energy (through biomass)
   had a low relevance in the context of Ethiopia’s immediate short- to medium-term energy needs. Similarly, the
   mining objective was of low relevance to an energy distribution project.

   At the time of appraisal there was no effective Country Assistance Strategy as the CAS 1998 – 2000 was derailed
   by the conflict with Eritrea in May 1998. However the Interim Support Strategy (2000) emphasized dealing “as
   quickly as possible with the human, material, and financial destabilization caused by the war, while
   simultaneously re-engaging on core development issues”. Indeed, given that Ethiopia was recovering from the
   war and that there was a drought together with the corresponding economic collapse (both of these factors are
   mentioned explicitly in the Interim Support Strategy of 2000 as well as CAS of 2003), the objectives were
   over-ambitious.

   All the objectives were relevant to the three main themes of the CAS (FY03-FY05). Improving transport, power
   and water, and increasing energy-use efficiency, was essential to enhance pro-poor growth; similarly
   capacity-building and decentralization was seen as key to enhancing human development; and finally, given the
   high dependence of rural populations on natural resources, reducing environmental degradation would assist
   reduction of vulnerability. Objectives became increasingly relevant to three of the four pillars of the CAS
   (FY08-FY11): (i) fostering economic growth, in order to sustain the emerging economic ‘take-off’; (ii) improving
   access to and quality of basic service delivery, in order to sustain the emerging basic service ‘take-off’; and (iii)
   reducing Ethiopia’s vulnerability to help improve prospects for sustainability. Objectives remain relevant to the
   current CAS (FY13 – FY16), whose first pillar aims to foster competitiveness and employment, for which
   increased and improved delivery of infrastructure are key elements.

   Revised Objectives : Modest
   The dropping of the biomass component at restructuring following the government’s request was a de facto
   elimination of the environmental conservation objective. However, the project’s objectives were not revised.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Original Project: Modest
   The results chain connecting inputs to expected outputs that would lead to outcomes which support achievement
   of project objectives was comprehensive and logical. A notable feature of design was that sector and subsector
   strategies would enable development of master plans for the urban, and rural electricity subsectors, biomass
   conservation and management, and energy conservation. However, these seem to have overlooked the
   existence of the government’s own master plan making this feature irrelevant in practice. Wide ranging technical
   assistance was specified to build institutional capacity in government agencies and to facilitate participation of the
   private sector but it did not have an adequate focus on key institutional problems such as building capacity for
   coordination and procurement planning.
   There were four major shortcomings of design.
        First. The project’s very wide scope – including the electricity distribution, rural isolated power development,
        biomass management and improvement of the mining sector – made it an extremely difficult project to
        implement and manage given the many government institutions involved. This was a particularly egregious
        failing given that a critical design lesson from the first of the two preceding projects, Energy I, was not
        heeded. Specifically, Energy I included electric power development, petroleum supply options, industrial
        energy efficiency and household energy development, and the main lesson was that separating energy
        generation from distribution investments and increased access would have been a more effective and
        efficient design. Thus inclusion of biomass and mining sectors was a mistake.
        Second. The multiplicity of executing agencies, all with capacity and skills constraints, particularly for
        procurement, allied with the need for timely studies and technical assistance to more carefully design many
        project inputs was too complex, unrealistic and over-ambitious. The lack of readiness of the design for the
        rehabilitation of the urban power distribution systems at appraisal was one of the key reasons for delays in
        the implementation (ICR page 7).
        Third. Project scope was focused on the medium and low voltage lines only with no provision to rehabilitate
        high voltage systems which, given the envisaged sector grow, would become supply constraints.
        Fourth. While there was a results chain, output indicators were deficient being only weakly linked to
        expected outcomes.

   Revised Project: Substantial
   While the project design was reorganized and some activities were dropped, the scope of the electrical
   distribution activities was increased using funds released from the dropping of the biomass objective and
   additional financing. These changes allowed four new and highly relevant activities to be added.
    1. To increase electricity penetration to households in connected towns above an average of 30%, financing for
       extension of their electrical networks to households was added.
    2. To redress increasingly unreliable distribution networks in the major cities outside Addis Ababa, financing for
       network renovation and substation upgrades were added, as well as extending the scope to high voltage
       lines.
    3. Building on the success of the project’s technical assistance to build EEPCo’s capacity to build demand-side
       management to exchange CFLs for incandescent lamps, and the piloting of five million CFLs through the
       Bank-financed and on-going Electricity Access and Rural Expansion Project that reduced load by 80 MW,
       restructuring provided investment financing to support CFL replacement in both the urban and rural
       electrification components of the project.
    4. Finally, the addition of a small geothermal drilling component was relevant to testing options to supplement
       the high reliance on hydropower generating capacity and delays in commissioning new hydro plant. In
       addition to these new activities, indicators and targets in the results framework were significantly adjusted.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   There were six objectives:
   (i) establish a sustainable program for the expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the quality
   and adequacy of the electricity supply in the Borrower’s territory ; (ii) reduce environmental degradation and
   improve the supply of energy ; (iii) increase efficient use of energy ; (iv) reduce the barriers to the wide spread
   use of renewable energy technologies ; and (v) provide technical support for the institutional and capacity
   building of key energy sector agencies ; and (vi) provide technical support for regulatory , fiscal and institutional
   reforms in the mining sector to attract private investment .
         Because the outcome targets were changed at the time of the 2010 restructuring (the scope of the urban
         rural electrification was substantially increased, while the biomass target was dropped to zero), a split
         assessment of project efficacy was made.

         In addition, the Bank and other development partners implemented other other electricity infrastructure
         implemented in parallel, and the poor quality of the M&E system does not allow firm attribution of reported
         outputs or outcomes to this project.

   Original Project
   (i) Establish a sustainable program for the expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the quality
   and adequacy of the electricity supply in the Borrower’s territory: Modest
   Outputs:
   Institutional
        The government decided not to prepare a long-term power development strategy through the Ethiopian
         Energy Authority because it deemed its existing sector strategy was adequate.
        The initial distribution network expansion plan for Addis Ababa prepared by consultants was not accepted by
         EEPCo and its redesign delayed implementation by a year.
        Neither a Rural Energy Strategy Paper nor an Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan was prepared.
         Even so, the Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center, the Rural Electrification Board
         and the Rural Electrification Fund were established and these organizations studied, evaluated and
         arranged funding for rural electrification. The Fund planned to subsidize 85% of rural electrification costs,
         and 95% of renewable energy sources. At project completion, EREDPC was absorbed into the Ministry of
         Water and Energy.
   Urban Distribution Systems . While the urban power grid distribution system was improved and expanded, some
   parts of the grid system were neglected, particularly the low voltage connections. Only the works planned for the
   Addis Ababa grid were implemented as cost escalation meant that there were insufficient funds for the three
   other towns: Nazareth, Dire Dawa and Bahir Dar.
      The automated Load Dispatch Center was built and became operational
      One 132/33 kV transformer was installed meeting the target. Most of the 33 kV overhead line construction
        was achieved and 54 km was installed (target 60 km), and more 33/0.4 kV substations were installed than
        originally planned – 55 compared to the target of 30.
      There was no rehabilitation of the 15 kV overhead lines (target 475 km) but the length of new 15 kV lines
        was more than double that planned (334 km against a target of 152 km) and double the target number of
        compact 15 kV substations was installed (141 vs 68).
      However, fewer lower voltage connections and lines were constructed to connect outlying urban areas and
        towns outside Addis Ababa. Only 110 of the 15/0.4 kV distribution stations were built (target 429), and only
     130 km of the planned 1,640 km of low-voltage lines were installed. None of the planned 263 km of 0.4 kV
     lines was constructed.
Rural Distribution Systems . Extensive works were planned including 1,500 km of 33kV, 72 km of 15 kV and 572
km of 0.4 kV overhead lines. This was to be supplemented by 409 km of street lighting lines, 441 pole
transformers and one large transformer. Together these were expected to connect 85 towns. No details of works
constructed are given in the ICR but it states that connections were made to 67 towns (79%).
Off-grid electrification . This was modestly increased:
    Diesel generators were installed in 21 villages. How far this meets the target to install 3-6 independent
     grid-based systems is unclear.
    Five mini-hydro projects were designed but remain to be implemented and none of the 24 village
     hydro-systems planned were built.
    Solar PV systems were installed in 200 rural health posts, 100 elementary schools meeting the target of 300
     government facilities served.
    Only 1,108 households installed Solar PV thus substantially missing the target of 6,000 systems. The
     Borrower’s ICR (page 49-50) notes that these were ‘substandard items purchased from local markets and
     that there was lack of maintenance service backup in local areas. In addition it reported that 80 solar-PV
     units were inoperative as they lacked batteries.
Outcomes:
Establishment of a sustainable program for expansion of access was not achieved . The project consistently
undershot its performance targets caused by institutional constraints in planning and implementation,
mid-stream changes in sector policy, and difficulties in coordination with large consumers.
    Frequent changes in city planning by local government substantially delayed implementation of Addis
     Ababa’s power distribution system.
    There was an ad hoc moratorium on new connections to the grid in 2008 and 2009 in reaction to severe
     power constraints in those years.
    EEPCO’s financial position did not improve under the project because it was not allowed to recover full costs
     of supply. Expected savings from reduced distribution losses and reduced outages did not occur. The ICR
     (page 16) states that “EEPCO’s current financial position is weak and its ability to continue supporting rural
     electrification expansion is uncertain.”
    Government also withdrew from its agreement to provide subsidies to nurture private-sector development of
     the PV market and this caused a redesign of this component.
    The Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center (EREDPC) was absorbed into the Ministry
     of Water and Energy at project completion. Given that this Center was established, inter alia, to develop
     bankable mini-projects projects for private sector financing, the ICR (page 15) notes that the Bank views this
     loss of independence with concern.

Increased Access to Electricity was partially achieved . It was expected that direct access would be provided to
an additional 1,100,000 people. The total increase in access reportedly achieved was about 615,000 people or
about 56%. Even so, there were notable shortcomings.
  No information is available on the number of new urban connections in Addis Ababa or how many people
    benefitted for the project – at appraisal it was expected to be 70,000 new consumers.
  Only indirect information is available for the rural grid connections because a detailed sector breakdown of
    the 120,000 new connections was not recorded. The ICR makes the assumption that these were household
    connections, and that each household had five people, the serviced population was 600,000.
  In addition to the grid-based access, the ICR estimates 10,500 people gained access through the
    diesel-power mini-grids and 5,040 through the PV-based systems.
  ·It was also expected that another 250,000 people would indirectly benefit from improved public services that
    would induce a significantly faster rate of small business development in newly electrified areas than in
    similar locations not yet electrified. There is no information on how public services improved as this was not
    tracked by the project. Indeed, it is likely that services for many in the urban project area declined: there was
    no rehabilitation of the 15 kV overhead lines (target 475 km), and scant attention was given to meeting the
    targets for low voltage connections – only 130 km (7%) of the 1,903 km of lines were installed, and only 110
    (26%) of the 429 distribution stations.

Improvement in the quality and adequacy of electricity supply are unknown . Targets were set but only very
limited data are available on outcomes.
   There is no information or data to determine if the grid distribution network was adequate to meet requests
      for new customers and reduce backlog of requests by 75%.
   There is no information or data on the reduction of the incidence of low voltages and voltage fluctuations
      beyond acceptable ranges.
   The one target that was set, to reduce power system losses to 17% was not met. At the end of the project
     power system losses were 20%, the same as the baseline.

(ii) Reduce environmental degradation and improve the supply of energy : Negligible
Outputs:
    There were no outputs.
Outcomes:
    There was no increase in the supply of wood fuels to rural and urban areas.
    Participatory community management of about 302,000 ha of natural forest was not achieved, nor were at
     least 384,000 ha of farm/agro-forestry schemes established.
    Faster rates of growth for income-enhancing and economic diversification of businesses in areas covered by
     the project were not achieved – there was no baseline and no incremental improvement data.

(iii) Increase efficient use of energy : High
Outputs:
    The initial target of 320,000 injera-baking wood-burning stoves was increased to 1 million in 2009 and 1.2
     million in 2010.
    By project completion 2.6 million injera-baking stoves had been produced and sold by the private sector.
    More than 5,000 individuals from the private sector were trained for the stove business.
    120 stove production centers were established by rural cooperatives; many initial start-ups utilized
     microcredit and were run by women.
    No information was provided on the proposed development of a national strategic plan and policy framework
     for the biomass energy sector.
Outcomes:
    Three stove types are being produced (Gonzi, Mirte and Tikikil) and they have according to the ICR the
     potential to save between 47% and 63% of the wood energy used by traditional stoves. The energy testing
     protocols, however, were not standardized by the project. IEG notes that recent research based on empirical
     study (http://www.mdpi.com/2073-445X/3/3/1137/htm) show the Mirte stoves tested had average efficiency
     savings of 24.3% if all cooking was included and this rose to 39.7% for only cooking injera. Each Mirte in use
     led to average fuelwood savings of 1,277 kg per year. Thus 2.6 million stoves have the potential to save
     about 3.3 million tons of fuel wood.

iv) Reduce the barriers to the wide -spread use of renewable energy technologies : Neglible.
Outputs:
  A start was made through the five mini-hydro projects that were designed, and government agencies
    installed solar PV systems in rural health posts and schools, and facilitated cooperatives to install them in
    homes.
Outcomes
  It was intended that the government would reduce the legal, regulatory and financial barriers hindering
    private sector-led rural electrification in isolated systems. While the government has supported renewable
    energy mini- and micro-projects through its own agencies, no evidence is presented that barriers to private
    sector participation have been reduced.

(v) Provide technical support for the institutional and capacity -building of key energy sector agencies : Modest
Outputs
There was no systematic accounting of the technical assistance outputs by the project but some details are
provided in the abridged Borrower’s ICR.
   The Rural Electrification Board trained 132 of its local area energy officers to carryout inspection and
     monitoring, and 450 technicians were trained in installation and management of solar-PV systems. An
     additional 200 other technicians were trained.
   Capacity building for the key electrical energy sector agencies – no information available.
   A regulatory and institutional structure for rural electrification was established.
   An Environmental Management Unit was established in EEPCo.
Outcomes
Capacity-building and institutional development were not a priority of the government or the implementing
agencies and there are no significant outcomes. The lack of a coherent planning approach to the sector remains
a major shortcoming, as does the lack of coordination between grid and off-grid electrification activities. The poor
quality of basic management activities, modernizing accounting systems and procurement was only modestly
improved by the project.

(vi) Provide technical support for regulatory, fiscal and institutional reforms in the mining sector to attract private
investment: Modest
    Outputs :
        A study was prepared on mineral policy and regulations and was discussed with 80 stakeholders.
        Drafts of the following documents were prepared: Mineral Policy, Mining Regulations, Mine health and
         Safety Regulations, Model for Analysis Monitoring, and Control of Environmental Impact.
        40 experts in the mining and mining-related sectors were trained.
        A Cadastre data management Study was completed and 54 staff were trained on Flexicastre software.
        Overseas training for 18 staff took place in India and South Africa on various aspects on mining and mineral
         development and management. Three staff of the Ministry of Mines made study tours in Tanzania and
         Mozambique.
    Outcomes:
        No progress on reforms to attract private sector investment in the mining sector are reported.

    Restructured Project

    The project was restructured in 2010 primarily to add resources to increase the scope of urban and rural electric
    grid expansion and upgrades. A modest amount was added for off-grid expansion. Given these changes, only
    the efficacy of objective (i) is reassessed under restructuring. The ratings for the other objectives remain the
    same as the original project

    (i) Establish a sustainable program for the expansion of access to electricity and for improvement of the quality
    and adequacy of the electricity supply in the Borrower’s territory : Negligible
               Incremental Outputs:
                  It was expected that Additional Financing would further upgrade the Addis Ababa distribution
                    system and its quality and extend the urban distribution network to seven other cities, including the
                    four in the original project. The rural grid was to be further extended to reach 50 new villages and
                    about 70,000 additional households. 180,000 commercial and 19,000 industrial new connections;
                    and 7,400 solar PV systems and 9.600 households using solar PV and micro-hydro were to be
                    connected over the 2010 level.
                  There were no incremental outputs. While specifications and contracts for additional works had
                    been prepared, and some works had been contacted, implementation was ongoing at project
                    completion.
               Incremental Outcomes;
                  ·None

    (ii) Reduce environmental degradation and improve the supply of energy : Negligible

    (iii) Increase efficient use of energy : High

    (iv) Reduce the barriers to the wide -spread use of renewable energy technologies : Negligible

    (v) Provide technical support for the institutional and capacity building of key energy sector agencies : Modest

    (vi) Provide technical support for regulatory , fiscal and institutional reforms in the mining sector to attract private
    investment: Modest.


5. Efficiency:

     Modest

    Economic and Financial Efficiency
    Analysis at appraisal . Capital costs of the various components and maintenance cost were based on
    engineering estimates provided in the consultants’ feasibility studies. Benefits vary by component and were
    based on demand projections and assumptions about the potential efficiencies introduced by the project.
    Principal quantified benefits for the urban power distribution rehabilitation were savings in power losses; savings
    in new generation investment compared with business-as-usual alternatives; reduced un-served energy; and a
    reduction in operations and maintenance costs. For the automated Load Dispatch Center benefits were to be:
    reduced un-served energy; operating cost savings; generation and transmission investment savings; and
    reduction in staff cost due to increased network control automation. For the rural electrification component the
    benefit was incremental electricity sales valued as the average tariff derived from willingness-to-pay studies. The
    costs and benefits of the biomass, solar-PV systems for independent grids, and the institutional/capacity-building
    component were not included in the analysis. The investment horizon was 25 years and net present values (NPV)
    at 10% and 12% discount rates were calculated.
    The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was estimated for the whole project to be 18% and the NPV at 10%
    was US$76.1 million and at 12% was US$45.9 million. The EIRR of the main components were: Load Dispatch
    Center 20%; rural grid electrification 14%; and urban rehabilitation and distribution 13%.

    Analysis at Completion . A much more limited analysis was undertaken and only the rural electrification
    component was included. To the base of 120,000 connections made by the original project, the ICR applied
    EEPCO’s projected growth rate of connections, 15% a year, to arrive at 277,567 connections by year 2016 and
    fixed thereafter to 2037. By this means the ICR sought to incorporate the impact of the US$16.3 million additional
    financing actually expended in 2013. All use was assumed to be residential and consumption was projected to
    grow at 2.49% a year. As at appraisal, willingness-to-pay was used to estimate effective tariffs. A base case took
    the tariff to be the long-run marginal cost of electricity. The estimated base case EIRR was 21% while the lowest
    WTP tariff yielded an ERR of 17%. The base case NPV was US$63.7 million and the lowest WTP NPV was
    US$41.1 million at 10% discount rate.

    On the basis of connection rates experienced under this project, the expectation that 177,000 new connections
    would be made in the 3 years 2016, looks very optimistic and hence the ICR's EIRR is likely to have been
    overestimated.

    Operational and Administrative Efficiency
    Poor intra-sectoral coordination, delays in finalizing the design of the rehabilitation of the power distribution
    system, unforeseen changes in the urban plans for Addis Ababa, and chronic procurement problems reflecting
    the weak institutional capacity of the EEPCo, significantly slowed project implementation and led to cancellation
    of almost all the Additional Financing. Lack of ownership of the biomass component led to its dropping in 2006
    by the government. Similarly, low interest in the institutional and capacity-building activities meant that much of
    that investment was inefficient with little to show in return.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                      18%                                     100%
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project was restructured in 2010 at which time 68% of project financing had been disbursed. Accordingly, the
outcome is determined by the ratings before and after restructuring as discussed below. The outcome rating scale is 6
= highly satisfactory to 1 = highly unsatisfactory.

    Original project. There were six project objectives: the efficacy of two is negligible; three are modest and one is
    high. Relevance of objectives and design are rated modest. Thus there were major shortcomings in the
    operation’s achievement of its objectives, in its efficiency, and in its relevance, and the outcome is rated
    unsatisfactory . On the 6-point rate scale this original project outcome is scored 2.

    Revised project. There were six objectives: the efficacy of two are rated negligible; three are rated modest; and
    one is rated high. The relevance of objectives remains as modest because the dropped objective was not
    officially removed from the project, and the relevance of improved design is rated substantial. Thus there were
    significant shortcomings in the operation’s achievement of its objectives, in its efficiency, and its relevance of
    objectives, and the restructured outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory . On a 6-point scale the restructured
    project outcome is scored 3.

    Overall Project Outcome :

    Outcome = 0.68 x 2 + 0.32 x 3 = 2.32 or Unsatisfactory

 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Political: The government remains ambivalent about full cost recovery while facing a huge investment shortfall to
   finance future expansion and essential system maintenance. It is also ambivalent about fostering the
   public-private partnerships essential to put the sector on a sound financial and technical footing.
       Institutional: EEPCO capacity weaknesses remain as a negative factor particularly for integrated planning
         and procurement.
        Financial: The Government has not allowed EEPCO to increase its tariff since 2006 in real terms and
         inadequate income curtails effective sector operation and maintenance. The government has also been
         unable to develop a sustainable private sector investment model for the sector.
        Technical: The ageing electricity network (many segments of the network are over 30-40 years old) is
         overloaded (more than 150% loading in some cases) is, despite the project, not able to efficiently service the
         consumers. Transmission and distribution lines and the sub-stations remain in urgent need of repair and
         expansion just to keep up with the current load let alone anticipated future demand. Upgrades are also
         necessary to improve the efficiency and reduce the high level of system losses.



  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   There were a number of significant shortcomings in the projects appraisal and design. Despite the benefit of
   two earlier projects, design was over complicated and its multi-sector scope was too broad. The inclusion of
   the biomass management within a power sector project that was primarily concerned with extension of
   electricity access was a mistake and a misreading of government’s lack of interest. There were similar
   misunderstandings about the need to develop a new power sector strategy for which government ownership
   was low, and the willingness for the government to accept significant technical assistance to improve its
   capacity. More attention could have been given to ensuring adoption of arrangements for intra-sectoral
   coordination. In addition, the design of key components – the rehabilitation of the urban distribution system
   and the institutional architecture for private sector participation –was not completed before approval. These
   shortcomings in combination with weaker than expected local capacity led to significant implementation
   delays and multiple restructurings. As a result the original four years of the project eventually extended to
   more then 10 years.

   A number of risks was underestimated and appropriate mitigation measures were not introduced:
   The limited government capacity risk was stated as moderate, and as mitigation it was mentioned that all the
   implementing agencies would be supported by consultants. In addition, the risk of the long-term power
   strategy not proposed by stakeholders was rated as moderate. These risks seem to have been
   underestimated. There were serious shortcomings in the M&E design.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The task team leadership changed five times during the 10 years of implementation and in 2008 a senior
   energy specialist was based in Addis Ababa. An issue pervading the quality of project supervision was that
   most missions had sector-wide terms of reference for 4-6 projects and this may have stretched Bank
   resources too thinly and omnibus Aide Memoirs were thin on detail and reporting for individual projects.
   Despite serious implementation problems related to procurement that caused significant delays, supervision
   reports were generally sanguine to the extent that additional financing was proposed and agreed in 2010 to
   expand project scope. Even then, the design of the project was not simplified despite obvious capacity
   constraints, lack of intra-sectoral coordination and the fact that the government effectively dropped the
   objective to reduce environmental degradation and improve the supply of energy in 2006. It took the Bank
   four more years to act on dropping this objective but its only action was to agree a reallocation of financing,
   not to formally revise project objectives.

   At the time of the 2010 restructuring, the results framework was modestly improved and some of the original
   indicators were dropped and others added. In some respects this was a fraught exercise as the Bank did not
   systematically track indicators and this posed severe problems for the team undertaking preparation of the
   ICR. A review of supervision reports indicates uneven and partial reporting on safeguard issues – at the end of
   the project the ICR had difficulty in systematically reporting on compliance.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government ownership, initially strong, lost its focus during implementation despite of the fact that the project
   objective of providing access to electricity through new connections was highly relevant to the Government's
   Universal Electricity Program launched in 2006. While the government adhered to sector policy it was
   ambivalent about full cost-recovery, subsidies for renewable energy, and the participation of the private sector
   as energy retailers and investors in off-grid small-scale power generation. The government's commitment on
   a reduced role for the public sector was contradicted by its requirement that EEPCo procure meters from a
   newly established public enterprise.

   The lack of comprehensive sector-wide strategic planning, the inadequacy of its own existing strategic plans
   and inadequate intra-sectoral coordination seriously impeded project implementation. The electricity crisis
   during the 2008-2010 period brought about an ad hoc two-year moratorium of new connections midway
   through the project, and the government shifted its policy stance from meeting demand through providing new
   connections to creating additional supply through power generation.

  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   There were four implementing agencies:
   EEPCO was the main implementing agency. Weak capacity, high staff turnover and overly centralized
   decision-making contributed to management and operational deficiencies, particularly for timely procurement,
   and these led to major delays in completing the design of works and their construction. There was little
   interest in training and capacity-building and the substantial resources potentially available were not fully
   utilized. There was scant attention to systematic monitoring of outputs and outcomes, ensuring efficiency
   improvements in urban energy distribution, and identifying project beneficiaries. There were also problems
   with internal financial controls but an action plan to resolve them was resisted until 2012.

   EREDPC was responsible for the distribution of improved wood-based cook stoves component which far
   exceeded the target distribution. Even so, there were shortcomings in managing training and in financial
   controls. EREDPC had only one finance officer responsible for all financial activities in the project, which
   seriously undermined the internal control system of the project.

   Ownership by the Ministry of Agriculture of the environmental conservation activity (participatory forestry
   management and farm agro/forestry programs) was weak and led to its cancellation.

   The Ministry of Mines effectively used project technical assistance but the numerous studies never moved
   beyond draft proposals to better regulate and manage the sector.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Design was weak as some key indicators were omitted and others were irrelevant. Indicators were absent for the
   key outcomes to improve the quality and adequacy of electricity supply and to measure the impact of the large
   program of technical assistance to build institutional capacity. Institutional arrangements of managing M&E were
   poor.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Some of the indicators introduced at appraisal were dropped later during supervision. They were not replaced
   with more adequate indicators, and that introduced a gap in terms of measuring the achievement of the
   outcomes. The number of outcome indicators varied also during the project implementation and was not
   consistent. Through 2004 there was no M&E framework in supervision reports but in 2005 five outcome
   indicators were mentioned, but no indicator for a target number of persons with access to electricity was included.
   Over the period 2010-2013 indicators changed twice. In 2010 there were four outcome indictors but by 2013 only
   two indicators remained but with changes to targets. Despite all these changes, outputs and outcome indicators
   were not generally monitored.

c. M&E Utilization:
  There is no report on how the few data and M&E information were used for project management.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as category “B” under OP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.12
   Involuntary Resettlement safeguard policy was triggered. EEPCo developed and publicly disclosed an
   Environmental and Social Management Framework for screening of individual projects, as well as a Resettlement
   Policy Framework (RSF), in accordance with the World Bank requirements (ICR page 11).

   The restructuring of the Project subsequently triggered two new safeguards OP/BP7.50 International Waterways
   and OP/BP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources because of the possibility of a cultural find during geothermal
   exploration, and substations. At the same time an additional environmental problems - possible contamination
   from old transformers removed from the system during upgrade of the urban electricity distribution network, and
   the impact of the project on the high volume of bird flocks in project areas – were added to the original
   environmental assessment.

   The ICR (page 11) states that “supervision documents do not reflect problems with safeguard compliance” but
   gives no other details. It notes, however, there were delays in compensation for persons affected by the project. It
   does not say if the government’s actions were in full compliance with the RSF and OP4.12. The issue of
   compliance with OP/BP7.50 and OP/BP 4.11 for the micro-hydro schemes and drilling activities could not be
   tested as they remain to be implemented. There is no information in the ICR confirming that these new
   engineering activities had EIAs and incorporated mitigating actions meeting the Bank's safeguard requirements.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management .
   EEPCo had strong accounting software and control procedures and was adequately staffed. There were,
   however, problems with lack of integrated data within accounting, billing, procurement, human resources, stores
   management, and operations management systems; inadequate information flow; and the need to improve
   oversight and management of operations. Following a Bank recommendation an assessment of EEPCo’s
   financial and governance procedures was made and a time-bound action plan was agreed with the Bank in 2012.
   At the time of the ICR the plan was in the initial stages of implementation. Generally EEPCO had difficulties in
   submitting audits on time. Even so, the last project audit by government for the period July 8, 2012 to July 7,
    2013 was found to be acceptable and unqualified by the Bank in January 2014.
    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The government closed the biomass component in 2009 and the
    overdue audit reports of this component were submitted in May, 2010 and the audit opinion on the special
    account was unqualified. However, the opinion on the financial statements was qualified because of accounting
    problems with local banks, regional transfers and other issues. The ICR does not state the status of this account
    at project closing.
    EREDPC. The main issue was the lack of internal financial controls and inadequate staffing. As a result while
    audits were timely and were unqualified, financial statements were qualified because there was no system for
    reporting of minor disbursements made from advances made to regions for the purpose of the project.
    Ministry of Mines. No information is presented in the ICR.


    Procurement. Procurement delays and difficulties plagued implementation. Specific problems encountered,
    included high staff turnover and a highly centralized decision-making process that required EEPCo’s Board to
    approve most procurement packages, and this delayed submission of bid evaluation report. Additional delays,
    according to ICR (page 11) were caused by resolution of procurement complaints. There is no information on
    procurement complaints.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory    Two of the six objectives were not
                               Unsatisfactory                                 relevant and when the project was
                                                                              restructured objectives were not revised
                                                                              despite improved relevance of design.
                                                                              Generally, efficacy was modest to
                                                                              negligible (with one notable exception),
                                                                              and efficiency is rated modest.
                                                                              Restructuring came to late to improve
                                                                              the outcome rating.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory    Quality at entry was unsatisfactory due
                              Unsatisfactory                                  to unrealistic objectives and poor
                                                                              design. Restructuring should have been
                                                                              done earlier and project objectives
                                                                              should have been revised if supervision
                                                                              reports had not been too sanguine.
                                                                              Attention to M&E and safeguard
                                                                              compliance was inadequate.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    The ICR presents seven lessons; the three most important are summarized below:
         Multi-sector energy project without a strong, centralized cross-sector institutional focus can result in a loss
          of commitment and underachievement of objectives. EAP was committed to simultaneously expand
          access to modern energy and increase the availability of biomass energy but it appears that the appraisal
          team misread the ownership of the biomass component by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
          Development.
         If project scope and design are not tailored to the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies,
          there is a substantial risk of delays and limited achievement of project objectives. the was extremely
          ambitious in design, scope, institutional framework, objectives and time framework for project completion.
          There were three major investment components, each implemented by a different ministry or
          implementing agency, as well as an institutional and capacity building component. With hindsight, in a
          country with weak institutional capacity, there probably should have been three separate projects, one for
          each major investment component: rehabilitation of the distribution system, expansion of electricity
          access, and improved biomass management.
         Detailed coordination of rehabilitation work for urban power distribution systems with city planning
          authorities is essential. The master plan for urban development in the city reportedly changed frequently
        during project implementation, often without warning, causing delays in the rehabilitation work. Similarly,
        lack of prioritizing and sequencing of investments caused a shortage of building materials, higher prices
        and implementation delays.
    IEG adds one further lesson:
         Ensure that supervision missions have enough staff , skills and time to adequately examine project
          implementation and report realistically on findings. In this project, supervision was very thin mainly
          because the majority of missions had to cope with a sector-wide brief or up to 6 projects. As a
          consequence, most attention was given to solving implementation bottlenecks of the most visible and
          problematic projects, and routine, systematic and thorough fieldwork seems to have suffered as a result.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No

Why? Given the large sequence of energy sector investments in Ethiopia and the sectoral approach, it is of interest
to see how the works promised under Additional Financing are progressing and if institutional and capacity problems
still cause efficiency losses.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is comprehensive and very candid about the shortcomings of the project. It is handicapped by the lack of
    good evidence and outcome information. In an attempt to become results-oriented it attempts to overcome lack of
    M&E with a heroic effort to reconstruct output indices and data to bring some coherence to what the project
    actually achieved. Even though the quality of analysis is quite good, the poor quality of the M&E has led to an
    uneven description and discussion of outcomes. As a result of these problems it is neither concise nor internally
    consistent, particularly when it comes to consistency between various parts of the report’s account of what
    output/outcome targets were. The lessons are very much based on the project experience and are useful.

    There is some misalignment in the dates in the text compared to dates mentioned in the tables, as for example,
    the second extension and for the GEF closing date. Similar discrepancies occur elsewhere. More needs to be
    said about the role of cofinanciers and there is very little discussion of what the GEF-blended financing achieved.
    The section on safeguard issues is very thin given that OP 4.12 was invoked and the report does not say
    anything about compliance. Similarly, given the number of independent entities receiving project funds, more
    could have been said about their fiduciary performance.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
