Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15958
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN NO.2818-TU)
AUGUST 26, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Yearly Averages)
Currency Unit                           Turkish Lira
1987              -                      855          =             US$ 1.00
1988              -                    1,421          =             US$ 1.00
1989              -                    2,120          =             US$ 1.00
1990              -                    2,606          =             US$ 1.00
1991               -                   4,168          =             US$ 1.00
1992              -                    6,864          =             US$ 1.00
1993              -                   10,965          =             US$ 1.00
1994              -                   29,668          =             US$ 1.00
1995              -                   45,731          =             US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                    US System
1 hectare (10,000 square meters)                    2.47 acres
1 meter                                           39.37 inches
1 square meter                                    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter                                       264 US gallons
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1st to December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IZSU          -      Izmir Water and Sewerage Administration
ISKI          -      Istanbul Water and Sewerage Administration
DSI           -      State Hydraulic Works
IB            -      Iller Bankasi
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPO           -      State Planning Office
KHGM          -      General Directorate of Rural Services
PMU           -      Project Management Unit
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility Advance



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2818-TU)
CONTENTS
Preface  ....................
Evaluation Summary .................................................. ii
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment .................................. 1
A. Project Background ..........1................................. I
B. The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector in Izmir ......................... 1
C. Project Objectives and Design .................................... 2
D. Project Achievements .......................................... 3
E. Factors Affecting the Achievement of the Project Objectives .................. 4
F. Project Executing Agencies Performance .............................. 5
G. Bank Performance ............................................ 7
H. Assessment of Project Outcome  .................................. 11
I.  Project Completion and Future Operations ............................ 11
J.    Key   Lessons  Learned  .........................................    11
PART II. Statistical Annexes  ........................................... 13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans .15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .17
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5A:  Project's Physical Components .19
Table 5B   Contract Procurement Schedule .21
Table 5C   Project Implementation Schedule .23
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .24
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .25
Table 8A: Project Costs .26
Table 8B: Project Financing .27
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .28
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .29
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .31
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .32
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .33
Table 14:  IZSU Income Statements (1987-1995) .34
Table 15:  IZSU Balance Sheets (1987-1995) .35
dThis ocument has a restricted distibuLion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| oricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Borrower comments to the draft ICR
D. Comments on the Yellow Cover SAR
E. Map: IBRD 28054



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2818-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Izmir Water and Sewerage Project in
Turkey, for which Loan No. 2818-TU in the amount of US$184.0 million equivalent was approved on
May 21, 1987 and made effective on October 30, 1987.
The loan was amended on December 13, 1994 and March 21, 1996 to cancel US$68 million and
US$11,230,000 respectively, thus reducing the loan from US$184 million to US$104,770,000.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995 with no extension. The Bank, nevertheless made an
exception to its general practice and agreed not only to keep the loan account open until April 30, 1996
in respect of expenditures made before December 31, 1995, but also in respect of withdrawal applications
for goods and services delivered until April 30, 1996 under one particular contract. US$99.4 million of
the loan were disbursed and US$5.4 million remained undisbursed after the last disbursement in May
1996.
The ICR was prepared by Bernardo Gomez (Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department
1, Europe and Central Asia Region) and Alptekin Orhon (Resident Mission, Turkey), and reviewed by
Ricardo Halperin, Division Chief, Infrastructure Operations, ECI and by George Zaidan, Project
Adviser, EC1.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, November
8-13,1995. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing
its own evaluation of the project implementation, and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2818-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Bank involvement in the water supply and sanitation sector in Turkey goes back to the early
1970's with the Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project. It was followed by a second loan to
Istanbul in 1982, and three more comparable operations in other urban areas.
2.    The Izmir Water Supply and Sewerage Project was the outcome of the dialogue between the Bank
and Turkish authorities starting in the early 1970's covering an urban development project with broad
objectives. As the preparation of that project confronted difficulties, the Government requested the Bank
to focus on a water supply and sewerage project. The Bank in turn assisted Izmir authorities in project
preparation with a US$1.5 million Project Preparation Facility Advance.
3.    The institutional arrangements for the provision of water and sewerage services in Izmir at the
time of project preparation were based on the model for major urban areas in Turkey. These
arrangements vested the full responsibility for the services in the public sector, with the underlying
assumption that the main objective was to expand the provision of services through new investments.
A number of agencies collaborated toward this objective: DSI, by financing and constructing water
production and transmission facilities; Iller Bank, by financing and constructing major sewerage
infrastructure; and the Municipality, by financing and constructing networks, and operating and
maintaining the infrastructure through two municipal departments: one responsible for sewerage, and the
other for water supply, together with gas and bus services. Issues of efficiency, accountability and
affordability were not then prominent in the minds of decision makers.
4.    At the time of project preparation, the coverage and quality of the water and sewerage services
in lzmir was highly unsatisfactory: only 80% of the population was connected to the water supply system,
and 60% to the sewerage network (without any sewage treatment); water supply service was intermittent
for part of the population; metering of water production and consumption was inadequate; and cost
recovery was limited to operation and maintenance expenditures. Capital expenditures were financed with
central government contributions and by concessionary loans from DSI and Iller Bank. The loans were
serviced by the Municipality from its general budget.
Project Objectives and Design
5.    The project objectives sought to broaden the scope of issues to be addressed by covering not only
the expansion of the physical infrastructure but also sector financial and institutional issues. From that
perspective the project objectives were important for Izmir and Turkey, and for supporting the Bank's
strategy in the sector. The project objectives were to:



- iii -
(i)    assist the municipality in the establishment of an autonomous water and sewerage entity;
(ii)   encourage the implementation of full cost recovery policies;
(iii)   correct deficiencies in the water and sewerage services, and to provide for the growing
requirements for services; and
(iv)   bring about environmental improvements, and to reduce health hazards caused by the
discharge of untreated sewage to streams and to the Izmir Bay.
6.     The project design was, however, inappropriate for a number of reasons:
(i)   it attempted to accomplish too much at once: establishing a water and sewerage utility;
implementing for the first time full cost recovery policies; moving from zero wastewater
treatment to treating about 80% of the wastewater generated in the Metropolitan area;
doubling the water supply capacity; and rehabilitating and expanding the water
distribution system;
(ii)   the scale of project investments (US$522 million) was excessively large compared to the
implementation capabilities of the project executing entities;
(iii)  the project financing plan was not realistic as it envisaged a local counterpart financing
(US$338 million) which was too high compared to the financial capabilities of the project
entities, and required IZSU to service the large Bank loan (US$184 million) while project
investments were still in progress; and
(iv)   the institutional arrangements were excessively complex, as they involved five project
executing and financing entities: the Municipality, IZSU, DSI, Iller Bank and the
Ministry of Agriculture through KHGM.
Implementation Results
7.    The Project did not achieve its objectives. The physical investments were not completed, and the
progress made in strengthening the borrower's (IZSU) institutional capabilities and financial performance
was below appraisal expectations. As of the time of the closing date (December 31, 1995), the status of
each one of the project components was as described below.
8.     Water Supply -- this component included the completion of the Tahtali dam and reservoir, and
the construction of the Tahtali water supply system. Most parts of this component are at an advanced
stage of implementation, and the system is expected to become operational in 1998. However, IZSU has
yet to ensure that the households and businesses around the dam do not pollute the sources of water.
9.     Water Distribution -- this component included the expansion and reinforcement of the water
distribution network. The investments envisaged at appraisal were substantially completed.
10.   Sewage Collection and Treatment -- this component included the completion and construction of
sewage interceptors, the construction and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary sewers, and the



- iv -
construction of a sewage treatment plant. This component has not been completed. The most significant
shortfall is that the construction of the treatment plant has not yet started.
11.   Institutional Strengthening -- this component included technical assistance in the areas of
unaccounted-for water and industrial waste management, as well as acquisition of equipment for leak
detection and repair, laboratory, and source meters. Not much progress was made under this project
component as IZSU continues being a highly inefficient utility by most standards -- water supply is still
intermittent for large parts of the population, and the unaccounted-for water is estimated at about 60%
of production.
12.   Resettlement - The Bank after some initial delays tried very hard to assist the Turkish authorities
in putting in place and implementing a satisfactory resettlement plan. The main actions taken by the Bank
consisted of: allocating resources from the Italian Trust Fund for the completion of the resettlement plan;
maintaining a continuous dialogue with IZSU, the Treasury, KHGM, DSI and SPO aiming at the
satisfactory implementation of the plan; urging Izmir officials, including the Mayor, to allocate land for
resettlement in urban areas; and offering to finance from the loan the cost of the houses for displaced
families (IZSU did not agree with this proposal). The outcome of these efforts was positive as the
affected families are most likely to be relocated on time.
13.   IZSU's Financial Performnance -- IZSU's financial performance was substantially below appraisal
expectations mainly as a result of unrealistic water demand projections and of an overoptimistic
assessment of IZSU's capability to develop promptly into an efficient and effective water utility. In fact,
according to the SAR, the volume of water sales was to more than double between 1986 and 1994 (from
61 m3 sold in 1986 to 149 million m3 in 1994), and the non-revenue water was to decrease from an
estimated 40% of production in 1986 to 32% in 1994. Actual results were disappointing: water sales
were virtually stagnant (50 to 60 million m3 per year until 1993 and 76 million m3 in 1994), and non-
revenue water increased to an estimated 60% of production. In addition, total actual operating costs
between the first year of project implementation (1988) and the last year of the financial projections
(1994) were about 26% higher than estimated at appraisal (US$210 million estimated at appraisal vis-a-vis
US$264 million actual).
14.   IZSU attempted to close the gap between actual financial results and appraisal estimates by
implementing substantial tariff increases, which were expected to compensate for the lower than projected
volume of water sales. This policy, which led to tariff levels higher than estimated at appraisal every
year starting in 1991 (20% and 73% higher in 1991 and 1992, respectively; about twice as high in 1993;
and 35% higher in 1994) was, however, insufficient to close completely the gap between appraisal and
actual results, and to allow IZSU to fulfill its obligations under the Project. IZSU's actual tariff levels
were below appraisal estimates only in the first two years of project implementation, and about the same
in 1990.
Implementation Experience
15.   At a very early stage in project implementation the Bank became aware that the Project could not
be implemented as appraised and made vigorous efforts to restructure it to the extent necessary to make
it feasible. These efforts, which required intensive staff inputs (200 staff-weeks) during eight-and-a-half
years were, however, not sufficient to correct the deficiencies in the original project design. The most
significant outcomes of the Bank's efforts were the agreements reached with three successive municipal
administrations and IZSU to implement orderly reductions in project scope in view of the prevailing



v -
financial constraints. These agreements took place in September 1990, October 1992 and December
1994. The first agreement included a relatively minor reduction in project scope (dropping two sewage
collectors from the Project), a plan to strengthen IZSU's financial performance through the
implementation of quarterly tariff adjustments to compensate for inflation, and the amendment of the Loan
Agreement to increase Bank financing of civil works from 27% to 30%. Unfortunately, the municipal
and IZSU's authorities suspended the tariff adjustments shortly after the agreement was reached and IZSU
continued facing severe financial constraints and experiencing further delays in project implementation.
16.   The October 1992 agreement included two essential elements, as follows. First, a further
reduction in the scope of sewerage works by scaling-down the capacity of the sewage treatment plant
from 8.0 to 1.8 m3 per second and by reducing complementary works to maintain the balance between
the flow from the sewage collectors and the treatment capacity. As a result of this reduction in project
scope, the collectors to be constructed under the Project would directly benefit about 450,000 inhabitants
by the year 2000, or the equivalent of about 25 % of the appraisal estimates. The whole population would
continue benefitting from the gradual environmental improvements of the Bay. The second element aimed
at enhancing the financial viability of the scaled-down project by reinstating the quarterly tariff
adjustments, and by increasing the percentage of financing for sewerage civil works provided from the
loan from 30% to 35%. The agreement was satisfactorily implemented by IZSU for about a year but
started falling apart at the beginning of the municipal electoral campaign in late 1993, when the municipal
administration discontinued the quarterly tariff adjustments. IZSU's performance deteriorated further
after the elections in April 1994, as the new municipal administration decided to expand the project scope,
while at the same time not adjusting tariffs as required.
17.   The December 1994 plan called for virtually dropping the sewerage component from the Project.
Under the plan, IZSU would continue carrying out a substantially expanded sewerage project through a
BOT arrangement, for which IZSU had already invited the submission of proposals. The Bank would
continue financing only two ongoing sewerage contracts, the consultants for their supervision, and the
water supply component. As a result of the changes in the project, IZSU asked the Bank to cancel US$68
million of the loan amount. The plan failed as the Municipality rejected the two bids received for the
BOT, and started looking for new options to carry out the sewerage project. No new option has yet
materialized.
18.   The Bank on several occasions offered Izmir and IZSU's authorities options other than the
existing loan to finance the works required to resolve the environmental problems of Izmir Bay. In
particular, the Bank offered the possibility of considering a guarantee or a second loan. The second loan
would be contingent on the implementation of improved institutional arrangements, which would include
bringing in a private firm to provide the water and sewerage services. Izmir and IZSU's authorities did
not show interest in the Bank's proposals. In October 1995, the Bank, in view of the poor prospects for
utilizing efficiently the undisbursed proceeds of the loan, communicated to the Borrower its decision not
to extend the loan closing date beyond December 31, 1995. About US$99 million of the loan was
disbursed. Part (US$68 million) of the original loan was cancelled at IZSU's request in December 1994,
US$11,230,000 were cancelled also at IZSU's request in March 1996, and the remaining part (US$5.4
million) remained undisbursed after the last disbursement in May 1996.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
19.   The factors preventing the achievement of the project objectives have their roots in the highly
ambitious project design with its large size, the multiplicity of project components and executing agencies,



- vi -
and the financing plan which was based on overoptimistic assumptions regarding the performance of the
executing and financing entities. Yet, the overriding factor preventing the achievement of the original
or the reduced project objectives was the unsatisfactory performance of IZSU's Board and management,
which was a consequence of IZSU's institutional set up which makes its Board and management subject
to short-term political pressures rather than the technical needs of a water and sewerage utility providing
high quality services at economic costs.
20.   The project design attempted to insulate the water and sewerage authority from political pressures
and sought to ensure that its decisions would be made solely on technical criteria by establishing IZSU
as a municipal enterprise based on the model of Istanbul Water and Sewerage Company. Unfortunately,
this new institutional arrangement proved to be not fully satisfactory, as it did not bring about a
fundamental change in governance. The Mayor and the Municipal Council retained a tight control over
IZSU's day-to-day operations.
21.   Bank performance in project preparation was highly deficient as its approach to the proposed
project was to carry out within a few years the large investments required to compensate for many years
of underinvestment and neglect of the water and sewerage systems. In addition, the Bank lacked realism
by expecting a newly created entity (IZSU) to be able to carry out the proposed large investment program
while simultaneously becoming an efficient water and sewerage utility.
22.   Bank performance in project appraisal was highly deficient. The Bank failed to give appropriate
weight to available evidence pointing to the conclusion that the proposed investments in water supply
could be postponed, and that, in any event, the proposed project appeared to be more costly than what
the Turkish economy, the Izmir Municipality and the project beneficiaries could afford. Also, the
planning assumptions for the project were highly unrealistic as the values for critical variables like volume
of water sales and prices were all on the "high side" and no plans were developed to cope with potential
problems.
23.    Bank performance in project supervision was partially satisfactory. On one hand, the Bank
deserves to be commended for the efforts made jointly with three successive municipal administrations
and with IZSU to address the failures of the initial project design. On the other hand, Bank's
performance fell short of what was needed to address the root cause of IZSU's of shortcomings which
was its political linkage to the Municipal Government. Also, the Bank was unwilling to invoke its
remedies when critical covenants were in default.
24.   The key lessons to be learned from this project could make a significant difference to the results
of other Bank-financed projects. These lessons are:
(i)   it is highly risky to attempt to compensate for past underinvestment and neglect of water
and sewerage systems by undertaking overly ambitious investment programs. Choices
have to be made to implement gradual improvements which adequately take into account
the prevailing institutional and financial constraints. Emphasis should be put on actions
and investments required for using existing infrastructure in a more efficient manner,
particularly in cases where there is evidence that poor service is due to deficiencies in
system operation and maintenance practices. Additions to installed capacity to meet
future demands should not be undertaken as a substitute for improving operation and
maintenance, and should not put an excessive burden on the borrower's implementation
and financial capacity;



- vii -
(ii)    Bank loans should generally finance only investments which can be realistically expected
to be completed and commissioned during the grace period for the repayment of the loan.
This approach should result in a sounder financial performance of the borrowers,
particularly revenue-earning entities, and should also provide an incentive to both
borrowers and the Bank to set investment priorities carefully;
(iii)   project appraisal should ensure that the project planning assumptions are realistic and that
appropriate contingency plans are drawn for coping with deviations from the plan.
Projects where the planning assumptions regarding the values of most of the main
variables are on the "high side" are most likely to result in unsatisfactory project
implementation and rates of return lower than estimated at appraisal; and
(iv)   utilities subject to strong political interference are unlikely to become effective and
efficient organizations without substantial reform to ensure that the utility's management
has the continuity, the authority, the incentives and the resources to effectively discharge
its responsibilities. Meeting these conditions will require in many cases private sector
participation in the provision of services under adequate monitoring of performance by
municipal authorities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2818-TU)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Background
1.    Bank involvement in the water supply and sanitation sector in Turkey goes back to the early
1970's with the Istanbul Water Supply Project. It was followed by the Istanbul Sewerage Project in 1982,
the Engineering Loan for the Cukurova Region in 1985, and the Cukurova Urban Development Project,
which was submitted to the Board simultaneously with the Izmir Project in 1987.
2.    The Project was the outcome of the dialogue between the Bank and Turkish authorities, starting
in the early 1970's, covering an urban development project in Izmir with broad objectives. As the
preparation of that project confronted difficulties, the Government requested the Bank in 1985 to focus
on a water supply and sewerage project. The Project was based on the Water Supply and Sewerage
Master Plan prepared by the Municipality in 1971 and updated in 1980 and 1986. The Bank in turn
assisted Izmir authorities in the preparation of the Project with a US$1.5 million Project Preparation
Facility Advance approved in early 1986.
B.    The Water Supplv and Sewerage Sector in Izmir
3.    The institutional arrangements for the provision of water and sewerage services in Izmir at the
time of project preparation were based on the model for major urban areas in Turkey. These
arrangements vested the full responsibility for these services in the public sector, with the underlying
assumption that the main objective was to expand the provision of services through new investments.
A number of agencies collaborated toward this objective: DSI, by financing and constructing water
production and transmission facilities; Iller Bank, by financing and constructing major sewerage
infrastructure; and the Municipality, by financing and constructing water and sewerage networks, and
operating and maintaining the infrastructure through two municipal departments: one responsible for
sewerage, and the other for water supply, together with gas and bus services. Issues of efficiency,
accountability and affordability were not then prominent in the minds of decision makers.
4.    At the time of project preparation, the coverage and quality of the water and sewerage services
in Izmir was highly unsatisfactory: only 80% of the population was connected to the water supply system,
and 60% to the sewerage network (without any sewage treatment); water supply service was intermittent
for part of the population; metering of water production and consumption was inadequate, and a
significant proportion (40% to 50%) of the estimated water production was not billed to customers.
5.    Cost recovery was limited to operation and maintenance expenditures. There was no recovery
of capital expenditures as the Municipality serviced DSI and Iller Bank loans from its general budget.
Moreover, DSI and iller Bank loans contained a significant grant element, as they were long-term (up
to 30 years) and the interest rates highly negative in real terms. In addition, some of the investments by



2
ller Bank were funded from Izmir municipality's share in tax collections, which Iller Bank by law
administers on its behalf.
C.    Project Obiectives and Design
6.     The project objectives sought to broaden the scope of issues to be addressed by covering not only
the expansion of the physical infrastructure but also sector financial and institutional issues. From that
perspective the project objectives were important for Izmir and Turkey, and for supporting the Bank's
strategy in the sector. The project objectives were to:
(i)    assist the municipality in the establishment of an autonomous water and sewerage entity;
(ii)   encourage the implementation of full cost recovery policies;
(iii)   correct deficiencies in the water and sewerage services, and to provide for the growing
requirements for services; and
(iv)   bring about environmental improvements, and to reduce health hazards caused by the
discharge of untreated sewage to streams and to the lzmir Bay.
7.     The project design was, however, inappropriate for a number of reasons:
(i)    it attempted to accomplish too much at once: establishing a water and sewerage utility;
implementing for the first time full cost recovery policies; moving from zero wastewater
treatment to treating about 80% of the wastewater generated in the Metropolitan area;
doubling the water supply capacity; and rehabilitating and expanding the water
distribution system;
(ii)   the scale of project investments (US$522 million) was excessively large compared to the
implementation capabilities of the project executing entities;
(iii)  the project financing plan was not realistic as it envisaged a local counterpart financing
(US$338 million) which was too high compared to the financial capabilities of the project
entities, and required IZSU to service the large Bank loan (US$184 million) while project
investments were still in progress; and
(iv)   the institutional arrangements were excessively complex, as they involved five project
executing and financing entities: the Municipality, IZSU, DSI, Iller Bank and the
Ministry of Agriculture through KHGM.



3
8.    The project financing plan was as follows:
|The World Bank                 T    184
|Izmir Municipality             |    108
IZSU's Internal Cash Generation      103
Iller Bank                           77
DSI                                  50
Total                  522
D.    Project Achievements
9.    The project did not achieve its objectives. The investments in physical assets were not completed
and the progress made in strengthening IZSU's institutional and financial capabilities was below appraisal
expectations. The achievements under each one of the project components are described below.
10.   Water Supply -- this component included the completion of the Tahtali dam and reservoir, which
had been under construction by DSI since 1982, and the construction of the Tahtali water supply system
(water intake, treatment plant, pumping station, transmission main, and reservoir of treated water). Most
parts of this component are substantially advanced and DSI and IZSU expect to complete them in 1998.
The dam was close to completion by the time of the loan closing date; the construction of 286 houses in
rural areas for displaced population had an advance of about 50%, and the 35 houses in urban areas had
yet to be tendered; the civil works for the water treatment plant had an advance of about 65%; the
transmission line had an advance of about 50%; and the major equipment for the water treatment plant
had been already purchased. The main uncertainty regarding the completion of the Tahtali System is the
acquisition by IZSU of the right-of-way (3 km) for laying the transmission main in the outskirts of Izmir.
Also, IZSU has yet to ensure that the households and businesses around the dam do not pollute the water
sources.
11.   Water Distribution -- this component included the expansion and reinforcement of the water
distribution network. The investments envisaged at appraisal were substantially completed.
12.   Sewage Collection and TReatment -- this component included the completion and construction of
sewage interceptors, which had been under construction by Iller Bank since 1983, the construction and
rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary sewers, and the construction of a sewage treatment plant with a
capacity of 8 m3 per second. The implementation of this component is far from achieving its physical
objectives as established at appraisal and at subsequent project restructurings (para. 34). The most
significant shortfall was that by the time of the closing date IZSU had not even started the construction
of the sewage treatment plant and, thus, other sewerage investments already made provided no benefit
to the city. The investments already made include:
(i)    17 out of 21 km of sewage interceptors and a tunnel;
(ii)   equipment for four sewage pumping stations;



4
(iii) civil works for two sewage pumping stations currently under construction; and
(iv)   approximately 500 km of secondary and tertiary networks.
13.   Institutional Strengthening -- this component included technical assistance in the areas of
unaccounted-for water and industrial waste management, as well as acquisition of equipment for leak
detection and repair, laboratory, and source meters. Not much progress was made under this project
component as IZSU continues being a highly inefficient utility by most standards -- water supply is still
intermittent for large parts of the population; and the unaccounted-for water is estimated at about 60%
of production.
14.   About US$99 million of the loan was disbursed. Part (US$68 million) of the original loan was
cancelled at IZSU's request in December 1994, US$11,230,000 were cancelled also at IZSU's request
in March 1996, and US$5.4 million remained undisbursed after the last disbursement in May 1996.
E.    Factors Affectine the Achievement of the Project Objectives
15.   The factors preventing the achievement of the project objectives have their roots in the highly
ambitious project design with its large size, multiplicity of project components and executing agencies,
and the financing plan (paras. 30-31) which was based on overoptimistic assumptions regarding the
performance of the executing and financing entities.  Yet, the overriding factor preventing the
achievement of the project objectives was the unsatisfactory performance of IZSU's Board and
management, which was a consequence of IZSU's institutional set up which makes its Board and
management subject to short-term political pressures rather than to the technical needs of a water and
sewerage utility providing high quality services at economic costs.
16.   The project design attempted to insulate the water and sewerage authority from political pressures
and assure that its decisions be made solely on technical criteria by establishing IZSU as a municipal
enterprise based on the model of Istanbul Water and Sewerage Company. This new institutional
arrangement represented an improvement over what existed before the Project (para. 3), but proved to
be not fully satisfactory, as it did not bring about a fundamental change in governance. Under the new
institutional arrangement the entity's governance continued to be subject to short-term political
considerations. The Mayor exercises tight control over IZSU through his position as Chairperson of the
Board and as the authority who proposes to the Minister of Interior the persons to be appointed as Board
members and General Director. The Municipal Council approves water and sewerage tariffs and other
major decisions, particularly investment plans. The major negative consequences of politically-driven
decisions on project implementation are illustrated below.
17.   Firs, IZSU's Board and top management were frequently changed in response to changes in
political circumstances. This practice resulted in IZSU having five successive general managers and four
heads of the PMU during the eight and-a-half years of the loan. The first head of the PMU was
appointed in November 1987, six months after the approval of the Bank loan.
18.   Second, the conflicting views regarding the Project among the five general managers and the three
municipal administrations they represented significantly hampered the prospects of satisfactory project
implementation. The first municipal administration involved in the Project, which was the one
negotiating the loan with the Bank, lost the elections in March 1989, about two years after loan approval,
without having made much progress in project implementation. The next administration did not assign
priority to the Project until 1992 (para. 36), with the consequent further delays in project implementation;
and, the third administration, which took over in April 1994 did not support the implementation of the



5
Project along the lines agreed with the preceding administration. By this time the options available to
reactivate the project were very limited as the grace period of the loan had expired several years before
(1991), making its financial terms very onerous.
19.   Third, IZSU's has been unable to compete effectively in the labor market for staff with the
experience and qualifications to establish and develop a modem utility. This inability is to a large extent
the result of IZSU's Board and management limited autonomy in managing the entity's staff. First, the
personnel structure, including the number of positions in each administrative and operational unit requires
approval of the Ministry of Interior. Second, the salary scales for managerial, professional and
administrative personnel are the same as the ones for civil servants, and in many cases these salary levels
are not sufficient to attract personnel with the required qualifications.
F.    Project Executing Agencies Performance
20.    Project Preparation. Deficient. Izmir authorities failed to take into account the institutional and
financial constraints likely to affect the capacity of the water and sewerage utility to be created to carry
out the project, and also underestimated the problems that could arise as a result of the lack of experience
in project implementation. IZSU's deficient performance may be explained by the prevailing practice in
the Turkish public sector where funds are committed to start investments without reasonable assurances
regarding the availability of funds to complete the investments in a timely manner.
21.    Project Implementation. Deficient. IZSU's performance was deficient. DSI, Iller Bank and
KHGM performance was generally satisfactory, but with delays.' IZSU's deficient performance is
illustrated below.
22.    First, the actions taken by IZSU's Board and management to strengthen the entity's institutional
capability were late and lacking in commitment. It took IZSU until early 1993, about five years after
loan approval, to hire a consulting firm to assess the entity's operational capabilities. This action was
followed by a twinning arrangement with a foreign water company in early 1994, to assist IZSU in the
implementation of the consultant's recommendations. Unfortunately, the twinning was of short duration
(until June 1995) and its limited accomplishments are unlikely to be sustainable. The short duration of
the twinning was the result of a change of IZSU's General Manager. The General Manager succeeding
the one entering into the twinning arrangement considered that the foreign water company could not adapt
itself to the institutional and operational procedures of IZSU, which was subject to the constraints of
several Turkish laws and, thus, could not provide an effective assistance. IZSU's management therefore
brought the twinning arrangement to an end and, instead, appointed nine university professors as part-
time advisors outside the Project.
23.    Second, IZSU's financial performance was substantially below appraisal expectations mainly as
a result of unrealistic water demand projections and of an overoptimistic assessment of IZSU's capability
to develop promptly into an efficient and effective water utility. In fact, according to the SAR, the
volume of water sales was to more than double between 1986 and 1994 (from 61 m3 sold in 1986 to 149
million m3 in 1994), and the non-revenue water was to decrease from an estimated 40% of production
in 1986 to 32% in 1994. Actual results were disappointing: water sales were virtually stagnant (50 to
60 million m3 per year until 1993 and 76 million m3 in 1994), and non-revenue water increased to an
estimated 60% of production. In addition, the total actual operating costs between the first year of project
implementation (1988) and the last year of the financial projections (1994) were about 26% higher than
IZSU's management contends that IZSU's performance was better than DSI and Iller Bank's perfbrmance taking into
account that IZSU's financial contribution to the Project was larger than DSI and Iller Bank's contributions.



6
estimated at appraisal (US$210 million estimated at appraisal vis-a-vis US$264 million actual). The table
below includes a comparison of IZSU's projected and actual operating revenues, operating expenses and
net operating income during 1986-94.
1988         31          19         20         16          11          3
1989        42          24          22         21         20           3
1990         55         54          24         41         31          13
1991         65         65          27         52         28          13
1992         73         81          32         51         41          30
1993         81         101         40         52         41          49
1994         89         60          45         31         44          29
TOTAL        436         404         210        264        216         140
24.   IZSU attempted to close the gap between actual financial results and appraisal estimates by
implementing substantial tariff increases, which were expected to compensate for the lower than projected
volume of water sales. This policy, which led to tariff levels higher than estimated at appraisal every
year starting in 1991 (20% and 73% higher in 1991 and 1992, respectively; about twice as high in 1993;
and 35% higher in 1994 -- details in Table 6) was, however, insufficient to close completely the gap
between appraisal and actual results, and to allow IZSU to fulfill its obligations under the Project.
IZSU's actual tariff levels were below appraisal estimates only during the first two years of project
implementation, and about the same in 1990.
25.    Third, IZSU's performance below appraisal expectations was the immediate cause of costly
mistakes in the allocation of IZSU's resources, as well as of IZSU's lack of compliance with contractors,
as illustrated below:
(i)    the timing of major investments was determined not by their expected benefits, but by
the availability of financial resources from the loan. This was the case of the equipment
for four pumping stations with a total cost of US$24 million, fully financed by the Bank.
The equipment was received between 1992 and early 1993 and there was no place to
install it. This unsatisfactory situation has persisted as none of the pumping stations, of
which the Bank financed 30% to 35%, has been completed yet. IZSU was also able to
acquire at an early stage the pumps and accessories for the water distribution system,
which were 100% Bank-financed;
(ii)   in the case of one awarded contract (Cigli Pumping Station), the contractor took legal
action against IZSU for lack of payment. As a result, the works were not completed,
IZSU incurred in substantial legal costs, and new bids had to be invited; and



7
(iii)   several bids (for the sewage treatment plant, pumping stations and sewage collectors)
issued in 1988-89 were not awarded because of lack of funds.
26.    And, fourth, IZSU was frequently out of compliance with the financial covenants: contribution
to investment, bill collection, and debt and investment limitation. This lack of compliance carried major
significance for the lack of success in project implementation. Compliance with other covenants was
generally satisfactory.
G.     Bank Performance
27.    Project Identification. Satisfactory. The Bank correctly identified the critical need to improve
the provision of water supply and sewerage services in Izmir, while at the same time encouraging the
implementation of improved institutional arrangements and financial policies. In addition, the Bank fully
took into account the Government and Municipal authorities expressions of strong support to the Project.
28.    Project Preparation.  Highly deficient.  Bank performance in project preparation was highly
deficient as its approach to the proposed project was to carry out within a few years the large investments
required to compensate for many years of underinvestment and neglect of the water and sewerage
systems. In addition, the Bank lacked realism by expecting a newly created entity (IZSU) to be able to
carry out the proposed large investment program while simultaneously becoming an efficient water and
sewerage utility.
29.    Project Appraisal. Highly deficient. The Bank failed to give appropriate weight to: (a) available
evidence pointing to the conclusion that the proposed investments in water supply could be postponed,
and that the Project appeared to be more costly than what the Turkish economy, the Izmir Municipality
and the project beneficiaries could afford; and (b) the risks involved in a project where the planning
assumptions were highly unrealistic as the values for most variables (i.e.: sales, prices, local counterpart
financing) were on the "high side". These issues were flagged in a 1987 Bank internal memorandum
(Appendix D) commenting on the Yellow Cover SAR. The main points in the memorandum are the
following:
(i)    the projected water sales were unrealistic, and this had major implications for the timing
of additional water source development, the sizing of water and sewerage networks, and
the financial viability of the investments. To substantiate this point, the memorandum
makes the case that total water sales could be expected to range between 87 and 115
million m3 in 1994 compared to a SAR projection of 149 million m3 ;2
(ii)    it was not likely that the Tahtali water supply system would be required before the turn
of the century, and its full capacity probably would not be needed until after 2010;3
2   Actual yearly sales until 1993 were in the 50 to 60 million m3 range, and 76 million m3 in 1994. This volume of sales,
much lower than projected, was the result of a number of factors, mainly: the inadequate water distribution system,
and the inadequate metering and billing practices. Lack of water supply has not been a factor, as available water has
been about two to three times the water billed (the estimated safe yield of existing water supply sources is 6.1 m3 per
second or 192 million m3per year, and IZSU's estimated water production fluctuated between 138 and 166 m3per year
between 1988 and 1993, and reached 184 million m3 in 1994).
3   Although the timing for additional sources of water is open to discussion, the fact remains that the safe yield of the
existing water supply sources at the time of appraisal - 400 liters per day per inhabitant connected to the system, and
319 liters per inhabitant in the area served by IZSU -- was high by most standards, and thus the first priority was to
improve the distribution and commercialization systems. Also, the implementation of adequate tariff policies should



8
(iii)   the project financing plan was not realistic.  First, the viability of the municipal
contribution (US$108 million) to IZSU was not demonstrated in the SAR, which only
states that it represents one third of the Municipality's investment budget. Second, the
financing plan was further weakened by the excessive optimism underlying the
projections of the volume of water sales and the tariffs; and
(iv)   the Project represented a model which could not be replicated in other urban areas within
a reasonable timeframe, within existing macro-economic constraints.
30.    In addition to the above, it is important to mention three more points regarding the inadequate
Bank performance. First, the project financing plan:
(i)    IZSU would have to service the large Bank loan during project implementation while at
the same time generating funds for investment. This assumption was not realistic, taking
into account that IZSU had just been created and, traditionally, water and sewerage
revenues had only covered operating and maintenance expenditures. The SAR financial
tables clearly show the sharp break with past policies and practices, but the implications
of the break are not evaluated. Some of the relevant figures in the SAR are included
below. IZSU's required debt service and contribution to investment the first full year
(1988) of project implementation amounted to about US$13 million, which was equivalent
to more than four times the internal cash generation (US$3 million) estimated for the year
before appraisal (1986). These requirements continue increasing year by year to about
US$33 million in 1990 and US$47 million in 1992;
(ii)   the design of the Bank loan provided a strong incentive for the acquisition of imported
equipment as the loan financed 100% of this item and only 27% of civil works. The
latter represented a high proportion of the total cost of the Project; and
(iii)   the project cost and financing plan in the SAR did not include the resettlement costs in
the Tahtali dam reservoir area which were to be financed by the Government through
KHGM.
31.    Second, the Bank intention was to have the final designs and bidding documents for the project
ready by the time of loan approval, and for this purpose provided a PPF to Izmir Municipality.
Unfortunately, the Bank ended up approving the loan without final designs for Bank-financed investments.
The first bidding documents for Bank-financed investments (sewage treatment plant and sewage pumping
stations) were available in February 1988, nine months after loan approval.4 This delay in initiating
investments was a significant factor on the unsatisfactory project outcome because of the bunching of
investments in the outer years of project implementation with the increasing demands on IZSU's limited
managerial and financial capabilities. The latter was particularly serious because the project viability had
been based on IZSU performing at a very high level of efficiency. The lack of final designs also helps
to explain the substantial project cost overruns (total costs of US$765 million estimated at the time of the
reduction of the project scope in 1992 compared to US$522 million estimated at appraisal). The
result in a more efficient water usage with the consequent reduction in the quantity of water demanded.
4   IZSU argues that the delays in project implementation were also due to the time-consuming procedures for
expropriating the land (1,500 has) required for constructing the sewage stabilization ponds, and to the Bank insistence
in this technology. From the documents in the Bank's files it is difficult to reach a conclusion regarding the respective
roles of IZSU and the Bank in selecting the technology.



9
estimated cost overruns were mainly caused by sewerage investments, and for the land for both the
sewage treatment plant and the Tahtali dam.
32.   Third, the Bank underestimated the complexity of the resettlement issues under the Project. No
satisfactory resettlement plan existed at appraisal for the families in the area to be inundated by the
Tahtali dam, no budgetary allocations were made for resettlement, and there is no evidence of Bank
contacts with the agency (KHGM) directly in charge of resettlement under the Law. In addition, no plan
was available for the protection of the quality of the water sources for the Tahtali dam, which implies
the regulation and control of the activities of some 6,000 households and industries.
33.   Project Supervision. Partially satisfactory. It is difficult to categorize the performance of the
Bank in project supervision. On the one hand, the efforts made to address the failures of the project
design and to work together with three successive municipal administrations deserve to be commended.
On the other hand, the efforts to improve IZSU's performance without fully addressing the root cause
of its shortcomings -- its political linkage to the Municipal Government, - and the unwillingness to
invoke the Bank remedies when critical covenants were in default were unsatisfactory. A particularly
significant case of the latter failure was when IZSU purchased pipes financed with suppliers credit for
the equivalent of about US$45 million without prior consultation with the Bank as required by the Loan
Agreement (Section 5.04 establishes that any commitment for investments not included in the project or
any long-term borrowing exceeding in the aggregate in any fiscal year the equivalent of US$2 million
required consultation with the Bank). This case was significant not only because of the amounts involved
but also because IZSU failed to disclose this transaction, which took place by the time the 1992 project
restructuring (para. 36) was being discussed. The net result of the Bank's efforts was that it allocated
a substantial amount of its own resources (200 staff-weeks) to supervise during eight-and-a-half years a
project which did not achieve its objectives.
34.   On the satisfactory side of the Bank's performance, it is important to emphasize that at a very
early stage in project implementation, the Bank became aware that the Project as appraised was not
feasible and it made vigorous efforts to assist the successive Izmir and IZSU authorities in restructuring
the Project to the extent necessary to turn it around. In making these efforts the Bank took into account
the need to provide incoming municipal administrations with the opportunity to improve IZSU's
performance. The most significant outcomes of the Bank's efforts were three successive agreements
reached with the Borrower to implement orderly reductions in project scope. These agreements took
place in September 1990, October 1992 and December 1994. The first agreement called for a relatively
minor reduction in project scope (dropping two sewage collectors from the Project), while the other two
called for major reductions. In all cases there was also agreement on institutional and financial actions
to be taken by the Municipality and IZSU to improve performance.
35.   In September 1990, the Bank and the municipal administration which had replaced the one
preparing the Project and negotiating the Loan agreed to a plan of action to reactivate the sewerage
project component, after serious delays in implementation (para. 25). This plan included three main
components.  First, alleviating the burden of the Project on IZSU's finances by postponing the
construction of two sewage collectors (Bornova and Melendez). Second, strengthening IZSU's financial
performance through the implementation of quarterly tariff adjustments to compensate for inflation, and
by increasing Bank financing of civil works from 27% to 30%. And, third, improving IZSU's financial
planning and reporting capabilities by hiring a financial expert to assist the entity's management in this
endeavor. Unfortunately, the municipal and IZSU's authorities suspended the quarterly tariff adjustments
shortly after the agreement was reached and IZSU continued facing severe financial constraints and
further delays in project implementation.



10
36.   In October 1992, the Bank and Izmir and IZSU's authorities reached agreement again on a plan
aiming at facilitating the execution of the sewerage project component. The agreement included three
essential elements, as follows. First, a further reduction in the scope of the sewerage works by reducing
the capacity of the sewage treatment plant from 8.0 to 1.8 m3 per second and reducing the interceptors
and collectors to be built so as to maintain the balance between the flow from the sewage collectors and
the treatment capacity. As a result of this reduction in project scope, the collectors to be constructed
under the Project would directly benefit about 450,000 inhabitants by the year 2000 or about 25% of the
appraisal estimates. The whole population would continue benefitting from the gradual environmental
improvement of the Bay. The original project targets would be achieved by IZSU at a later date, as the
sewage treatment plant could be completed in stages. Second, the financial viability of the plan would
be enhanced by IZSU implementing quarterly tariff adjustments to maintain adequate water and sewerage
tariff levels (the equivalent of US$1.34 per ni3 of water sold), and by the Bank increasing the percentage
of Bank financing of sewerage civil works (from 30% to 35%). And third, IZSU would expand the
institutional strengthening project component through a twinning arrangement (para. 22). The above
agreement was satisfactorily implemented by IZSU for about a year but started falling apart at the
beginning of the municipal electoral campaign in late 1993. At this time, the agreed tariff adjustments
were no longer implemented and the tariff levels dropped in real terms (from US$1.34 per ni3 of water
sold in October 1992 to US$0.75 in April 1994). The situation worsened after the April 1994 election
as the new municipal administration decided to expand the project scope and not to adjust tariffs. The
tariff level declined to the equivalent of US$0.69 in October 1994.
37.   In December 1994, the Bank and the municipal administration which had taken office in April
1994 agreed on a new plan for the completion of the sewerage project component. This plan called for
virtually dropping the sewerage component from the Project. Under the plan, Izmir and IZSU's
authorities would continue carrying out the sewerage project through a BOT arrangement, for which
IZSU had already invited for the submission of proposals. The proposed BOT arrangement included a
sewage treatment plant in the same location and with similar capacity as the one appraised by the Bank
but using a different process (activated sludge rather than lagoons), an additional plant located in the
western part of the city, and the complementary works (interceptors, collectors, network). The Bank
would continue financing only the two ongoing sewerage contracts (Cigli and Karsyaka pumping stations),
the consultants for their supervision, and the water supply component. Also, at IZSU's request the Bank
cancelled US$68 million of the loan amount not yet disbursed. Unfortunately, this plan also failed as the
municipality rejected the two bids received for the BOT.
38.   In October 1995, the Bank, in view of the unlikely prospects for an efficient utilization of the loan
proceeds, communicated to the Borrower its decision not to extend the loan closing date beyond
December 31, 1995. The Bank took this action after having been given warnings to IZSU for about a
year about the low probability of the Bank extending the closing date given the unsatisfactory project
implementation. Nevertheless, the Bank made an exception to its general practice and agreed not only
to keep the loan account open until April 30, 1996 not only in respect of expenditures made before
December 31, 1995, but also in respect of withdrawal applications received in the Bank until April 30,
1996 for goods and services delivered until that date under the contract for the water treatment plant
being built by DSI. This would allow the Bank to finance the equipment for the plant which had been
contracted several years before and was scheduled to be delivered between January and April 1996.
39.   The Bank after some initial delays tried very hard to assist the Turkish authorities in putting in
place and implementing a satisfactory resettlement plan. The main actions taken by the Bank consisted
of: allocating resources from the Italian Trust Fund for the completion of the resettlement plan;
maintaining a continuous dialogue with IZSU, the Treasury, KHGM, DSI and SPO aiming at the
satisfactory implementation of the plan; urging Izmir officials, including the Mayor, to allocate land for



11
resettlement in urban areas; and offering to finance from the loan the cost of the houses for displaced
families (IZSU did not agree with this proposal). The outcome of these efforts was positive as the
affected families are most likely to be relocated on time.
40.   In view of the problems facing the Project, the Bank offered Izmir and IZSU's authorities options
other than the existing loan to finance the environmental improvements of Izmir Bay. In particular, the
Bank offered the possibility of considering a guarantee for the BOT arrangement or a second loan. The
second loan would be contingent to the implementation of improved institutional arrangements, which
would include bringing in a private operator for the water and sewerage services. Izmir and IZSU's
authorities did not show interest on the Bank proposals.
H.    Assessment of Project Outcome
41.   The project outcome was highly unsatisfactory. The investments under the Project were not
completed and little progress was made toward the achievement of the institutional and financial
objectives.
1.     Project Completion and Future Operations
42.   Izmir Municipality and IZSU's authorities as well as the other project executing agencies have
expressed to the Bank their commitment to complete the Project as soon as possible within the financial
constraints facing each one of them. IZSU is advancing the construction of the sewerage works in
progress and it is financing them with internal cash generation made possible by water and sewerage
tariffs increases implemented as of August 1995 and January 1996 (US$0.60 and US$1.14, respectively
per m3 of water sold excluding VAT). For other major investments under the Project, particularly the
sewage treatment plant, IZSU is actively investigating financing options. The sewage interceptors being
built and financed by Iller Bank are likely to be completed by the end of 1997. The Tahtali Water Supply
System being built by DSI is expected to be operational in 1998. In addition, IZSU has yet to ensure
that the households and businesses around the dam do not pollute the water sources.
43.   The Bank bears some responsibility for the situation now confronting IZSU and it should be ready
to consider a loan or guarantee operation to finance the completion of the sewerage system in Izmir,
provided the authorities are willing to implement major institutional and financial reform. In view of the
lessons learned, this reform would call for private sector participation in project execution as well as in
the operation of the water and sewerage utility.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
44.   The key lessons to be learned from this project may make a significant difference in the results
of Bank-financed projects. These lessons are:
(i)   it is highly risky to attempt to compensate for past underinvestment and neglect of water
and sewerage systems by undertaking overly ambitious investment programs. Choices
have to be made to implement gradual improvements which adequately take into account
the prevailing institutional and financial constraints. Emphasis should be put on actions
and investments required for using existing infrastructure in a more efficient manner,
particularly in cases where there is evidence that poor service is due to deficiencies in
system operation and maintenance practices. Additions to installed capacity to meet
future demands should not be undertaken as substitutes for improving operation and



12
maintenance, and should not put an excessive burden on the borrower's implementation
and financial capacity;
(ii)   the Bank loans should generally finance only investments which can be realistically
expected to be completed and commissioned during the grace period for the repayment
of the loan. This approach should result in a sounder financial performance of the
borrowers, particularly revenue-earning entities, and should also provide an incentive to
both borrowers and the Bank to set investment priorities carefully;
(iii)   project appraisal should ensure that the project planning assumptions are realistic and that
appropriate contingency plans are drawn for coping with deviations from the plan.
Projects where the planning assumptions regarding the values of most of the main
variables are on the "high side" are most likely to result in unsatisfactory project
implementation and rates of return lower than estimated at appraisal; and
(iv)   utilities subject to strong political interference are unlikely to become effective and
efficient organizations without substantial reform to ensure that the utility's management
has the continuity, the authority, the incentives and the resources to effectively discharge
its responsibilities. Meeting these conditions will require in many cases private sector
participation in the provision of services under adequate monitoring of performance by
municipal authorities.



13
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:    Project's Physical Components
Table 5B      Contract Procurement Schedule
Table 5C      Project Implementation Schedule
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:    IZSU Income Statements (1987-1995)
Table 15:    IZSU Balance Sheets (1987-1995)
m:\bg\uUmir%iu.2



14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                Substantial        Partial      Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                        [J               [I     I                    [
Sector Policies                                   J             EJ            EJ            E
Financial objectives                          [               |xJ |EJ
Institutional development                    [- J                                           EJ0
Physical objectives                             0E                            E      0E
Poveaty reduction                                 ] 0                             ]
Gender concerns                                                                            MC   ] 02]
Other ocial objectives                       [ J                                              - I 
Environmental objectives                                        EJ           I              EJ 
Public sector management                     I                                E            I   I
Private sector development                   j                                [            I
Other(specify)                                                 1                  ]        t   I
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely                  Unlikely            Uncertain
C]                      1  1 
Highly
C. Bank Performance                           Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                ni                     j         X                ]
Preparation assistance                                               j                     E   I
Appraisal                                    j                       |         |    
Supervision                                                          I                     [X)
Highly
D. Borrower Perfornance                   Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                  1                       (                      EJ
Implementation                               J                       I                     I 3
Covenant compliance                             -]                   |         |]
E. Asesmo  nt of Outcome                     Highly                                         Highly
Satisfactory         Satis.      Unsatis.        unsatisfactory
O]    I] C I1O2]



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS                           Page 1 of 2
Loan Title                           Purpose                        Year of    Status
Approval            l
?roeedig XOperastions-
':::: , :........,, -.:,... -.,'.-'.
Istanbul Urban          To provide assistance for the preparation of an    1972      Closed
Development Project    integrated urban development program and an
(Credit No. 324-TU)    urban transport/land model.                                           l
Istanbul Water Supply    To increase production of potable water for       1972      Closed
Project                 Greater Istanbul and set up a regional water
(Loan No. 844-TU)       supply and sewerage authority in the Istanbul
Metropolitan area.
Istanbul Sewerage I     To expand and improve sewage collection in         1982      Closed
(Loan No. 2159-TU)      Istanbul; to reduce water pollution in the Golden
Horn and the sea of Marmara; and to strengthen
the Municipal Water Company ([SKI).                                  l
Cukurova Region         To identify and design investments for five        1985      Closed
Urban Engineering       municipalities in the Cukurova Region; to develop
Project                 complementary policies and national, regional and
(Loan No. 2537-TU)      local institutional arrangements to support
decentralization, achieve integrated regional and
urban planning, and improve urban efficiency.
Cukurova Urban          To assist the municipalities to overcome service   1987      Closed
Development Project     deficiencies and manage urban growth through the
(Loan No. 2819-TU)      financing of urban infrastructure; introduce
municipal policies and institutional arrangements
which would be suitable for replication in other
cities for investment planning and implementation,
cost recovery, financial management, and staff
development; and build a capacity in Iller Bankasi
to appraise and monitor municipal infrastructure
projects and investments programs.
'''';lW*ng Operatins'''"''''  
....   -,,:'':'--"':::: ..    .....................................
Istanbul Water Supply    To improve and extend sewerage service to 70%     1987      Active
and Sewerage            of the population of Istanbul by the end of 1994;
(Loan No. 2888-TU)      to provide for appropriate treatment and disposal
of sewage, to protect the water and shorelines of
the sea of Marmara and the Bosphorus; to reduce
unaccounted-for water; and to strengthen ISKI's
operation and maintenance, and industrial waste
management capabilities.



16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS                        Page 2 of 2
Loan Title                         Purpose                      Year of    Status
Approval
Ankara Sewerage       To eliminate the discharge of untreated sewage to  1989   Active
(Loan No. 3151-TU)    the Ankara river and its tributaries flowing
through Ankara; to extend sewerage to
approximately 850,000 unserved persons; to
reduce flooding during heavy rainstorms; and to
l___________________  improve ASKI's operations and maintenance.
Earthquake            To reconstruct housing, infrastructure and other  1992    Active
Rehabilitation and    facilities required for restoring economic activity
Reconstruction        in the affected areas.
(Loan No. 3511-TU)                                                                      l
Bursa Water and       To improve environmental conditions and reduce   1993     Active
Sanitation            health hazards in Bursa metropolitan area; to
(Loan No. 3565 and    improve the management of municipal water
Loan No. 3566-TU)     supply and sewer services, and of domestic,
industrial and clinical solid waste; to meet the
demand for water supply, sewerage, flood
protection, and solid waste services including the
demand of the poor living in the fringes of the
city; to postpone the need to develop new water
resources by increasing efficiency of water usage
by reducing the volume of non-revenue water; and
to implement appropriate cost recovery policies.
Antalya Water Supply   To meet at least cost the demand for water supply,  1995  Active
and Sanitation        sewerage and stormwater drainage; to develop
(Loan No. 3893-TU)    new institutional arrangements for managing the
municipal water supply and sewerage and
stormwater drainage, and to introduce private
sector participation in the operation of the
services; to implement appropriate cost recovery
policies; to postpone the need to develop new
water resources; to improve and sustain
environmental conditions and reduce health
hazards.
m:\bg\tuidzmirtable2



1 7
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification               Apr-84                   Jul-85
Preparation                   Sep-85                 Apr-86
Appraisal                    May-86                  Nov-86
Negotiations                 Nov-86                  Apr-87
Board presentation           Dec-86                  May-87
Signing                       Jun-87                  Jun-87
Effectiveness                 Oct-87                  Oct-87
Project completion           Dec-94              Not yet completed
Loan closing                  Dec-95                 Dec-95
m:\bg\tur\izmir\table3 .xls



18
TABLE 4: LOAN ICREDII DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUALS
(US$ million)
FY88           4.8                             11.1         231.3
FY89          23.2                             12.1          52.2
FY90          52.4                             22.6          43.1
FY91          85.2                             39.4          46.2
FY92          118.0                            54.8          46.4
FY93          143.6                            61.8          43.0
FY94          163.8                            74.3          45.4
FY95          178.6            85.5            79.1          44.3        92.5
FY96          184.0           116.0            99.4          54.0        85.7
Date of final disbursement: May 16, 1996
Note:
The disbursements in FY88 were for the Special Account (US$10.0 million)
and for the payment of the Project Preparation Facility Advance.
m:%bgUurUzmir\wbI4.iI



Page lof 2
TABLE 5A: PROIECT'S PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
Part A: Water Supply Improvenent
1. Completion of the construction of                                             1 The construction of the dam
Tahtali Damn and reservoir.                                                      is close to completion (92% progress).
2. Construction of intake, water treatment plant,                                2. The physical progress of the intake
pumping station, 32 km of water transmission line                                and the pumping station is 98 %.
and a storage rcservoir.                                                         The general progress for the treatment plant
is 65 %; 15 out of 32 km. of the transmission line.
3. Expansion and reinforcement of the water distribution network.                3.
a. construction of 320 km of primary distribution.                               a. 102 kmn. of primary distribution pipes have been installed.
b. construction of 800 km of secondary distribution.                             b. 1049 km. of secondary distribution system pipes have been installed.
c. 23 pumping stations.                                                              (includes expansion and rehabilitation)
d. 179,000 m3 of distribution storage.                                           c. 11 pumping stations have been constructed.
d. 17 distribution storage have been constructed
with a capacity of 113,000 in3.
4. Rehabilitation and replacement of about:                                      4.
a. 77 km of distribution main.                                                  a. Included in 3b.
b. 50,000 customer meters.                                                      b. 50,000 new customer meters have been purchased and installed.
c. 50,000 service connections.                                                  c. 50,000 service connections have been installed.
d. 5 source meters.                                                             d. not purchased.
5. Installation of about 200,000 new metered water connections.                  5. With the installation of about 130,500 new  onnections
__________________________________________________________    about 300,000  new   houweholds have  been  served.



Page 2of 2
TABLE 5A: PROJECT'S PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
Part B: Sewerage Collection and Treatment
a. The construction of this was taken out of the project.
a. Construction of interceptor section 1.                                    b. The construction of the tunnel for section 2
b. Completion of interceptor section 2, 3 and 4.                                  have been completed. The lining is to be completed by IZSU.
The construction of section 3 and 4 is 88% completed.
Section 5, 6, and 7 and the force main for two pumping
stations were taken out of the project in October 1992.
c.  The construction of the sewage treatment plant has yet to start.
c.  Construction of sewage treatment facilities                                   Only the preloading have been completed.
comprising a series of stabilization ponds
d.  The construction of only two pumping stations have started.
d. Construction of seven interceptor and collector pumping stations
and associated force mains.                                               e.  The construction of only 2 km of collectors have been completed.
e.  Construction of about 69 kIm of collectors.                               f & g. 544 km of pipes have been installed.
f. Construction of about 430 km of secondary and tertiary sewers.
g. Rehabilitation or replacement of about 77 km. of secondary
and tertiary sewers.
h. Installation of about 300,000 sewerage connections.
Part C: Institutional Improvements
a. IZSU prepared and put into effect the regulations for the control
a. Technical assistance for the borrower in the areas of unaccounted-for         of industrial waste treatment and disposal. The regulations
water control, industrial waste treatment and disposal, and in the            on the protection of Tahtali Dam were also put into effect.
preparation and implementation of regulations for industrial                  IZSU entered into a contract with a foreign water company under a twinni
waste disposal and sewer use.                                                 arrangement. However, the results are unlikely to be sustainable.
b. This training was not carried out.
b. Training of the borrower's staff in the operation and maintenance
of facilities constructed under the project.                               c. The flow meters, correlator and logger were provided for the unit worki
c. Provision for the Borrower vehicles, equipment, and materials for              unaccounted-for water reduction.
operation and maintenance.
m~~~~~~~~~~xiiv,drVabi.kxb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



21                                       Page 1 of2
TABLE SB: CONTRACT PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
iContract (Project Component)      SAR    ACT    SAR   ACT
I                                                            .
I Tahtali Dam and Reservoir (Al)    04/86   07/86   12/89  07/96
2 Tahtali Intake, PS & WTP CW (A2)    12/87   01/93   12/91  03/97
3 Tahtali Intake, PS & WTP EQ (A2)  09/87   01/93   06/91  03/97
4 Tahtali Transmission Main (A2)    03/88   12/92   12/90  09/96
. Tahtali Terminal Reservoir (A2)   03/88       -   12/90      -
6 Resettlement                          -   10/93       -   08/96
7 Primary Mains Installation (A3)   01/87   01/87   12/94  12/95 2_
8 Tertiary Mains Installation (A3)  01/87   01/87   12/94  12/95 9
9 System Rehabilitation CW (A4)     01/87   01/87   12/94  12/95 c
10 Water Connection Installation (A5)  01/87   01/87   12/94  12/95 0'
11 Supply of Pipes & Fittings (A3,A4,A5)  01/87   12/90   06/94  111/92  _
X   Supply of Customer Meters (A4)    03/87    12/89   12/94  09/94
13-Source Meter Installation (A4)    08/87       -   12/87      -
14 Source Meter EQ (A4)               07/87       -   10/87      -
15 Distribution Reservoirs (A3)      08/87   08/87   12/94  12/95 4 
16 Water Pump Station CW (A3)        09/87   09/87   12/94  12/95 9 
17 Water Pump Station EQ (A3) 1'     09/87       -   06/94       -
.Total of 8,9,10,15,16             01/87   01/87   12/94  12/95
18 Tahtali Engineering (A2)          05/87   10/89   06/94  05/96
19 Distribution Engineering (A3)     12/87       -   12/94      -
20 Sewage Treatment Plant CW (B3)    10/88   06/92"  12/92          _
21 Sewage Treatment Plant EQ (B3)    10/88   06/92   12/91          _
Supply of Pipes Fittings (A3,A4,A5)
These dates are the dates related to preloading. The WWTP has not been tendered yet.
Dates refer to first contract when there Is more than one contract
Dates refer to last contract when there is more than one contract
These works will be done continously due to their nature



22                                        Page 2 of 2
TABLE SB: CONTRACT PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Contract (Project Component)       SAR      ACT    SAR   ACT
22 Interceptor Section 1 (B1)         04/89        -    12/92     -
23 Interceptor Section 2,3 & 4 (B2)   01/83   07183   12/90  1i2/97
24 Sewage Pump Station CW (B4)        02/89    03/89 3  12/93  06/96
25 Sewage Pump Station EQ (84)        12/88   09/88   06/93  05/93
26 Primary & Secondary Collectors (B5)   06/88    06/93    12/94  01/96
27 Tertiary Collectors (86)           09/87   09/87    12/94  12/95 cJ
28 Sewerage System Rehabilitation (B7)  09/87    09/87   12/94  12/95 c'
29 Sewer Connections (88)             08187   08187   12/94  12/95 2
30 Supply of Sewer Pipes (B5,B6,B7) u    09/87     -   06/94      -
31 Supply of PVC Linings (BII,B2,B5) 4    05/89    -    12/89     -
Total of 27,28,29                  08/87   08/87   12/94  12/95 cl
32 Sewerage Engineering (B(all))      03/87    12187   12/94  Dec-95
33 Project Mangement (ABC(all))       12/87        -    12194     -
34 0 & M Equipment Supply (C3M) i     08/87    03/91    06/94  12/95
35 Technical Assistance (C1,C2)  '    09/87    11/92   12/90  11/96
Total
X The Contract for gl6Ii Pumping Station was cancelled in 1991.
The new contract was signed in October 1993.
i All pipes for collectors have been produced by contractor on the side.
ff Purchase of computers.
IV It includes Price Waterhouse, SAUR-Su Yapi, BVI Amendment 7-8.
' Dates refer to first contract when there is more than one contract
' Dates refer to last contract when there is more than one contract
f These works will be done continuoulsy due to their nature



27
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(USS million)
IBRD                       184          184              0        184       116         98
Izmir Municipality 1/      108          108              0          0         0         10
IZSU                       103          268            165       224        152         82
DSI                         50          123             73        123       134         90
Iller Bank                  77           82              5        82         88         79
Total                   522           765            243       613        490         359
1/ The Municipality contribution to the Project was applied to service the Bank loan.
table Sa.xis



28
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not reestimated as the project has not been completed.
m:\bg\tur\izmir\table9.xIs



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
|  Agreemenet    - - Setion     Covenant Typep      Present    Description of covenants         Comments
Status
LA        3.01(b)        Project Management        C       Project management unit
adequately staffed
LA        3.02(b)        Other                     C       Land acquisition
LA        3.04 and side   Environmental            C       Controlling industrial   A program was prepared and
letter                                          waste discharge          its implementation initiated.
LA        3.05            Monitoring, review      CP       Semiannual progress      The reports on the entity's
and reporting                    reports on the entity's  financial status and on project
financial status, progress   implementation were
in project implementation   satisfactory. No adequate
information was provided to
the Bank on the management
of the industrial waste
program.
LA        5.01 (b)       Audits                   NC       IZSU's audited financial    The private external auditors
statements               always expressed "no opinion"
on IZSU's financial
statements.
LA        5.01 (b)       Audits                    C       Audit of Special Account
LA        5.02 (a)       Counterpart funding      NC       Contribution to investment
_L -      -I                                                               _         11 



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Ag r         .t  . SetonCovenant vTyp.     |Present                 Description ofcovenants            Commnts
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _..  I S tatu s~  ..                     ...   ..   ...   ..
LA         5.03 (a)        Accounts                   CP       Revaluing its assets       IZSU started revaluing its assets
in 1992. The external audits,
however, have questioned the
methodology for the evaluation.
LA         5.03 (b)        Financial Performance      NC       Tariff study               The study was carried out, but
recommendations were not fully
implemented.
LA         5.05            Financial performance      NC       Plan for settling accounts  The plan was submitted but the
receivable and payable with   accounts receivable continued at
Government entities        unacceptable levels (estimated at
5.2 months of billing as of
September 1995).
GA         3.01            Involuntary resettlement   CP       Resettlement plan for the   The plan was submitted but its         0
Tahtali Reservoir          implementation is behind
schedule.
LA         3.02            Environmental              C        Inspection of Tahtali Dam
LA         5.04             Financial performance     NC       Debt and investment         IZSU carried out investments
limitation outside the project  exceeding the limit without
(US$2.0 million a year)    proper consultation with the
Bank.
C:    covenant complied
CD:   complied with after delay
CP:   complied with partially
NC:   not complied with
m:\bg\tir\izmir\tabIelO



31
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There is no evidence of non-compliance.



32
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
(in staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                       Planned             Actual
Preparation to appraisal                                   not availabe           110
Appraisal                                                  not available           30
Negotations-Board Approval                                 not available           7
Supervision                                                not available          200
Completion                                                     15                  25
Total                                                                      372
m:\bg\tur\izmir\table 12. a



33
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance ratinP2
Stage of                           Number of Days in  Specialized Staff skills  Implementation  Development   Types of
Project Cycle          Month/year     Persons    Field       represented/1         Status       Objectives    problems/3
Through appraisal                  7/85 - 9/86                  72                  F,N,E
Appraisal through Board approval     Nov-86              2      16                    F,N
Board Approval through effectiveness
Supervision                          Jun-87              3       3                  F,N,E       1              1
Supervision                          Jan-88              2       5                   F + N      1              1            T
Supervision                          Apr-88              2       6                   F+N                                    T
Supervision                          Jun-88              2       5                   F+N        1              1            T
Supervision                          Dec-88              2       4                   F + N                                 F,M
Supervision                          May-89              3      15                   F-+ N      2              1           F,M
Supervision                          Nov-89              1      11                      N       3              2           F,M
Supervision                          Mar-90              2       6                   F+N        3              2           F,M
Supervision                          Jun-90              2       4                   F+N        3              2           F,M
Supervision                          Dec-90              1       6                      N       2              2           F,M
Supervision                          May-91              2       9                   F-+ N      2              2            F
Supervision                          May-92              3       8                  2F-+ N      3             3           F,M,T
Supervision                          Oct-92              3      18        F + N + consultant    3             3           F,M,T
Supervision                          Mar-93              3       8   2F + N + 2Resettlement     3             3            F,M
Supervision                          Dec-93              3       6     F + N + Resettlement     2             2             F
Supervision                          Jun-94              3      13                  2F+N        U             U            F,M
Supervision                          Dec-94              3      16                  2F+N        U             U            F,M
Supervision                          Jun-95              2       5                     2F      HU             HU           F,M
Completion                           Nov-95              2       6                     2F      HU             HU           F,M
1-Specialization                                           2-Performance Rating           3-Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                                        1 = Minor problems             F= Financial
E = Economist                                              2- =Moderate Problems          T= Technical
D = Education Specialist                                   3- = Major problems            M   Managerial
F=Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N= Engineer
R= Forestor
m:\bg\tur\izmir\1 3.xls



_______________ _    TABLE 14: IZSU INCOME STATEMENTS (1987 - 1995)
(US$ million)
_________  1987      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992                   1994       1995
Total Operating Revenue                       26.82      19.47      24.36      53.95      65.44         A 81.19    100.77   60.19 56.81
Operating Expenses                  ________
Staff Costs                                                 6.57       9.45      27.25      31.17      23.52       24.19      12.71      13.16
Provision for employee lermination benefits                            0.00       0.00       0.00       11.65       8.55       2.33       0.26
Energy Costs                  _     ___                     7.20       8.80      10.01      10.35       10.61      12.07       7.89       9.76
Raw Materials                       _                       0.94       1.25       1.75       2.40        1.72       1.70       1.43       3.52
Depreciation                      _    ___                  0.70       0.95       0.92       0.86       0.92        0.83       0.47       0.86
Provision for bad and doubtful debts                 __                                      4.87       0.86        0.74       2.35       0.29
Repair and Maintenance    __        _         __                       0.16       0.14       0.10       0.48        2.46       2.42       2.08
Communication Expenses                                                 0.08       0.10       0.08       0.24        0.23       0.13       0.10
Notary and legal expenses                     ____                     0.00       0.03       0.19       0.09        0.31       0.25       0.00
Rent Expenses                                                          0.21       0.22       0.22       0.04        0.32       0.55       0.81
ESHOT balance written.off              =1 __                     _      _                    I .12                  0.13
Other Expenses                                              0.53       0.12       0.88       0.45        0.45       0.26       0.42       1.83
Total Operating Expense                     18.75       15.93      21.03      41.30      51.82      50.58      51.79      30.94      32.66
Net Income from Opelraions              ___    8.07 _         3.54     3.33      12.65      13.62      30.61       48.98      29.24      24.14
Non-operating income            _        __     ___         2.67       2.75       3.36       5.17       5.49        8.18       7.27       5.71
Non-operating expenses    __      __                        0.00       _   _                 I.09        1.87       3.32       1.85       0.27
Net Non-Operating income                    _____           2.67       2.75   _  3.36        4.08       3.62       4.86        5.42       5.44
Financial expenscs                 ____0.00                            1.70       2.25       9.47       5.40        5.34       6.18       4.93
Net Income for the Year                          8.07       6.201      4.38      13.76       8.23      28.83       48.50      28.48      24.66
Municipal Grants and Other Income                                                                                   4.10      12.31       0.00
Income after extraordinary income                8.07       6.20       4.38      13.76       8.23      28.83       52.60      40.79      24.66
Oprating Ratio                                   0.70       0.82       0.86       0.77       0.79       0.62        0.51       0.51       0.57
Average Exchange Rate                            855       1,421      2,120      2,606      4,168      6,864      10,965     29,668     45,731
Note: 1991-1994 IZSU financial statements audited by private independent extemal auditors.  ___|_. _     __ j
1987-1990 IZSU financial statements unaudited.  |    .-                                                                           I
IZSU has capitalized the borrowing costs incurred in respect of foreign borrowings (i.e. interest expenses and foreign exchange losses)  - |
as part of construction work in progress.       _     _                                _______
Breakdown for 1987 not available         _______       __ __ ___ __
m:b\W Ki U.                                                                                                         x 1   _ _  _ t 



Appendix A
Page 3 of 16
Annex 1
TURKEY
lzmir Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2818-TU)
Guidelines for The Evaluation Report to be prepared by IZSU
The following issues should be addressed in the final evaluation report to be prepared by
IZSU:
(a) the assessment of the project objectives, design, and implementation;
(b) the evaluation of IZSU's own performance (including DSI, Iler Bank and KHGM's
performance) during the preparation, appraisal, and implementation stages of the project
with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
(c) the evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the preparation, appraisal and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship among
IZSU, DSI, Iller Bankasi, KHGM and the Bank, with special emphasis on lessons
learned; and
(d) the plan and timetable for the completion of the project as restructured in October 1992,
defining the indicators to be used to monitor project implementation.
Information to be provided by IZSU to the Bank
(a) Information on tariffs and tariff structure (1987-1995); calculation of average tariffs,
providing a copy of the Board resolution for each tariff increase.
(b) Comparison between estimates water demand/production and related indicators (SAR
Annex 2, page 36) and actual results (1987-1995).
(c) Comparison between estimates of sewerage connections and related indicators (SAR
Annex 3, page 37) and actual results (1987-1995).
(d) Comparison between estimates of the project cost and financing plan (SAR Annex 5,
page 40-42 and page 17) and actual results.
(e) Comparison between estimates of monitoring indicators (SAR annex 1 1, page 49) and
actual results (1987-1995).
(f) Comparison between estimates of Income Statements, Sources and Applications of
Funds, and Balance Sheets (SAR Annex 12, 13 and 14, pages 50-52) and actual results
(1987-1995).
(g) Comparison between the estimates of the expansion, reinforcement, and rehabilitation of
the water and Sewerage networks (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement) and actual results.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 16
Annex 2
TURKEY
Izmir Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2818-TU)
Status of Project Execution
Sewerage Project Component
1.    The different elements of this project component as restructured in October 1992, have
progressed at an uneven pace, and the investments already made will not produce benefits to Izmir
until the wastewater treatment plant and its complementary works, which have not yet been started,
are built. The status of the main elements is as follows:
(a) the construction of the wastewater treatment plant with a minimum capacity of 1.8 m3
second has yet to start. The cost is estimated at about US$90 million, to be financed by
IZSU;
(b) the construction of the force main and the Box Culvert has yet to start. The cost is
estimated at about US$20 million, to be financed by IZSU;
(c) the construction of the main interceptors is well advanced (14 out of 19 kn). The
investment to be made after the closing date amounts to about US$9 million, to be
financed by Iller Bank;
(d) the construction of the two pumping stations (Cigli and Karsiyaka) is well advanced and
they are expected to be completed in 1997. This schedule takes into account the time
required to dry the construction sites for both stations, which were inundated during the
recent (November 1995) floods in Izmir. The investment to be made after the closing
date is estimated at about US$9 million, to be financed by IZSU; and
(e) the data on construction of collectors, secondary and tertiary sewers and sewerage
connections is to be updated by IZSU. IZSU will also prepare by November 30, 1995 a
comparison between the figures in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement and the actual
results.
Water Supplv Proiect Component
2.    The construction of the different elements of this project component has progressed at a
relatively even pace but the resettlement of the displaced population and the land expropriation have
lagged behind. The lag in the resettlement of the affected population and in land expropriation are
likely to result in both hardship for the population and further delays in the commissioning of the
Tahtali Water Supply System. The status of the main elements of this project component is as
follows:
Construction
(a) the Tahtali Dam is close to completion and the impoundment is scheduled to take place at
the end of 1995. The investment to be made after the loan closing date amounts to about
USS14 million, to be financed by DSI;



Appendix A
Page 5 of 16
Annex 2
(b) the water treatment plant is well advanced, and 90% of the equipment is scheduled to be
delivered by the suppliers before the end of 1995. The investment to be made after the
closing date amounts to about US$23 million, including US$1 million of consultant fees,
,to be financed by DSI;
(c) the water transmission line has a physical progress of about 40%, and all the required
materials are scheduled to be in stock by the end of 1995. The investment in civil works
to be made after the loan closing date amounts to about US$7 million, to be financed by
DSI;
(d) the information on the expansion, reinforcement and rehabilitation of the water
distribution network, as well as on the number of new metered connections is to be
updated by IZSU. IZSU will also prepare by November 30, 1995 a comparison between
the figures in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement and the actual results;
Resettlement
(e) the construction of houses for 286 families which have requested resettlement in rural
areas has a physical advance of about 50% since its initiation two years ago (October
1993). The construction of houses for 35 families in urban areas has yet to be tendered.
The investment to be made in the rural area after the closing date amounts to US$11
million, and to US$1 million in the urban area. All houses are to be financed by
K(1HGM;
Land expropriation
(f)  the expropriation process for 54% of the land (1,018 out of 2,018 has.) required for the
Tahtali Dam. the treatment plant and the roads has been completed. The expropriation
cost for the remaining land is estimated at about US$19 million, to be financed by DSI;
(g) the expropriation process for the approximately 580 has. for the Absolute Protection
Zone has yet to start. The expropriation cost is estimated at about US$17 million, to be
financed by IZSU;
(h) the expropriation of the 33 has. of land for the water transmission line between the dam
and Izmir Airport has been completed. The expropriation process for 11 has, from the
airport to the reservoir in Izmir has yet to start. The investment to be made after the
closing date amounts to US$5 million, to be financed by IZSU; and
Twinning Proiect Component
(i)  IZSU's twinning company completed the first stage of the work in June 1995.
Continuation of the second stage, implementation of the recommendations, was subject to
the negotiation of a new contract. IZSU decision was no to enter into a second contract
and to implement the consultant's recommendations with the help of individual
consultants. With this purpose, IZSU has hired 17 advisors outside the Project.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 16
Annex 2
Summar of Main Investments After Closing Date
3.    The total investments to be carried out after loan closing date amount to about US$225
million as shown in the table on the next page.
IZSU's 1995 Financial Perfomnance
4.    IZSU's financial performance during January-September 1995 has been highly unsatisfactory.
IZSU's cash collection from bills, tax sharing and other revenues (US$41.8 million) have barely been
sufficient to cover its most urgent operating expenditures (US$24.2 million) plus an amount
equivalent to the debt service requirements (US$17.7 million). The debts, however, have not been
fully serviced (only US$9.9 out of the US$17.7 million) by IZSU as the cash has been used to
partially finance its investments (US$12.9 million) during the year. The remaining part of the
investments have been financed by credits.
5.    IZSU's unsatisfactory financial performance is the result of two main factors. First, water
and sewerage tariffs were not adjusted between October 1993 and August 1995. This delay resulted
in a reduction in the tariff levels from the equivalent of about US$1.35 per m3 of water sold in
October 1993 to USS0.37 in July 1995. Tariff levels after the August adjustment are estimated at
about US$0.75 per m3 sold (based on September billing), which is still insufficient to satisfy IZSU's
financial requirements, including the financing of its investment plan. Earlier estimates of required
tariffs have been in the order of US$1.05 to US$1.35 per m3 of water sold, depending on the size of
the investment plan. Second. bill collection continues being unsatisfactory as the bills outstanding as
of the end of September 1995 are equivalent to 5.2 months of billing.
IZSU's Compliance with Loan Covenants
6.    IZSU is out of compliance with several covenants under the Loan Agreement with the Bank,
including: the revenue covenant - Section 5.02; consultations with the Bank about investmnents and
borrowing outside the Project - Section 5.04. Other covenants are only partially in compliance:
resettlement - Section 3.01; collection of accounts receivable - Section 5.05.



Appendix A
Page 7 of 16
Annex 2
TABLE
Summary of Investments After Closing Date
Item                         Executing and Financing Agency
IZSU       DSI  I  EB   I KHGM    TOTAL
(US$ million)
Sewerage
Treatment plant                   90.00                                 90.00
Force main & Culvert              20.00                                 20.00
Interceptors                                           9.00     -        9.00
Pumping, stations                 9.00                                   9.00
Subtotal                     119.00     0.00      9.00     0.00    128.00
Water Supply
Tahtali Dam                                  14.00                      14.00
Treatment plant                             23.00            _          23.00
Transmission line                            7.00                        7.00
Resettlement                                                   12.00    12.00
Expr. for dam                                19.00           _______   19.00
Expr. for APZ                     17.00                                 17.00
Expr. for transmission            5.00                                   5.00
Subtotal____________________   22.00     63.00    0.00      12.00    97.00
141.00      63.00   9.00       12.00   225.00
m:Abg\twmij.aidmem .n6



Appendix A
Izsu                                        Page  8  of  16
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                        Annex 2
._ . ......... ....
o  ..7A  C-- P   Nisburded                               To               -       -eisburte
Contract .A  (Cidli P*S old)    1006  1. 0.0.. .0.06-..- ..........._
Contract..,.,.,'.:. 8A;,J,.,,*9$,,B, &yaka P/S. .-:.i:- .j:.j....   481.t... S; 18  -:'- -,_ .......  .... .at...9
ContrEc- .A  (Kyaka Colector)    a~  1- 06  1060... ... .. . .....
..  .:..,- -. .z. l              -''a&.. .                                     an .-X&-            a:  E * E  -..-.-. :D::tE:i : 
C. .- a E-: n  I .. ....         .. ....   -. : . .---i.                -       --
_  1 _    1 ;                                            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US DOLLAR MILLION)
Contract 7A  (Cidli PIS aid)          10.0  006       10.06        10.06..                          .       .
Contract 7A  (Ciali PIS Now)    7.99       2.45      3.41        I 3.79         0.13                 4.20_ 4.2               1st art of'96
Contrmct 8A  K.aka P/S)          10 24    4.32       4.81          5.18         0.13     5.06                    5.06    1st ort of 96
Cotra n   1A.0                         1801 a C18 1.           1.06                                        1
Contract~ ~ ~ .. ..                                              ......  .... ....                 .. :........ - i i    '  : t:'t"t; '5,t'l.X 
X    00           I         _                     X X                     I    1.   =                 . X~~~~~~~~~VA 
(B)   Equipment
(100% WB Finance)
Contract 5-W  (Soil Lab)         0.12     0.12       0.12         0.12=
Contract 6 (PIS Ecuipment)       24.25    24.25      24.2S        -24.25.                           
Comouteri(Wana)                J 5.27     42. .      4.91         4.91           .     _0.36        1          I 0.36   1 0 start8of 9
Vles and Acc ssories    |      18;01   : 18.01     1.01   -      8.:1-;.: :|
(C)   Consultant
(100 % WB Finance)       |
Su_ervision-1__nst./BVI_         7.44 _7_44          7.44       I7.44 
Suoervision-2 /BVI)              2.48    1.95      12.22          2.40    0_ 1t          0.08                   0 T 08     4
SAUR Institution                          2 .12 L. .20            2.20-                                   -
Auditino                         0.43     0.27      . 0.31         0.31           .      0.12           _       0.12
COM Institution                  0 072    0.72 2     0.72.        0.72
|(DiZSU 100% Finance            |          _                     _             __|-_
Contract 6 (Preload)            1l23    |1.23    | 1. 23        | 1.23         |           -       -      -       -
|Water Suoly Network-Civil   | 48.08   | 29.96       30.74        31.02                  17.06                  17.06 .   4th art of 97
WIS House Connection             350      0.99       0.99         0.99                                          2.1    4th  rt of 97
Sewer Network                   '13.46    11i13      12.58         2.58                                         0 88 -   4th art of 97
|Land (Water Distribution)     |       ".30 |0.82  | 104        | 1.13       |           10.17  |               1'01 7 | 4th 2rt or 97
I Land (APZ)                    | 1_.63                                                            _  |16.63  __|  | 16.63   4th art of .97
|  Land IWater Pipeline)_         3 37                                                    3. - ||337   |        |3 37    4th art of 97
I-Land (Sewer)                   | 7.40 1   2.24       2.42     .  2.51       4|   .        89 -    -      -      4 89    4th art of 97
|LLand (WWTP)                  | 38.33     i    .35.73  36.52.  | 36.84      |   *       1.49   | -             1 .49    4th qrt of '97
SUM  4   1t43.30  L:82).t                                         5700            -        7.0 
|        #lsu  - no n  T  a-    ---- -*0- -7$---  j;; u   <S   -    t     i                     Y                                   *st6     .;;



Appendix A
Page 9 of 16
lzsu
Annex 2
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
C.ioutrset No 1 lnstauneiWTP   iLdL.  ~  .12...ZL...........     14           To     t.    t 
Contract N. 2 .    e       17       jj.,..    S_            'y :Ai _                                                     i .Zn~.  . .....
(A)A CiiWok  M                                  (US OOLLAR   ILLION)
(W10S0%S Financina)                                                                       . 
Contract No.1 Intake/WTP   18.38    8.10         10.32       10.78        0.14             7.0            7.60    4th art of 96
Contract No.2 Piaelene     179    S.03         7 78                     0.25.4                     -     .42    4th art of 097
lixl 
(8)   Equipment
(100% WS Finace)                                           
!Contract Nol1lntake/WTP  ..3         2618 1   3.17          9.05        5.E         =     4.68     =     4.6a   4th art of '96
-Contract No.2 Piceline    7.13      3.91       5.55 .4 ...             1.29              0 29           0 29    4th. sart. of 96
(C)   Consultant            4.18      2.61      2.77        2.89         0.12              1.27           1.27    2nd qrt of 97
(100 __         WB Finance)                                                      -       -
(0) DSI Finance                                                                                           -r
|Component                                                         
Tahtali Dam       .        64.5    47.40        49.30       50.7                          13.93          13.93   4th art of '97
Land Acausitlon            43.42    17.74          22.18    254.41-                      1 7.95  1_   17.95 .     4th grt of '97
.    ...-..  ...   ..     .  *. .   T . n    .
I-:'-'.'"'''"'''''',"''___ ______   ______ _ ________ =            _=____                           - I________
Intercoter 2              12.00    112.00      1200        1200 
mntercmoter 3              27.43   |                        2.25       _                        | .18.18  7 4th art of'96
Interceoter 4      _    1         4385    35.35     I 35.85  38.22 .  .                          7.43   743 a    4th art of 98
IMiscllanscus               4786      4.8       4.78        4.88
Project Total               490.77   324.06    344.57       360.20                a6.82   55.14  861 8      .30S
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 -Jal   t1==



Appendix A
IZSU                                     Page  10 of 16
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                    Annex 2
LAND ACQUISITION
Area to be              Area Expropriated       Status
Expropriated (bee)      Until Nov. 01, 1995
(hec)
|A-WATER
1-Tahtali Dam Reservoir                      1,923                   986                     The remaining 937 hec.
should be expropriated by
DSI by the end of 1997
as the rescrvoir should
reach its maximum level
at that time. DSI needs
519 million to complete
the expropriation.
2-Treatment Plant                            30                      30                       DSI has compicted
3-Roads.                                     65                      65                       DSI has completed
4-Absolute Protection Zone                   583                     0                        IZSU has yet to receive
aouthorization from the
Nlinistry of Interior to
expropriatc. The
expropriation plan for 30
hec has been prepared by
IZSU. For the rest, IZSU
is preparing the
expropriation plan.
IZSU is planning to
complete the
expropriation by the end
of 1997.
IZSU requires S16.6
million.
S-Transmission Line
(Between Tahtali Dam and Karabaglar
Reservoir)
a) Between the dam and treatment plant        (1)                      (1)                    DSI has complcted
33                      33
b) Between the treatment plant and Airport                                                    DSI has completed
c) Between Airport and Bornova-Balcova Road   10                     0                        IZSU has not yet started
Intersection                                                                        .      the expropriation. IZSU
requires S4 million.
d) Between Bomova-Balcova Road Intersection   2                       1                       Izmir Municipality has
and Karbaglar Water Reservoir                                                              prepared the
expropriation plan.
The Municipilaty has
deposited Si million and
it needs additional SI
million.
(land + improvements)
B.WASTE WATER TREATMIENT PLANT    1.482                              1.362                   IZSU requires SI.81
million to expropriate the
remaining 120 hec. This
area not yet expropriated
does not delay the
construction of the plant.



Appendix A
,______________            Page    11   of    16
Are to be              Area Expropriated       Status
Expropriated (hec)     Until Nov. 01, 1l9
C. COLLECTORS
-Bornova Sanayi CoUectors                  0.2                     0.2                     IZSU has completed
-Buyuk Cigli CoUectors                     2                       2                       IZSU has completed
-Karsiyaka Collector                       To be determined by     -                       IZSU has not started yet
izSu
TOTAL                              4.130.2                 2,479.2
(1) Covers 5 a and 5 b
filename/dunybank/land



Appendix A
Page 12 of 16
Annex 2
TURKEY
Izmir Water and Sewerage Project (Loan 2818-TU)
Revenue Contribution to Investment
(US$ Million)
Jan-Sept. 1995
Water Sold (million m3)                                   70.5
Water and Sewerage Bills                                  30.0
Other Services Billed                                      9.1
Total Billing                                             39.1
Cash Collections                                          35.4
Cash Operating Expenses                                   24.2
Operational Surplus/Deficit                               11.2
Tax Sharing                                                2.3
Interest Revenue & Other Income                            4.1
Gross Cash Generation                                     17.6
Debt Service                                              17.7
Net Internal Cash Generation                              -0.1
Capital Expenditures                                      12.9
m:\bg\mur\izmir\anx2amc.icr



Appendix A
Page 13 of 16
Annex 2
TURKEY
Izmir Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Ln. 2818-TU)
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Covenant              Date                   Compliance             Comments
Project Management    Life of the project    C
Unit adequately
staffed (3.01 [b])
Land acquisition      Dec. 1988              C
(3.02 [b])
Controlling industrial   Continuous          C                      A program was
waste discharge (3.04                                               prepared and its
and side letter)                                                    implementation
initiated.
Semi-annual progress   February and August   CP                     The reports on the
reports on the entity's                                             entity's financial
financial status,                                                   status and on project
progress in project                                                 implementation are
implementation (3.05)                                               satisfactory. No
adequate information
is provided on the
management of the
industrial waste
program.
IZSU's audited        June 30 each year      CP                     The auditors have
financial statements                                                repeatedly expressed
(5.01 Ib])                                                          "no opinion" on
IZSU's financial
statements. IZSU is
taking some, although
insufficient measures,
to correct the
deficiencies stated by
the auditors.
Audit of special      June 30 each year      C
account (5.01 [b])



Appendix A
Page 14 of 16
Annex 2
Contribution to       Life of the project    NC                     During January-
investment (5.02 [a])                                               September 1995 there
has not been net
internal cash
generation. The
capital expenditures
has been about
USS13 million. Bank
waived IZSU's lack
of compliance with
this covenant in 1994.
Financial forecast and   May and November    NC                     IZSU has not yet
measures necessary to  each                                        taken actions required
meet financial                                                      to finance its
requirements (5.02                                                  operating
[b] and [c])                                                        expenditures and
investment program
in 1995 and to
comply with the
revenue covenant.
Revaluing its assets    Dec. 1988            C                      IZSU started
(5.03 [a])                                                         revaluing its assets in
1992.
Tariff study (5.03 [b])  June 1988           CP                     The study was carried
out but its
recommendations
have not been
implemented. Tariffs
have been insufficient
to cover IZSU's
financial needs and to
comply with the
revenue covenant.
Plan for settling     Dec. 1987              CP                     The plan was
accounts receivable                                                 submitted but the
and payable with the                                                accounts receivable
Goverment entities                                                  continue at
(5.05)                                                              unacceptable levels
(estimated at 5.2
months- of billing by
the end of September
1995).
Resettlement plan for   Dec. 1987            PC                     The plan was
the Tahtali Reservoir                                               submitted but its
(3.01 of Guarantee                                        .         implementation is
Agreement)                      __                                  behind schedule.



Appendix A
Page 15 of 16
Ainex 2
Inspection of Tahtali   Yearly             C
Dam (3.02)
Debt and investment   Life of the project  NC                    IZSU has carried out
limitation outside the                                           investments and
project (US$2.0                                                  contracted credits for
million a year) (5.04)                                           about US$6.0 million
in 1995 without
proper consultation
with the Bank.
C:  Complied with
CP:   Complied with partially
NC:  Not complied with



Appendix A
Page 16 of 16
Annex 2
TURKEY
Izmir Water SuDDIy and Sewerage Proiect (Ln. 2818-TU)
Key Persons Met
Yakup Basmaci        -      General Director
Sacit Basol          -      Assistant General Director, Technical
Gulay Demircioglu    -      Project Manager
Nazif zkan           -      Department Head, Finance and Accounting
M:
Hikmet Ozgobek       -      Regional Director, Izmir
Enver Caglayan       -      Deputy Regional Director, Izmir
Musa Erdem           -      Engineer
KCHGM:
Unal Oguz            -      Manager, Resettlement
Zeki Erdem           -      Manager, Projects and Implementation
Sami Tecimer         -      Engineer
Ali Kececi           -      Engineer
ILLER BANKASI:
Sevil Ok             -      Regional Director
BLACK AND VEATCH:
Tim Tougas           -      Project Manager
m:si~



Appendix B
Page 1 of 7
PROJECT EXECUTION
EVALUATION
REPORT
TU RKiYE
iZMiR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT
LOAN NO:2818-TU
JANUARY 1996



Appendix B
Page 2 of 7
PROJECT EXECUTION EVALUATION REPORT
TU RKIYE
iZMiR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN NO: 2818-TU
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Izmir Water
Supply and Sewerage Project in Turkiye, for which loan in the amount of
USS 184 million equivalent was approved on 28 January 1986 and Loan
Agreement was signed on 12 June 1987.
The Loan was closed on 31 December 1 995.Final disbursement took place
on .                  at which time an amount of 1,USS68,000,000 was
cancelled.Cofinancing for the project was provided by izmir Metropolitan
Municipality, Iller Bankasi and DSI(State Water Works Organization).
(1 )          The sewerage works not yet contracted were draped from the project and their total amount of
USS 8.000,000, was cancelled from the undisbursed amount of L^an on 13 December 1994.



Appendix B
A.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                         Page 3 of 7
At the end of implementation the progress in the relevant parts are:
1.    Tahtali Oam which is totally financed by local fundsis contracted in Oecember 1989
and is close to completion and the impoundment is scheduled to take place at the
end of 1995.The investment to be made after the loan closing date amounts to about
USS14 million to be financed by oSi and the progress will be 98%.1t is scheduled to
be completed in July 1996.
The population in the Tahtali Dam lake area is subject to the resettlement.The
construction of houses for 286 families which have requested resettlement in rural
areas has a physical advance about 50% since its initiation two years ago(October
1993).7he construction of houses for 35 families in urban areas has yet to be
tendered.The investment to be made in the rural area after the closing date amounts
to USS1 million.lt is financed by KHGM and is scheduled to be completed in August
1996.
2.    Tahtali System of an intake, water treatment plant and pump station is contracted in
January 1993 and well advanced.90 % of the equipment purchase is scheduled to be
delivered and 40% progress will be achieved at the end of 1995.the investment to be
made after the closing date amounts to about USS23 million including USSI million
of consultant fees, to be financed by DSi.lt is scheduled to be completed March
1997.
The water transmission main is contracted in December 1992 and has a physical
progress of about 52%, and all the required materials are scheduled to be in stock by
the end of 1995.The investments in civil works to be made after the loan closing
date amounts to about USS7 million, to be financed by OSI.lt is scheduled to be
completed in September 1996.
3.    The installation of primary mains of 320 km length, 300 mm to 1,000 mm diameter
which is financed by local funds is contracted in January 1987 and the work is
completed in December 1995.
The installation of secondary mains of 800 km length, 100 mm to 200 mm diameter
which is financed by local funds is contracted in January 1987 and the work is
completed in December 1995.
Civil work for 23 water pumping stations which is financed by local funds and the
equipments for this project which iscontracted by ICB are contracted in September
1987 and December 1990 respectively and both are compieted in Oecember 1995.
The installation of distribution reservoir of 1 79.000 mJ which is financed by local
funds is contracted in August 1987 and the work is completed in December 1995.
4.    The civil works for system rehabilitation (77 km of distribution main) which is
financed by local funds is contracted in January 1987 and the work is completed in
December 1 995.
Purchasing of 50,000 customer meter which is financed by local funds is contracted
in December 1989 and the work is completed in September 1994.
5.    The first contract for the installation of 200.000 new metered water connections is
signed in January 1987 and the whole work is completed in Oecember 1995.
PART B: Sewace Collection and Treatment
1.    Interceptor section 1 (5.0 km length; 3.0 m and 3,5 m diameter) is contracted in April
1983 by iller Bank.Since the contractor died during the project stage. the contract
has been terminated.Because of the place of the treatment is changed as a result of
Project revisions made by iZSU, it is not required the tendering once again of this
part of interceptor.
2.    Interceptor Section 2 (4,430 m length; 3,6 m diameter tunnel) which amounts to
USS1Z million is contracted in August 1983 and the work is completed in March
1990



Interceptor Section 3 (5.668 m length; 2.4 m and 2.2 m diameter) is contracted in
July 1983. The investments to be made after the loan closing date amounts to about
USS1.18 million, to be financed by Iller Bank The progress is 87% it is scheduled to
be completed in December 1997.
Interceptor Section 4 (9,217 m length; 1.4 m , 2.2 m and N390 diameter) is
contracted in September 1983. The investments to be made after the loan closing
date amounts to about USS7.43 million, to be financed by Iller Bank.The progress is
88% and it is scheduled to be completed in December 1997.
3.    The preloading ( USS1.7 millon) and the equipment purchase regarding the
preloading ( USSO.1 millon) which is financed by loan are contracted in June 1992
and August 1992 and are completed in December 1992 and December
1991 respetively.The waste water treatment plant has not been tendered yet.
4.    The construction of two pumping stations, Cioli and Kar,iyaka which is financed by
the loan is well advanced and they are expected to be completed in September 1996
and September 1997 respectively.The investment to be made after the loan closing
date is USS4.20 millon for r,ili and Uss5.06 millon for Kar;iyaka whereas the
progress are 74% and 50% respectively.Bayrakii (USS 7 million) and GQmr0k
(USS5.5 million)Pump Stations which will be financed by local funds are contracted
in December 1995 and both are excpected to be completed in November 1997.
Kar;iyaka Collectors(USS11.2 million) is contracted in October 1993 where 10%
progressis reached and the contract is terminated in June 1995 due to the
Contractor's default and has not been tendered yet.
5.    Construction of 89 km of collectors (1.0-2.5 m diameter) which is financed by local
funds is contracted in June 1993 and expected to be completed in January 1996.
.6.    The first contract for the construction of 431 km of secondary and tertiary
collectors(t.2-0.8 m diameter) which is financed by local funds is signed in
September 1987 and whole of the work is completed in December 1995.
7.    The first contract for the rehabilitation or replacement of 77 km of secondary and
tertiary sewers which is financed by local funds is signed in September 1987 and
whole of the work is completed in December 1995.
8.    The first contract for 300,000 sewerage connections (using appropriate technologies
for low income areas) which is financed by local funds is signed in August 1987 and
whole of the work is completed in December 1995.
9.    The engineering for sewerage components of the project which is procured by
Guidelines method is contracted in December 1987 and the contract will be
terminated by the end of December 1995 due to the loan closing.New engineering
services will be financed by local funds and will be contracted in the beginning of
1 99s.
PART C: Institutional Imorovement of IZSU
1.    For unaccounted for water control a responsible department is established and this
department is monitoring and determining the physical unaccounted for water.
Industrial waste management is carried out according to the related internal
regulations prepared by IZSU and approved by Municipality councill in 1988.
To prevent the pollution in Tahtali dam protection zone a Protection Regulation is
prepared and is active since 1992.
The services for institutional strengthening is contracted in February 1994 and the
first part is completed in May 1 995.Because of this first part is not well advanced
and found, unsatisfactory, the second part is not contracted.
2.    Training in the operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under the project
is not done because the constructions under the sewerage project are not completed



pleldx   B
3.    For the use of the unaccounted for water department for the purpose of detection
and repair of leaks IZSU purchased flowmeters. correlators and logger.
B.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The scope of the project have been required not to be determined that much big and
the investment plan exceeded the IZSU's financial capasity.Also, iZSU could not
arrange the tariff levels accordigly so that the income remained under the
investment cost.
Due to both the staffing problem (IZSU could not satisfy to establish a good
organization with skillful staff in PMU) and the unready project drawings, a long time
has elapsed between the loan agreement and project implementation period.
World Bank monitoring procedures were such strong that IZSU was not free enough
for deciding.
Institutional Strengtening project failed because IZSU could not nominate the
counterpart staff.
iZSU and World Bank could not decide for the Waste Water Treatment Plant for a
long time.
The project entities DSI and Iller Bank together with KHGM have important financial
difficulties because their budget is allocated by the Treasury.
The World Bank contribution in the financing of the project was not enough beside
IZSU's financial difficulties.
C.    PERFORMANCE ON THE PROJECT
1.    Performance of IZSU
iZSU created the necessity for restructuring because of the financial difficulties..
Inspite of financial difficulties and the effects of municipal elections. enough
importance has been given to the procedures and studies before the implemantation
period and IZSU has paid USS1 00 million for the project from the beginning.
By the end of 1995, it is possible to say that IZSU has an active Project Oepartment
supported by the qualified staff which was required at the beginning of the project.
2.    Pertormance of DSi
The construction of the different elements of the Water Supply Project has
progressed at a relatively even pace.The land expropriation have lagged behind due
to the financial difficulties from government.In spite of the serlous financial problems
OSI has spent USS90 million from the beginning of the project.
3.    Performance of ILLER BANK
The,rnstruction of the main interceptors is well advanced (14 out of 19 km).Iller
Bank has spent USS80 million for the project from the beginning.
4.    Performance of KHGM
The resettlement of the displaced population in the Tahtahi Dam late area have
lagged behind and is likely to result in further delays in the commissioning of the
Tahtali Water Supply System.The main cause of this delay is the financial
difficulties from government.
5.    Performance of WORLD BANK
The scope of the project should have been required not to be determined that much
big.



Page 670oF:7T
Involvement of IZSU in the project preparation period should have been definitely
secured taking into account that an establisment of IZSU was new and in the project
preparation period iZSU can not be productive enough.
Due to the World Bank's too close monitoring procedures, iZSU was forced and
districted opn deciding.
Staffing of PMU having the task of coordination in suitable quality, quantity, time
and location should have been conssdered according to the condition to be realized
in order to implement the project.
D.    KEY LESSONS
It appears that project is not satisfactory since it was deviated from the original
project objectives due to restructuring. The scope of the project should have been
required not to be determined that much big and tne investment plan exceeded the
iZSU's financial capasity.lnstead, a step-vise construction programme should have
been applied.
Since the original project was not implemented, it is not possible to asses the project
benefits as planned at the beginning, therefore no data were obtained to be used for
working on future operation.
Problems faced in stuffing should have been anticipated and measures had to be
taken by Treasury in the name of Borrower at least at the beginning of the project.
The contribution of World Bank to the construction parts of the project should be at
least 50%.
The tariff levels adjusted by IZSU and approved by Municipality councill shoul be
arranged in such a way that the income should be enough for the project
investments.The related law that IZSU was established according to, should be
revised.iZSU should arrange the studies by taking the audit reports into account.At
the end of the non-return period of the present loan, after ensuring the institutional
improvement, IZSU should apply to the Bank for the cancellation of the remaining
part of present loan and alowance for the new loan.The ways should have been
searched by the project executer to work jointly with the project entities.
F.    PLAN AND TIMETABLE FOR COMPLETION OF PROJECT
Above project history shows that some major parts of the waste water sewerage
system have already been constructed.The construction of the box culvert, force
rain, Kar;iyaka collectors and waste water tr^atmen:t plant are a top priority for
Izmir Bay continues to deteriorate dramatically.
Since the World Bank facility for funding 35% of the project expired on 31 December
1995, IZSU management has decided to complete the remainin components of the
waste water collection system, pumping stations and waste water treatment using
internal financing supplemented by external funding for individual portions of the
work by international loan agencies.
If iZSU faces difficulties in financing the whole project, to get the greatest impact for
the available money, iZSU intends to divide the complete waste water project into
three construction phases, each lasting roughly three years.
Phase I will consentrate on building the interceptors, major pump stations and
treatment facilities needed to quickly intercept and treat the bulk of the raw sewage
now flowing into Izmir Bay.
Phase II will consentrate on building the neighborhood collectors and minor pump
stations to complete a modern sewerage system for the entire city.



Appendtlx B
Page T7 o 
Phase IlIl will expand the transmission and treatment capacity to accommodate
population and water consumption growth until the year 2020.
The Works Remainino to be Bid under the orolect are
Component                             Budaet(US S Million]
Bayrakli Pump Station                               10.00
(The contract was signed on December 19,1995)
GdimrQk Pump Station                                 5.80
(Bids were submitted on December,20 1995)
Force Main & Box Culvert(lst part)                   8.70
Kar*iyaka and Alaybey Collectors                     5.00
Alsancak Collectors                                  1.70
Waste Water Treatment Plant,Part l(Civil)           77.00
Waste Water Treatment Plant,Part l(Equipment)        9.20
Diversion Wiers and River Inlet Structures          12.00
Upper West Collectors                                3.59
Balova Collectors                                   1.10
Bornova Collectors                                  18.50
Lower Melez Collectors                              29.23
Upper Melez Collectors                              11.20
Tunnel Linning(Civil)                                2.00
Piyale & $ehitler Collectors                        10.80
Tunnel Lining(Equipment)                             2.00
Waste Water Treatment Plant,Part II(Civil)          50.00
Waste Water Treatment Plant,Part I l(Equipment)     15.40
Lower West Collectors                                9.30
Abdullahaoa Pump Station                            14.24
GQzelbahce Pump Station                             11.37
Elrefpala Collectors                                1 40
Sewer Street Network Construction&Entegration      3.
All components of the project except Diversion Wier Inlet Structures, Southwest
Interceptor and Salgova Collector already have final designs available.The two latter
components have conseptual designs available.
IZSU will need a total of USS 126 million to implement the Phase I plan and USS
350 million to implement the overall project over the next four years.
The enviosed Map indlcates the present situation after implementation and Table SA
and SB shows the Contract Procurement and project implementation schedules
respectively.



izsu                            Appendix C
IZMNdR WATER AND SEWERAGE ADMlNISTRAnON   Page 1 of 2
GENERAL DIRECTORPTE
DATE               :
NNUIMBER     .~O
MNr. Ricardo Halperin
Chief, Infrastructure and Environmental Division
Countrv Departm-ent I
'Europe and Central Asia Region
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
Ref Izrnir Water SuFglv and Sewerage Project(Loan 2818-TU)
Dear NInHalperin;
The draft Implementadon Completion Report for the referenced project have been
reviewed and the following comments were made:
Factors affecting the achievement of the proiect objectives
Para. 15;
The scope of the project was very larze at the begnning.Therefore the achievement of
the project delaved 4 years until restructuring and thus the grace peniod which was
very important in loan agreements was elapsed without a considerable proeress.
World Bank did not extend the grace period.Therefore, t7ZSU had to both ensure the
repayments and allocate enough budget for the investments.
The Bank insisted on the lagoon type WWTP which requires a large area.For this
purpose, an area of approximately 1500 ha had to be expropriated.Imnplementation of
the expropriation took a long time due to the tedious procedures diccated bv the
related laws.This also caused the delay in the project implementation.
Para. 17;
Although IZSU-'s Board and top management were changed in response to changes in
political circumstances, the Project Management Unit remained unchangedfor the
period of 1987-94 and the decisions of PMU have been applied bv the upper
manazement during that period.There were no complains from WB about these
decisions.Frequent changes in the management of PivfU happened in a short period in
1994, only.
Para. 1 8;
It is correct that the first municipal administration involved in the project. which was
the one negotiating the loan with the Bank, lost the elections in Mlarch 1989.However,
it took about two years after the loan agreement to prepare the dra%%ings and update
the MNaster Plan before starting the construction implementation.The scope of the
project in the beginning had been determined too larwe and financial contribution to
the project was very high for IZZSU as a young instirution and these caused further



delays in the project implementation although tZSU assigned high priority to the  Rpendi  C
project from the beginning.                                                 P
The third administration started to look for new financial sources which resulted the
BOT model.
But the fourth administration concentrated to reNise and speed up the project.
Para.20;
In accordance with the loan agreement, IZSU had an expertized consultant (BVI) who
was responsible for the preparation of the project on behalf of IZSU.Before the end of
1989 all the tender documents and drawings related to the first phase components
were completed.So, iZSU was satisfactorv in the project preparation.
Para. 21;
tZSU's financial contribution to the project is more than twice of DSI budget and
three times greater than ller Bank budget.Therefore, IZSU's performance in the
project implementation seems better than these institutions.
Para.22;
The twinning arrangement failed since a foreign water company could not adopt itself
to the procedures and institutional operations of IZSU which depend on several
turkish laws.Therefore, tZSU's new management preferred to cancel chis contract and
make a new arrangement with the university professors who are aware of the
institutional structure in Turldye as well as the technical requirements of IZSU.
Para.24;
tZSUL implemented the agreed tariff adjustments until 1994.But, since the financial
contribution of tZSIU was very high compared to that of the Bank, the revenue from
water sales was not enough anymore to finance the project satisfactorily.
Some other misakes have been marked in the enclosed draft Implementation
Completion Report.
Best Regards
General Manazer
cc:   Ms.$en .AKLAN
Departnent Head,World Bank Project Dept.
Treasury
Mr.F.TEMLE
World Bank.Ankara,Thrkiye
-.-//07/1996/Krd.Fns.!Ld./D.GfJREL  -
;'071 '996/Prj.Dai.B4k./G.DE1tRCIOG6LIU  d,/



AppendLix D
Page 1 of 6
-xr WoRL2 IA ,4/rTgXRNATZONAL rtZAmCZ CONPORAT:Off
O F F I C E M E M O R A N D U M
DATE:  .'arch 10, 1S87
TO:  Xr. Peter Ware, Chief, DIPWS
FROM:  Per Ljung, Chief, ESPUR
EM   3-2952
RE:  TURKEY - Izzi: Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Comments on the Yellow Cover SAR Dated Februarv 24, 1987
lutroduction
1.       Turkish ci:ies suffer from major service deficiencies and the
organizations resczsi-ble for remedying this situation are itherently weak.
As noted in our Cukurova SAPR, both LMPUR and LM2WS subscribe zo the same basic
objectives in cur letding:
",.. to assisz the Government in its decentralizatica
policy and help build up the capabilities of m=a cioalities
and thei- subsidiary organizations such as ISKI. A: the
same time, the lending operations are designed zo extend
the coverage of basic municipal services and to stre=gthen
resource mcbilization at the local level to ensure
replicability and improved self-financing."
2.       3ecause our activities in Turkey are so closely rela:ed, we in EMPUk
bave with iaterest fol Lowed the preparation of the proposed Izmir project.
Wben we reviewed the Yellow Cover, a number of questions-_spec.aly related
to the financial aspects of the project-came to our minds. During the Yellow
Cover Review Meeting yesterday,-.the appraisal team provided well articulated
ansvers to many of these questions.  However, it was agreed that the
analytical basis for many of the assumptions and projections should be spelled
out more clearly in the SAR.  To help you in the rewriting job, we will
briefly present our comnentsl' on the Yellow cover; they rela:e to:
ti) the replicability of projects of this type;
(ii) the realism of water consumption projections;
(iii) the scheduling of source works;
1/ Some editorial observations are in the Attachments.



Appendix D
Pase 2 of 6
(iv) the viability of the financing plan; and
(v) the affordability of the proposed investment to the mu-icipality and
project benleficiaries.
Reolica6ility
3.       The proposed water and sanitation investments amount to US$490.7
million in January 1987 prices.  With a present population of 1.7 million in
the Izmir metropolitan area, this works out to an investment of roughly US$290
per capita. L'  If "Iz=ir type" investments were to be carried out in all
Turkish cities, the total investment requirements would be in the order of
US$7,900 million or about US$1,000 million per year. We are aware that Izmir
faces some special environmental problems that lead to costly solutions.
However, it appears that greater emphasis could have been given to least cost
solutions and appropriate phasing of the investments to ensure that the Izmir
Project represented a model that could be replicated in other urban areas
within a reasonable timeframe and within likely macro-economic resource
constraints.
Realism of Water Coasumation Projections
4.       The table below summarizes some of the key demand indicators
presented in the SAR:
1985        li99        Growth Rate
(Z)
Total Population (M)                            1.54         2.36            4.9
Population Served 01)                           1.22         2.10            6.2
Domestic Water Sales (Mm)                      41.7        114.8            11.9
Coinercial etc. Water Sales (.M3)               8.5         3h.3            16.8
Total Water Sales (M32)                        50.2        145.l1           12.9
Dmestic Use (l1c/d)                            94          150               5.3
overall Per Capita Use (l/c/d)                113          195               6.2
Average Tariff (T-LI3)                        183          343               7.3
5.       The SAR makes the points that demand is depressed at present and that
sales in 1985 were below "normal."1'  Still, per caoita domestic
1/ The corresponding investment in the five Cukurova cities is about US$100
per capita.  This relatively low cost is due to careful demand projections
and scheduling of source works, extensive efforts to fnad least cost
solutions and appropriate sizing of networks.
2Z The average sales during the 1980-83 period were 124 l/c/d versus
113 l/c/d in 1985.



Appendix D
Page 3 of 6
consumptiorL' is projected to increase by more than 50 percent al:hough the
average tai-ff would almost double between 1985 and 1994. Given typical
income and price elasticities, we would expect that real per capita domestic
demand would decll-e somewhat. The reason for this is that the projected
price iqcrease (7.3 percent p.a.) is much greater than the likely growth in
per cap'ta incomes (about 3 percent p.a.).  Assuming rhat supply constraints
reduce present dezz.ad by about 20 percent,'' it seems unlikely that total
domestic water ue would exceed 92 Mm in 1994. If per capita domestic use
remains at presently level, the total sales in 1994 would be only about
72 MmM.
6.       Commercial, industrial, and other uses -  assuming a zero price
elasticity - can reasonably be expected to grow at a rate somwewhere between
that of Zzwir's population (4.9 percent p.a.) and value added (about 8 percent
p.a.). Using an average growth rate of 6.5 percent p.a., the 1994 commercial
etc. sales would amcunt to about 15 Mm3. Even taking into account potential
growth that might come from industries presently using their own wells, it
seems unlikely that total commercial etc. sales would exceed 23 Mm= in 1994.
7.       Thus, total sales carn be expected to range between 87 Mm" and
115 Mm3 compared to a SAR projection of 149 Mm'.  This clearly has major
implicatiOns for the financial viability of the invesmet-.s, the riig of
additional source develooment, and the sizing of water and sewerage networks.
Schedulirnz oz Source Works
8.       Accordin.g to the demand projections in the SAR, water from the
Tahtali Dam would be recuired in 1991 and the dam's full capacity would be
utilized in 2004. According to revised projections presented above, it is not
likely that the Tah:ali Dam would be required before the turn of the century
and its full capacity probably would not be needed un:il after 2010. Thus, it
would appear ttat construction of Tahtaii is premature and that projec. costs
could be reduced by USS38.0 million.  Even if the Governmez: wazts to go ahead
with th_s cocqcea: for political reasons, it seems inapprooriate to use US$26
million of World Back funds for this purpose, especially given our concern
over the recent growth in public investments.
Viabilitv of the Financing Plan
9.       About US$77 million of funding is assumed to come from Iller Bank.
The SAR states: "It has been assumed that the Iller Bank funds will be
TL-denominated grants drawn from the Municipality's current and future
entitlements to recuras of Central Government tax revenue and that any funds
needed to be drawn as advances would be provided iaterest free."  (Izmir SAR
para. 6.08).
1/ The domestic sales in Izmir in 1985 (94 l/c/d) are alnost identical to the
figures for Ada-a (95 l/c/d).
2/  This -s, for example, consistent with an assu=ncion that 40 percent of the
households cotsume only two-thirds of the water they would consume under
unconstrained suoply conditions.



Appendix D
Page 4 of 6
10.      At present, Iller Bank provides funds to runicipali:ies in three
different ways: (i) regular I3 loans which are repaid over 1-5-2  years and
carry a 16 percent interest rate; (ii) advances and short-ter= 13 loans which
have various maturities ard interest rates that range' between 15 and 70
percent;, (iii) Municipal Fud loans that have maturities of u? to 30 years and
are interest free (see Cukurova SAR para. 1.19).  Izmir, as a metropolitan
area, is ineligible for  inicipal Fund Loans.  Thus, the most likely form of
Iller Bank contribution is a regular loan with a maturity of about 20 years
and an interest rate of 16 oercent. Any advances from Iller 3ank are likely
to be onr even tougher terms.
11.       If it is assumed that the US$77 million would come from one of the
Government's revenue-sharing programs, this would not be an Iller Bank
contribution but a contribution from the municipality (see Cukuova SAR para.
1.18). If that is the case, the municipal contribution would increase to
US$219.2 milliot.  It seems unlikely that the municipality can afford such a
large amount (see para. 13 below).
12.      We also cote that US$45.7 million would come from still unindentified
sources.  Furthermore, as presented in the SAR, IZSU's external fi ancing
would come on rather soct terms which might have encouraged an u-cecessarily
costly project design.
Affordabilitv of the Pro ect
13.      According to the financing plan, the municipality is expected to
contribute about US$142 million if the projected internal cash generation in
IZSU materializes.  -awever, as noted above, the real contribution appears to
be U-St219 million.  The availability of municipal resources has not been
analyzed but it is stated that the municioality would allocate about one third
of i-s investment budget to the project.  Adjusting for the "'issing" US$77
million, this would bring the total up to about half of the mu-icipal
investment budget. Based or. our knowledge about municipal finance in Turkey,
a  =-'civall cortrib :-'  o  t .is mag-aitude appears unrealistic.
14.      The financing plan is even more worrysome because of the apparent
overstatement of water sales.  If there is a shortfall in sales of the
magnitude indicated in para. 7 above (i.e., 34-62 .m3), the revenues would
be between rL 11.7 billion and TL 21.4 billion lower in 1994 (exMressed in
1987 prices) with serious imolications for IZSU's ability to generate cash to
finance part of the investments.  Alternatively, the tariff would have to be
raised to between r  450/m3 and TL 590 m3.  That would imply a tariff
increase between 1987 and 1994 of between 140 percent and Z20 percent.  The
affordabil'ity analysis in the Izmir SAR (paras. 7.08-7.09) seems to indicate
that tariffs of this magnitude would not be affordable to most families.  This
implies that the municioal contribution to IZSU would have to be increased
further, which seems unrealistic.
Conclusicas
15.      The Izmir Water Supply and Sewerage 'roject appears to be more costly
than what the Turkish economy, the Izmir municipality, and the proiect
benefi;acaries can afford. The financing plan appears to be based on



Appendix D
Page 5 of 6
ootimistic assumptions about growth in demand, tariffs, and availability of
domestic f i-ace. Some major project elements also appear to be implemented
prematurely. Furtheremore, it is not clear that the sixteen-year old master
plan for water and sewerage (although updated subsequently) responds
adequately to the highly dynamic urban growth in the Izmir area. It might
have been appropriate to establish under the project some kind of planning
mechai4sm that would ensure a reasonable coordination vith other urban
development efforts.
cc: Messrs. Rajagopalan, Dewey (EMPDR), Bowron, MacEwen, Ms. 3romhead
(EMPWS), Mitchell (o/r), Assimakopoulos (EMPUR).
PLuadc



Appendix D
Page 6 of 6
Editorial Comments on Izmir SAR
1.  According to the oreliminary census figures the population of Turkey was
51.4 m-llion in 1985 (para. 2.01).
2.  The common deflaition of urban areas is "cities and towns with more than
10,000 people". According to this definition the urban popula:ion was
25.2 million or 49Z of the total in 1985 (para. 2.01).
3. As far as we understand, starting in 1987 DSI will only work in cities
with more than 500,000 people (para. 2.06).
4.  Should we me=t:c. Dlanned sector work in a doc-uent that goes to the
Board (para. 2.09).
5.  The Cuk-_rova Urban Development Project should be mentioned in para. 2.11.
6.  Since the insticutional arrangements for the smaller Cukuarova cities were
set-up with VLWS, we assume that the WSD isletmes should be mentioned as
a viable ootion for medium sized cities (para. 2.13).
7. The efforts to strengthen Iller Bank - as a financial intermediary -
under the Cukuro-va Project should be mentioned (para. 2.13).
8.  The reader gets the impression (in Chapter 3) that IZSU exists in reality
not only on oaDer.
9. Price contingencies not mentioned in para. 5.17.
10. Figures on dcmestic inflation rate in Annex 5 do not correspond to actual
1986 exzerience or to present or earlier projections by Programs.
11.  There is no analysis of the acceptability of LC3 procurement methods and
neeted changes in Law 2886 (para. 5.33).
12. The possibility of re-using effluent for agriculture at some undefined
time in the future and after some additional investments should not be
presented as a benefit (para. 7.05).
13.  It appears that it would be most appropriate to use the marginal tariff
that each consu=er group face as the measure of project benefits.



I



MAP SECTION






76-T0                                  ATYPR                                  2TIS                                                                                                                                                           DYTD                                  7XTYS             lRI   28054
38-.0                                                                                                 38'-0                                         T U  R K  E Y                                            W311Xo
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                          IZMIR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                              SEWERAGE SYSTEM
IZMIR METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY                                               I-7leT
-ed L  ->F   -                                              IMPLEMENTATION  STATUS
.E.E.E. .US             ~~WATER PROA  GOKSU WELLS                                            RIMES AND CREEKS
MEXATMEN WEUS            _           ASD !LARI       G
EXISTING,  - - - -  (EXASETNO)                                          B~~~~- -- -  OUNDARY OF LRETROP0LITAN MUNICIPALITY
,  ,-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-~~~~~~~~~~~  EARI,L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
-  CUMHUEMET RESERVOIR                          2720U                                  2 518
SRS30                                                                            IE)OSTING)
say"z"; h;xE_E                                                                           :;   o^_ss s
izm,~~~  Bay  I"  ~~~~~s                 - -        -  W~~~ATER    E55o   PR
_V2                                 LACV                I         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
CAYAA,               UTR       PROEC      XSTIN  ......ER. ROJEC  ....TC          RAW WATER TRANSMRISSION MAIN_
TAN TA LI   _#         '       - -                               - --- -     ~            ~ T~~REATED WATER TRANSMISSION MAINS 
WATER ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ HLKMA  WEU^MEN
PLANT                                    -         -                                      PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION TATINS
IPROJECTJ                                 a O                                     0        DISTRIRUTION REARRYGIRS                                                                    OJE 
ORIGINALE T                                  o 22    UMTPING STATIONS                                                             CLOSET 1OYET
.                 Y          *              i~U                    WATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                                    T.OMFTnON;     IZSTA U               D
C                E                    WELL FIELDS                                                              WORD    BANE AND       WORLD UANDER
FUTURE    PRQECT   EXISM0,    Lll ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~FUUR                                  BNE MUICIALTY          RAR0MLRrACTT
........                                        INT.ER                                                                                                                    INTERCEPTORS ,OPEN cAn
TA .AU                r--- -     - -- -TR RESERVOIRS AND DAMS    IO                                                                                                                                INTERCEPTORS TUNNEL
_AT~R T.  2 E.T                              -                            -  COLAAARI DISTRIBUTION   INL ORS
z  IUMPING STATIONS                                                  CLOSE TO                NOTPUPING SATION
.7 DV                                2AOCW SR                                               TREATMENT PEANT SITE
.93-}Q  qT J   <   /  38Q10-           WELL/ ,ED         FEDfiABON                                                     AIDA  i                                 PROJECTNASESTRUCTUREDIN 172
_L                                                                           ROMANUL DAMRUDD REYDLANR  J 1.   T U R K E r          j       CS                                               .-B
A       46,                    INTAKE                                                                                                                   INTERCEPTORS (OPENEDERAiONCUI1
, ~ ~ ~      ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       BLAI -uda a=--It ns 5 CPU           R8tP3I       RO\(.0z     9~=_
2CX   .   2ORE'  ,  Erlo  30  Y         40W   /                                2?QO                                    7PlG                                     27 20         .,/N   CT  ,W
/  TANEAA  ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                        A.AAS.    .L.TAEOIS AD  A.
IRROIRCT                                                                                                                                                              "'ALA  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~."AL ~~~~~COLCTt
27-0                  2:50REPT E TA P ANT A SITE                                                                                                                     ..
IRANERATION'A,   - - Ar
B"GARIA ~ ~      ~     ~     YRA                '-.n'                                                                                                                 aA
D- A.OJRESEr'O-R                                        T U R K E Y~~~~~~I   RAQT,,,I
3     CYPRUS    LARA  RTPRI ~27YT00.                                                                  ATYIL                                   27YD
2E'50A                                 27'RE                                   27'10                                                   2A0'L












