Report No. PIC4767
Project Name                    Argentina-Maternal and Child Health and (@+)
Nutrition II (PROMIN II)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       ARPE6059
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health
Date this PID Prepared           February, 1997
Appraisal Date                   February 12, 1997
Expected Board Date              May 15, 1997
1. Country and Sector Background In many respects, Argentina
already possesses a highly developed health system, particularly by
developing country standards. The country has one of the highest
doctor-to-population ratios in Latin America (nearly three doctors
per thousand inhabitants), while the number of hospital beds (4.5
per thousand inhabitants) is similar to that of many OECD
countries. As in most middle-income countries, Argentina shows two
coexisting epidemiological profiles: (i) a high incidence of non-
communicable and degenerative diseases (including cardiovascular
diseases, cancer, and diabetes), and a rapid increase in accidents,
corresponding to the profile of industrial countries; and (ii), a
high incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases, reflecting
conditions usually prevailing in developing countries.
Despite its achievements, the health system still faces
significant problems. The infant mortality rate (IMR) of 22 per
1000 live births is higher than in Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, and
Uruguay which have lower per-capita incomes and spend less on
health. There are major variations in the IMR across regions: the
IMR is 1.1-1.3 times higher in the large, poor, periurban areas
than the national average. Three-fourths of neonatal deaths and 60
percent of post-neonatal deaths are concentrated among the poor.
Neonatal deaths result from poor-quality obstetric care and
maternal undernutrition. Post-neonatal deaths are caused by
immunopreventable and acute respiratory diseases. They could be
prevented through opportune health care interventions and better
nutrition. The same applies to mortality for children aged 1-4 and
maternal mortality, where two-thirds of deaths could be prevented
by opportune, good quality care. At present, prenatal care coverage
remains low.
Health care has deteriorated over the last two decades. With
the exception of incipient progress in the areas covered by PROMIN
I (Loan 3643-AR), public services are overburdened and poorly
equipped to handle the volume of demand, especially in the poor
provinces of the North and Northwest, and in densely populated
periurban areas. In some areas, there is increasing pressure on
health services resulting from immigrants in provinces bordering



Paraguay, Bolivia, and Chile. Lack of priorities, operating
standards, incentives, and accountability affect most provincial
services. Poorly trained and utilized health personnel are major
causes of inefficiency. As a result of economic recession and
unemployment, many families have lost their social benefits and
have to be assisted by the public sector. Mothers and children have
suffered the effects of the economic crisis more than other members
of poor households. This is because: (i) poor households contain on
average more than twice as many children as other households; and
(ii) undernourishment tends to affect mothers and children
disproportionately.
The number of pre-school-age children with unsatisfied basic needs
(related to housing, hygiene, access to safe water, and health
care) is estimated at 1.5 million. Of these, about one-third
receive nutrition supplementation through provincial and municipal
kindergartens, mothers' clubs, and other public and private
channels. Even this limited assistance is often not well planned or
supervised. The widely differing organizational arrangements and
jurisdictions responsible for this age group in provinces and
municipalities, together with small private sector participation,
hinder efforts to rationalize and expand services. With the
exception of those who have started to be covered by PROMIN I, very
few preschoolers from poor families receive psycho-social
stimulation. This makes entry in schools more difficult and
increases the rates of repetition and dropouts.
As described in its policy letter of March 26, 1996 (linked
to the Health Insurance Reform project), the Government's general
objectives for the health sector are to: (i) ensure full exercise
of the population's right to health care; (ii) improve the
accessibility, efficiency and quality of medical attention; (iii)
reduce avoidable morbidity and mortality risks; (iv) rethink and
redirect the role of the State in the health sector.
To reach those objectives, the following sector strategies
have been defined: (i) give priority to mother and infant care;
(ii) modernize the public hospital system; and (iii) improve the
financing of the system.
Nutrition Issues. Information about nutrition status in Argentina
is not up to date. The MOH has estimated that, by the mid-1990s, 25
percent of children under 5 years of age were below the tenth
percentile in terms of height-for-age. A household survey performed
by the National Institute for Statistics and Census (INDEC) during
1995 shows that in the Greater Buenos Aires area 17 percent of
children of poor households were below the tenth percentile in
terms of height-for-age. In the early 1990s, a small sample survey
of pregnant women in a poor area of the province of Buenos Aires
indicated that in the first and second trimesters of pregnancy
about 20 percent of the women were underweight, and at the third
trimester about 30 percent, according to weight/height criteria.
Under PROMIN I, a National Nutrition Survey will be undertaken. The
survey is currently being bid and the contract is expected to be
signed in February 1997. Field work would be completed in June 1998
- 2 -



and preliminary results would then be available.
In 1995, the Government created a Central Unit to Analyze and
Plan Food and Nutrition Policies (UCAPPAN) within the Secretariat
of Social Development (SDS). This institution is receiving
technical assistance from IDB.
There are currently nine nutrition programs costing US$332
million per year(see 1/) . Two of these programs (Milk for pregnant women
and malnourished infants - "Dacion de Leche"; and PROMIN) come
under the MOH. The seven other programs depend on SDS and are by
far the largest, representing 90 percent of total funds. These
programs do cover the most vulnerable groups in Argentina: pregnant
and lactating women, infants, and young children, and the elderly.
They are implemented in a decentralized way in the provinces and
food is purchased locally. However, they do face significant
implementation problems: (i) there is a lack of clear targeting
criteria; (ii) there is an absence of monitoring indicators and
program evaluation; and (iii) there is a lack of regularity in the
transfer of funds to the provinces.
2. Project Objectives The project would help extend the coverage of
the PROMIN program. The project would help the Government: (i)
increase coverage of maternal and prenatal care services; (ii)
improve pediatric coverage of children aged 0-6; (iii) increase
coverage of early childhood development programs and; (iv)
decentralize and strengthen social service management.
3. Project Description The project, whose total cost is estimated
at US$171 million, would be implemented over a five-year period
starting in 1997 and would have three components. The Bank would
finance activities in each component, as would the IDB and the
provinces and municipalities. These components include: (a)
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition. This component would cover
(i) women's reproductive and child health care; (ii) food
supplementation for undernourished pregnant women and children
under 6 years of age, as well as for lactating mothers; and (iii)
health and nutrition education and promotions, and environmental
health. (b) Strengthening of MOH's Statistical System. This will
help improve the statistical system through the financing of
improvement in system design, computer hardware and software, and
training of personnel at the provincial and central level. (c)
Project Administration. This component would help finance the
administrative and operating costs of the PCU over a six or seven-
year period (1997-2003). This includes: (i) financing of PCU
consultants; (ii) PROMIN II project preparation costs; (iii)
travel; (iv) training; and (v) other administrative expenses
(materials, cleaning, etc.).
4. Project Financing Project costs are estimated at US$171 million.
Bank financing will cover US$100 million; the IDB would finance
US$53.9 million; and provinces and municipalities would contribute
the remaining US$17.1 million.
5. Project Implementation The executing agency will be the Ministry
- 3 -



of Health.
6. Project Sustainability Analysis of project sustainability will
be completed during project appraisal. Incremental recurrent
expenditures would be incurred to provide health facilities and
child development centers with the necessary inputs in personnel as
well as goods and materials. The hiring of additional staff, when
redeployment of personnel is not feasible, and the development of
support services would be based on a gradual phase-in of project
activities. Provincial and municipal incremental recurrent
expenditures would be financed by the federal government on a
declining basis. Specifically, incremental recurrent purchases of
food, drugs, and other materials, and incremental recurrent
salaries, would be financed as follows: 100 percent, 70 percent,
and 30 percent during the first, second, and third years of
implementation by the federal government, and the balance, as well
as all incremental costs beginning in year four, out of provincial
and municipal budgets. This would be specified in the subsidiary
agreements between the MOH and the provinces.
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector In
addition to the analysis of PROMIN I, a review was made of lessons
learned from other relevant Bank group projects in health and
nutrition. The problems most encountered include: (i) uncertain
Government commitment; (ii) lack of flexibility in design; (iii)
inadequate project implementation arrangements; (iv) lack of clear
performance indicators; and (v) excessive number of covenants.
Government Commitment. Numerous projects have experienced
problems in implementation because of lack of commitment,
insufficient capacity in the ministries, or both.
Flexibility and Simple Design. Successful projects have been marked
by simplicity, clarity, and flexibility in design that would allow
a project to adapt itself easily to changing circumstances.
Project Implementation Arrangements. Project implementation needs
effective and sustainable institutional arrangements. Project
management unit functions should not be assumed by the Government
line agencies without adequate preparation.
Performance Monitoring Indicators. Past projects have
suffered from the lack of explicit measurable progress and end-
result indicators. The proposed project will include progress,
implementation, and impact indicators, that will be monitored
throughout project implementation.
Number of Covenants. The number of covenants should be
limited and monitorable. Compliance should be reviewed regularly
during supervision and enforced when necessary. The project will be
designed accordingly.
8. Poverty Category N/A
9. Environmental Aspects. The proposed project has an environmental
rating of B. Please see Annex below.
- 4-



10. Program Objective Categories The primary category is Public
Sector Management (PB).
1/ based on "Programas Alimentario-Nutricionales en Argentina", Fernando Vio, May 13 1995
(report to the IDB)
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 25, 1997.
- 5 -



ANNEX
Environmental Aspects
The infrastructure and equipment components include an analysis of
environmental health as part of the formulation and evaluation of the
subprojects (principally treatment and disposal of solid and liquid waste).
A guide for the formulation and evaluation of environmental aspects with
sections on diagnosis, interpretation and prevention of situations forms
part of the Operational Manual. For the purpose of controlling and
preventing any particular situation, subprojects will include an action
plan for measures to be taken to dispose, and treat appropriately, the
wastes of the health centers, regional health centers (CRRs), hospitals
and early childhood development centers (CDCs). The proposed project has
an environmental rating of "B."
-6-



