                     Document of
                   The World Bank




                                               Report No: 36544-AR

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                     (SCL-41640)

                        ON A

                        LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                       TO THE

                 ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                       FOR A

SECOND MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
                     (PROMIN II)




                     June 23, 2006

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 3, 2006)

                               Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR)
                                AR $3.0765 = US$ US$1.00
                            US$ US$0.3250 = 1 AR

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1         December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN             Auditoría General de la Nación
ANSES           Administración Nacional de Seguridad Social
CPPR            Country Portfolio Performance Review
IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDB             Inter American Development Bank
ISR             Implementation Status and Results
LA              Loan Agreement
NEA             North east provinces of Argentina
NIMR            Neonatal infant mortality rate
NOA             North west provinces of Argentina
MS              Ministerio de Salud de la Nación
MSA             Ministerio de Salud y Ambiente de la Nación
MSAS            Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social de la Nación;
OM       Operational Manual
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PAHO            Pan American Health Organization
PCD             Project Concept Document
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PIMR            Post neonatal infant mortality rate
PNES            Programa Nacional de Estadísticas de Salud
PROMIN          Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
PROMIN IISecond Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
TTL             Task team leader
UEM             Municipal executing unit
UEP             Provincial executing unit
UFI      Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional de Salud.

                             Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                  Country Director/Director       Axel van Trotsenburg
                            Sector Director       Evangeline Javier
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Fernando Lavadenz

                                        ARGENTINA
     SECOND MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
                                         (PROMIN II)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             18
6. Sustainability                                                                 22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  24
8. Lessons Learned                                                                29
9. Partner Comments                                                               30
10. Additional Information                                                        31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             43
Annex 8. Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency     45
Component

Project ID: P006059                                                  Project Name: AR-Maternal and Child Health and
                                                                     Nutrition 2 (PROMIN)
Team Leader: Fernando Lavadenz                                       TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR-Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition 2             L/C/TF Number: SCL-41640
                            (PROMIN)
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (95%); Central government administration (3%); Pre-primary education (2%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Child health (P); Population and reproductive health (P);
                            Access to urban services and housing (P); Gender (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/26/1996                                     Effective: 10/15/1997                11/14/1997
     Appraisal: 12/02/1996                                         MTR: 11/14/2000                  03/02/2001
      Approval: 05/15/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Argentine Republic/ Argentine: Ministry of Health and Social Action
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Gobind T. Nakani
Sector Manager:                 Keith E. Hansen                                Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:             Fernando Lavadenz                              J. J. de St. Antoine
ICR Primary Author:             Juan Prawda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Argentine Second Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (labeled as PROMIN II),
henceforth referred in this document as the Project, is a follow-up to the first Maternal and Child Health
and Nutrition Project (World Bank Loan 3643-AR) labeled in Argentina as PROMIN I. PROMIN II aimed
to: (a) substantially increase the provision of maternal and prenatal care services; (b) improve the provision
of pediatric services for children aged 5 or younger; (c) transform a substantial number of existing child
feeding centers and kindergartens into early childhood development centers; and (d) decentralize and
strengthen social services arrangements.

The previous operation PROMIN I was a US$160 million project (US$ 100 million from the Loan and
US$60 counterpart funding) implemented from October 1993 to March 2000 in six Provinces Buenos Aires,
Córdoba, Entre Ríos, Mendoza, Santa Fé and Tucumán.. PROMIN was designed to improve and strengthen the
preexisting structure of primary healthcare centers in Argentina by implementing a three-level attention
structure. The first level was the community. The locally-targeted purposes were the provision of accurate
medical information, the development of social communication channels, and the education of community
members in the detection and prevention of common diseases. The second level was the primary healthcare
center, viewed as the means of providing the community with direct and accessible way of receiving
medical attention. The third level was the local hospital, designed to be a last resource for ailments too
complex for the primary center to address. An important goal of PROMIN I was to avoid the overuse of
hospitals. As for the physical conditions of all type of health centers (known in Spanish as efectores),
PROMIN I was committed to the provision of the materials necessary to develop properly the
above-mentioned scheme. The purpose of the previous operation was to improve, rehabilitate and adapt
existing health centers, not build new ones, as the quantity and distribution of health centers was considered
to be "more than acceptable" and appropriately located.

Notwithstanding that PROMIN I yielded important and visible improvements in health infrastructure and in
the operation of health and child development services in some of the most disadvantaged urban areas of
the country, it came short in achieving other health developmental objectives. According to the preliminary
findings of several studies undertaken in 1999 and the corresponding Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) dated September 29, 2000 (Report No 20905), PROMIN I did not significantly affect: (i) the
proportion of infant deaths due to preventable causes; (ii) child morbidity, especially with respect to
diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory infections; (iii) birth outcomes with respect to the prevalence of low
birth weight; and (iv) the nutritional status of children. PROMIN I also fell short in areas that were
essential to the envisaged comprehensive health delivery model.           In particular, PROMIN I did not
appropriately: (a) foster the intended level of community outreach with respect to health workers actively
seeking out pregnant women and infants to assess their needs and provide care; (b) succeeded at stimulating
the use of information for decision making about delivery of services at the facility level; and (c) implement
the family planning counseling and related services foreseen during the design of this first investment.

Accordingly, PROMIN II was conceived to address the above-mentioned shortcomings and help extend the
coverage of PROMIN I to a larger number of Provinces and municipalities. PROMIN II was framed under
a similar context than the previous investment, in the sense that interested Provinces would propose
subprojects, some including technical assistance and infrastructure and others only technical assistance.
PROMIN II included some changes as compared to the previous investment.                  One change was the
introduction of a mid-term review of all subprojects to be financed under the loan as a condition for
subsequent disbursements. Undisbursed balances of poorly performing subprojects were to be transferred
to a common fund to which better performing Provinces would have access. Another important departure



                                                      - 2 -

from the previous investment was the change in the health delivery model and the enhancement of the early
childhood development model including the training of parents.

PROMIN II was targeted to assist an estimated 1.79 million poor people of at least 20 municipalities in 17
Provinces The Provinces of: Buenos Aires, Chaco, Chubut, Córdoba, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Formosa, Jujuy, La
Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquén, Río Negro, Salta, Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero and Tucumán., including
70,000 pregnant women, 55,000 children below one year of age and 250,000 children in the 2 to 5
year-cohort.

Although Argentina possessed a highly developed health system in the mid-nineties, particularly by
developing country standards, some significant health issues still needed to be addressed at the time
PROMIN II was identified at the end of 1995. The infant mortality rate (IMR) of 22.2 per 1000 live births
in 1995 was higher than in Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica and Uruguay, which had lower per-capita incomes
and less spending on health. The IMR was 1.1 to 1.3 times higher in the large, poor, periurban areas than
the national average. The northwest (NOA) and northeast (NEA) provinces The NOA provinces include:
Catamarca, Jujuy, Santiago del Estero and Tucumán. The NEA provinces include: Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa
and Misiones. registered the highest IMR in the entire country. Three-fourths of neonatal deaths and 60
percent of post-neonatal deaths were concentrated among the poor. Public health services, except those
served by PROMIN I, were overburdened and poorly equipped to handle the volume of demand especially
in the poor provinces of the NOA and NEA provinces and in densely populated periurban areas. Poorly
trained and utilized health personnel were major causes of inefficiency.

In addition, the number of pre-school-age children with unsatisfied basic needs (related to housing, hygiene,
access to safe water and health care) was estimated at 1.5 million. Of these, about two-thirds did not
receive adequate nutritional supplementation nor were provided with appropriate hazard health care
assistance.

Finally, as Argentina had never undertaken a nutrition survey, it was difficult to know much about the
seriousness of the nutrition problem in the country. The Government estimated that, by the mid-nineties,
25 percent of children under the age of 5 were below the tenth percentile in terms of height-for-age. The
carrying out of this survey, originally to be financed by PROMIN I but never executed under this operation,
was included as part of the project at the time of the first amendment (as further explained in section 3.4).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original loan agreement (LA) was amended two times during the life of the Project (see Section 3.4),
including two extensions of the closing date. The second amendment was part of a broader amendment of
the Argentina Bank-financed portfolio made during the emergency crisis in September 2002.
Notwithstanding that these two amendments did not modify the original project objectives, the fact that the
second one was part of a broader amendment, it required Board approval President's Memorandum entitled
"Argentina ­ Proposed Amendment to support the finance of the Emergency Program". Report 2002-0819,
September 30, 2002.

3.3 Original Components:
The following three components were included in the project:

Component A - Subprojects. Consisted in the carrying out of subprojects in the Provinces in the areas of
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition and Early Childhood Development, as well as the provision of
technical assistance to support the preparation and execution of subprojects at the Provincial and
Municipal levels.



                                                     - 3 -

Basically, the Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition dimension of this project component included tasks
in the following six large topics: (i) women's reproductive health care; (ii) child health care; (iii) targeted
food supplementation; (iv) health and nutrition education and promotion; (v) organization and delivery of
basic package of maternal and child health and nutrition services; and (vi) improvement of local health
service networks.

The Early Childhood Development dimension included: (i) the transformation of pre-school feeding
programs, child care centers and kindergartens into child development centers offering comprehensive care
nutrition assistance for the development of children 5 years of age or younger; (ii) the training of teacher,
mothers and other staff employed in child development centers; and (iii) the improvement or establishment
of coordination between local health facilities and the child development centers and the promotion of
outreach activities to strengthen linkages with household and the local community.

Finally, the provision of technical assistance aimed at: (i) the implementation of integrated models of health
care delivery by the Provinces and Municipalities; (ii) the establishment and consolidation of multisector
teams (health, education and social action) within the Provinces and Municipalities; (iii) the transfer of the
methodology of the Project to other projects of MSAS, especially in the areas of targeting, intersectoral
coordination, preparation, management, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects; and (iv) the
improvement of the efficacy and efficiency of the implementation of the milk for pregnant women and
malnourished infants program known in Argentina as Dación de Leche Program.

This component was intended to have a double targeting ­ first covering poor municipalities comprising a
significant number of households with unmet basic needs and then, within these municipalities, fertile and
pregnant women in the 10 to 49 year-age cohort and children under the age of 5 not being covered by any
other social safety net in the country.

Component B - Strengthening the statistical system of the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Social
Action (Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social- MSAS). The strengthening of MSAS's Statistical System
included upgrading of the system design, provision and use of computer hardware and software and
training of personnel at the provincial and national levels.




                                                      - 4 -

                             Table 1. Expected costs and sources of financing at appraisal
                   Components                          Total indicative         Bank financing          Government                      % of
                                                               Costs                (US$M)                 financing             Bank financing
                                                              (US$M)                                        (US$M)
                                                                (1)                    (3)                     (4)                     (3)/(1)
 Component A. Subprojects                                        77.9                  69.9                     8.0                     89.7
     Civil works                                                47.9                   45.5                    2.4                      95.0
                   Goods (except drugs and                      17.0                   11.4                    5.6                      67.0
              food)                                             13.0                   13.0                    0.0                     100.0
                   Consultant Services and
              Training                                           5.0                   4.8                     0.2                      96.0
     Component B. MSAS's Statistical                             3.4                   3.2                     0.2                      94.0
     System                                                      1.6                   1.6                     0.0                     100.0
     Goods                                                       5.4                   5.3                     0.1                      98.0
     Consultants                                                 4.8                   4.8                     0.0                     100.0
 Component C. PCU ­ UEPs -UEMs                                   0.6                   0.5                     0.1                      83.0
      Consultants                                               30.4                   20.0                   10.4 *                    66.0
      Goods                                                     52.3                   0.0                    52.3                      0.0
 Unallocated
 Recurrent expenditures
 Physical contingencies **
      Price Contingencies **
 Total project costs                                           171.0                   100.0                   71.0                     58.5
* Allocated to the Emergency Component at the time of the second amendment to the LA.
** They are included in the Bank's unallocated portion of the Loan
Source: Constructed from Annex 3 and the front page of the Project Appraisal Document (Report No 16419-AR), April 24, 1997. The World Bank.


Component C - Project Administration.                              Project Administration included the coordination and
supervision of the carrying out of Components A and B mentioned above at the national, provincial and
municipal levels. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MSAS was established at the national
level and provincial (UEP) and municipal (UEM) executing units were created in the participating
jurisdictions.

3.4 Revised Components:
The US$100 million Loan for this Project was approved by the World Bank (Bank) Board on May 15,
1997, signed on September 23, 1997 and became effective on November 14, 1997. The LA underwent two
amendments and two extensions of the closing date.

To better understand the revisions made within the original project design, three distinguished
implementation stages need to be highlighted. The first one running from the date of effectiveness in
November 1997 until December 1999 responded to the original design and practically centered its
implementation effort in the civil works under Component A.

The second stage, coincidental with the arrival of a newly elected administration of President De la Rua,
runs from 2000 until 2001 and responded to a reformulation of the original design due to: (i) the merging
and integration of the major functions of the PCU with those of the Mother and Child Health Division of
the Ministry of Health (MS) Formerly the MSAS in the previous administration of President Menem.; (ii) the
fine tuning of the ongoing health delivery model based on the lessons learned from over seven years
implementation experience since the launching of the previous operation in late 1993; and (iii) the
assessment of a need to further strengthening the institutional capacity of the provincial and municipal



                                                                     - 5 -

health authorities. This integration aimed at minimizing the duplications and inconsistencies in the norms,
health protocols and training activities being carried out by these different units and reduce the parallelism
between externally and nationally-financed maternal and child health activities at the national, provincial
and municipal levels. Accordingly, similar mainstreaming efforts were introduced in the mother and child
departments of the Provincial Ministries of Health and the municipal health authorities. On the other hand,
the fine tuning of the health delivery model aimed at having a more holistic approach to primary care and
incorporating more stakeholders, especially from the communities being served.

The third stage implemented from 2002 until the closing of the loan at the end of 2005 was intended to
cushion the health-related impact of the severe economic crisis in Argentina on the poor and vulnerable
population under the framework of the Health Emergency Program approved by the Borrower under
Presidential Decree 486 of March 12, 2002.

In view of the above, the first amendment to the LA responded to the conditions existing at the start of the
second phase. This amendment, approved by the Bank on June 30, 2001 and countersigned by the
Borrower on September 18, 2001, included a new component (D) of national studies to: (i) undertake a
nutrition survey at the national level; (ii) carry out a baseline and impact evaluation studies; and (iii) carry
out a special maternal, child health and early childhood development studies. All of these activities were to
be carried out under the managerial merging arrangements explained above. Schedules 1, 2 and 5 to the
LA were modified accordingly.

The second amendment to the LA responded to the Health Emergency Program launched by the
Government of Argentina during the economic crisis and coincides with the start of the third stage
explained above. This amendment, approved by the Bank on April 30, 2002 and countersigned by the
Borrower on July 21, 2002, and later on made part of a broader amendment of the Bank-financed
Argentina portfolio approved by the Board on September 2002 (see footnote 4): (i) established a new
component (E) referred to the protection of the most vulnerable through priority public health interventions,
including immunizations, disease control and ensuring services related to women's reproductive health care
and prenatal controls, such as anemia prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, pot-partum and child
health care, through the provision of pharmaceutical products, medical supplies and iron-fortified milk; (ii)
required the Borrower to enter into an agreement with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO),
satisfactory to the Bank, for the acquisition of vaccines; (iii) modified the internal management
arrangements adding to a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for assisting the Borrower, the
Provinces and the municipalities in the carrying out of the sub-projects under Component A, an
administrative unit (Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional de Salud.-UFI) responsible for the project's
fiduciary aspects (financial, procurement, monitoring and evaluation); and (iv) extended the closing date to
December 31, 2004. Schedules 1, 2, 4 and 5 to the LA were modified accordingly.

The inclusion of Component E, although not part of the original Project, was seen as a necessary measure
to pool resources along with savings in other projects to mitigate the impact of socio-economic crisis on
the por and other vulnerable groups targeted by the project thus threatening to impede the achievement of
the original Project's developmental objectives.

The severe economic crisis in Argentina since the late 1999, the acute budget restrictions imposed by the
Ministry of Economy during this period and the difficulties of the Borrower in allocating required
counterpart funding resulted in a need to extend the implementation horizon beyond the original closing
date. Total loan disbursements before the first extension was granted stood at about US$50.8 million (51
percent of the original amount contracted).        Accordingly, the Bank, at the request of the Borrower,
approved at the time of the second amendment to the LA, to extend the closing date from December 31,


                                                       - 6 -

2003 to December 31, 2004.

The second extension of the closing date from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005 was approved by
the Bank in July 1, 2004. This second extension responded mainly to the satisfactory implementation
progress shown by PROMIN II since 2003 when the economic crisis started receding and the fact that in
mid-2004 it was projected that about US$8 million were still left uncommitted from the original loan
amount. This extension allowed for the: (i) completion of remaining civil works under Component A
(especially hospital rehabilitations) and the National Nutrition Survey under Component D; and (ii) support
to begin implementing the maternal-child health insurance The Argentina Provincial Maternal-Child Health
Investment Project (P071025, Ln 72250), known in Argentina as Plan Nacer, and referred in the ICR as the
maternal-child health insurance scheme, is a demand-driven operation partially financed by a US$135.8 million
adaptable program lending Bank Loan approved by the Board on April 15, 2004, declared effective on November
23, 2004 and closing on December 31, 2009. This operation, initially targeted in the NOA and NEA provinces of
the country, aims to contribute to: (a) halting the increase in infant mortality and further reducing it; (b) supporting
the implementation of a significant change in health service contracting and management at the provincial level of
participating jurisdictions; and (c) strengthening the stewardship capacity of the national and provincial Ministries
of Health of participating provinces. Plan Nacer, is a direct cash transfer scheme from the Nation to the Provincial
Health Insurance Unit based on a set of agreed services performed on pregnant women between 10 and 49 year-old
and children between 0 and 6 years-old which are not covered by any other social protection scheme available in
the country. Plan Nacer is an innovative scheme that disburses project proceeds to participating provinces based
on audited enrollment of beneficiaries and observable and measurable results concerning agreed maternal and child
health indicators in these jurisdictions. The per capita amount has been currently set at AR$15 per month.
Initially targeted for about 900,000 beneficiaries in the NOA and NEA regions, this scheme is soon to be extended
to the entire country aiming at benefiting about 3.5 million poor and vulnerable women and children.            and the
sexual and reproductive health program.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the topics appearing in bold in the following
paragraphs. In order to avoid repetition, this section presents a summary of the main findings of this
assessment, leaving the details in Sections 4.2, 5.2, 5.3, 7.1 and 7.4 of the ICR.

Strategic relevance and approach.             The original Project design was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Argentina (Report 14278-AR) discussed by the Board on May 4, 1995,
with a Progress Report discussed on April 25, 1996. The then Project directly supported the CAS'
objectives of reducing poverty and improving efficiency and targeting of social services. By addressing
primary health care, the project was seen as a centerpiece of the Bank's strategy in the health sector in
Argentina. As envisaged by the CAS, PROMIN II was to complement the Provincial Health Development
project (Ln. 3931-AR), which aimed at improving the organization and management of hospitals, as well as
the Health Insurance Reform project (Ln. 4002/3-AR), which aimed at helping the financing of the sector.
PROMIN II was targeted to the poorest 30 percent of the population not benefiting from health insurance or
unable to afford private health care. PROMIN II was seen as part of the Government's overall safety net
program to help cushion the effects of unemployment and economic adjustments.

Client orientation. The project files indicate that during the design stage, the Bank preparation team
demonstrated sensitivity and commitment to results that were in the Government of Argentina's best
interest and consistent with the government health policies and conceptual strategies existing at that
moment to be addressed. Accordingly, PROMIN II responded to the request made in 1995 by the health
authorities of the Government of Argentina based on the shortcomings shown by the first operation and the
need to extend this health delivery model to other provinces and municipalities.



                                                         - 7 -

Lessons learned.        The design of PROMIN II incorporated important lessons learned during the
implementation of PROMIN I as well as from other international related experiences characterized as good
practices, like, the Northeast Basic Health Services I and II in Brazil. PROMIN II was sized not to put
excessive pressure on the institutional capacity at the national and provincial levels to respond effectively,
but at the same time to increase the service floor achieved by PROMIN I to other provinces and
municipalities. The flexible nature of PROMIN I was kept, under which a fund-type approach was
allocated to different provinces on the basis of agreed criteria and subprojects presented by the beneficiaries
themselves.    The Project design, a fine tuned version of the health delivery model developed under
PROMIN I, recommended by the Bank and the World Health Organization, was appropriate at the time.

Technical and institutional aspects. Technical and institutional capacity assessments were undertaken by
the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The lending phase profited from a cost-effectiveness analysis,
whose main findings appear in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). An Operational Manual (OM) and
an Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, were also ready at appraisal. Social and environmental
assessments were carried out during the preparation phase.

On the downside aspects of the quality at entry criteria, the monitoring and evaluation arrangements were
not sufficiently ready for most of the output indicators included in Annex 1 of the PAD. Not surprisingly,
Component B took a rather long time to get off the ground during project implementation. No baseline
information, neither mid-term targets were specified at appraisal. The availability of such data, including
possibly a full impact evaluation design, would have been important to further support the arguments made
in section 4.1 of this ICR concerning the achievement of the developmental objectives.

Fiduciary aspects. Financial management, procurement and environmental assessments were done during
the preparation phase and found to be satisfactory. A first-year procurement plan was ready at appraisal.
The accounting, financial administration (including contracting and disbursement), reporting and auditing
arrangements, mostly borrowed from PROMIN I, were ready at appraisal. The project complied with OD
4.01 concerning environmental issues. In particular, the Bank lending task team assessed the existing
arrangement and national requirements for health care waste management and found them to be appropriate
and satisfactory.

Based on the above evidence, the ICR team concludes that the Bank team ensured appropriate
implementation readiness conditions at the time of Board approval, at least for the most important
component (A). This was reflected, by and large, in a satisfactory implementation and loan disbursement
performance. Accordingly the ICR team ranks the Quality at Entry of this project as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of this ICR are largely based on: (i) the impact evaluation studies, the nutrition survey
and the health-related users satisfaction survey conducted by the MSA during 2004 and 2005, whose
findings were presented to the Bank during the closing workshop of December 2005 and to the ICR team;
(ii) the last two Bank Implementation Status and Results (ISRs), sequence 18 and 19, entered into the
Project's files in 2005; (iii) the final Execution Report prepared by the Borrower; (iv) a field visit carried
out in the City of Buenos Aires and in the municipality of Merlo in the Province of Buenos Aires from May
2 ­ 5, 2006; and (v) other related studies mentioned in Annex 7 of the ICR.

As further explained in Sections 7.2 and 7.6 of the ICR, project performance indicators were not recorded



                                                     - 8 -

until the PSR#14 of June 2003, at which time, the entire Annex 1 of the PAD was completely reformulated.
The original performance indicators agreed at the onset of Project implementation were overhauled in 2003
because: (i) their updating was considered to be financially and technically unsustainable in the long-term;
(ii) the information being collected in some PROMIN II health facilities was not representative of the larger
number of maternal and child health facilities in the country; (iii) they did not replace the traditional
information that was being collected by the national and provincial health authorities, thus duplicating
requirements for the already overburdened staff; (iv) the information collected was largely not being
utilized; (vi) there were inconsistencies in the information gathered as well as lack of reliability; and (vii)
there were too many indicators to collect (38).

With respect to the new set of performance and output indicators, the above-mentioned sources showed (see
Annex 1 of this ICR) that: (i) the number of health facilities and child development centers financed by the
project were increased from 658 to 1,362, almost 9 percent above the target set at appraisal of 1,250; (ii)
the number of pregnant women in the poorest income deciles receiving maternal prenatal care increased
from 44 percent at the start of the project to about 85.8 percent in 2005, a 43 percent increase above the
target set at appraisal of 60 percent; (iii) the number of poor children aged 0-6 years-old in the lower
income deciles receiving health care increased from 51 percent at the end of the nineties to 72 percent in
2005, a 20 percent increase above the target set at appraisal of 60 percent; and (iv) the number of poor
children aged 0-6 years-old in the lower income deciles fully vaccinated increased from 65 percent at the
start of the project to 90.8 percent in 2005, a 51.3 percent increase above the target set at appraisal of 60
percent.

As shown in table 2, Argentina displayed a 23.4 percent decrease in the IMR in the period 1997-2004.
This overall decrease occurred despite a slight increase during the economic crisis in 2001, where the IMR
increased from 16.3 in 2001 to 16.8 in 2002. The PROMIN Provinces decreased the IMR by 23.4 percent
from an average 18.8 per 1,000 live births in 1997 to 14.4 at the end of 2004.                Compared with
non-PROMIN provinces (more economically and socially developed jurisdictions with their own health
delivery model), the observed reduction of the IMR in the period 1997-2004 went from an average 16.9
percent to 14.4 (14.8 percent). The IMR reduction in the participating provinces, especially the ones in the
NOA and NEA regions, is the most important made by Argentina in the past 20 years.

This ICR cannot make any inferences about the contribution or causal link between Project activities and
the change in outcome indicators such as the IMR as no proper impact evaluation (with a treatment and
comparable control group) could be conducted.           Some broad comparisons between provinces are
interesting, however, even without implying causality.

When the IMR is broken into its two components, the neonatal infant mortality rate (NIMR), defined as
death occurring within the first 28 days after birth, and the postnatal infant mortality rate (PIMR), defined
as death occurring within the first year of life after surviving the first 28 days, the findings show that: (i)
the NIMR decreased 14.9 percent during the life of the project in PROMIN provinces from 11.4 percent in
1997 to 9.7 percent in 2004; and (ii) the PIMR decreased 34.3 percent during the same period from 7
percent in 1997 to 4.6 percent in 2004. In the non-PROMIN provinces the reduction of the: (a) NIMR in
the period 1997-2004 went from 10.9 percent to 10.1 (7.3 percent, larger than in the project provinces);
and (b) PIMR in the period 1997-2004 went from 5.7 percent to 4.3 (24.5 percent, lower than in the project
provinces).




                                                     - 9 -

                 Table 1. Infant mortality rate per 1,000 life births in the period 1997-2004
                  Year                    1990        1997       1998     1999     2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
           Infant mortality
 rate (IMR) in PROMIN provinces            25.6       18.8       19.1      17.6    16.6       16.3     16.8      16.5      14.4
 Percentage variation with respect to
              previous year                           - 26.6      + 1.6     - 7.8    - 5.7     -1.8     + 3.1      -1.8    - 12.7
   IMR in non-PROMIN provinces              23.6      16.9                                                         15.8     14.4
    Neonatal infant mortality rate
   (NIMR) in PROMIN provinces               15.6      11.4        11.7      11.3     10.9      10.6     11.3       10.5     9.7
 Percentage variation with respect to
              previous year                           -26.9       2.63     - 3.42   - 3.54    - 2.75    6.60       - 7.1   - 7.62
  NIMR in non-PROMIN provinces              14.3      10.9                                                         10.5     10.1
    Postnatal infant mortality rate
   (PIMR) in PROMIN provinces               9.4        7.0         7.4      6.3       5.7       5.6      5.6       5.9      4.6
 Percentage variation with respect to
              previous year                           - 25.5      5.71     - 14.8   - 9.52    - 1.75     0.0       5.36    - 22.0
  PIMR in non-PROMIN provinces              8.2        5.7                                                         5.2      4.3
Source: Dirección Nacional de Salud Materno Infantil, Ministerio de Salud y Ambiente de la Nación. Buenos Aires, Argentina,
2005.


In the absence of an experimental design, a factorial regression analysis of the IMR in each province with
other socio-demographic and economic variables was carried out by the Borrower indicating that: (i) 49.1
percent of the variance is positively correlated with the degree of poverty, indigence and lack of
employment of the province and negatively with family income (the higher the family income the lower the
IMR); (ii) 27.7 percent of the variance is negatively correlated with the economic growth of the province
(the higher and sustained is the economic growth the lower the IMR); and (iii) 16.3 percent of the variance
is negatively correlated with the index of human development of the province, meaning the degree of social
security coverage of its population, the per capita health and education expenditure in the province and the
degree of schooling of the mothers. Further analysis shows that the degree of schooling of the mothers is a
determinant factor in changing the IMR.

According to additional information provided by the MSA for PROMIN II provinces and reflected in Annex
1 of the ICR and the Borrower's final Execution Report: (i) the percent of hospital discharges by abortion
of poor women between 10 and 49 years-old was reduced from 9.5 percent in 2000 (baseline) to 8.9
percent in 2005 The sample of 2000 was 709,800 women in all PROMIN II provinces, while the one for 2005 was
111,372 women in 13 PROMIN II provinces. ; (ii) the percent of poor pregnant women with at least one
perinatal control increased from 87.8 percent in 2000 to 90.5 percent in 2005 For the year 2000 the data is
based on a sample of 36,678 patient's files in 12 Provinces, while for 2005 the data is based on a sample of 40,411
patient's files of the same 12 Provinces; (iii) the percent of poor pregnant women with five or more perinatal
controls increased from 52.8 percent in 2000 to 57 percent in 2005 Same sample as indicated in the previous
footnote.; (iv) the percent of malnourished poor pregnant women decreased from 28.3 percent in 2001 to
12.9 percent in 2005; (v) the percentage of children whose birth weight was less than 2.5 kilos slightly
increased from 7.2 percent in 1997 to 7.6 percent in 2004 This insignificant increase could also result from a
lower fetal mortality and larger number of life births indicating improved health indicator.; (vi) the percent of
malnourished children aged 0-5 years-old decreased from 2.9 percent in 1995 to 1.9 percent in 2004; and
(vii) the number of maternal and child health facilities which were renovated and fully equipped by the
project, especially in the NOA and NEA regions, increased by 24, from 56 at the start of the project to 80
in 2005.



                                                          - 10 -

Two surveys were conducted by Galiani et. al (see Annex 7) in May 2003 in three large localities ­ Rosario
in the Province of Santa Fe, Mar del Plata in the Province of Buenos Aires and La Rioja in the Province of
the same name. The first survey included 12 PROMIN II health facilities, while the second survey was
administered to a randomly selected sample of households located in the neighborhood of the surveyed
PROMIN II health facilities. A total of 512 randomly chosen beneficiaries were selected. The findings
show: (i) that the targeting carried out by the project up to May 2003 to select municipalities resulted in
high-density municipalities with a lot of poor people, but they were not necessarily the poorest
municipalities in the Province; (ii) that the targeting of poor households undertaken by the project resulted
in the inclusion of beneficiaries belonging to the poorest five income deciles, thus indicating that while
targeting was certainly satisfactory, there was room for improvement Meaning increased targeting in
population belonging to the lowest two or three income deciles.; (iii) households living near the PROMIN II
health facilities (five blocks or less) were more likely to use them than households living further away; and
(iv) children between the ages of one and two years-old were seven times more likely to attend the PROMIN
II health facilities than children under the age of 3 months, indicating that the program was not
appropriately reaching newborn infants (an important target for PROMIN II), who might have, though,
received medical attention at the hospital level.

A maternal and child health-related user satisfaction survey was conducted between February and April
2005 in a sample of 22 sub-projects financed under Component A in 15 provinces Buenos Aires, Córdoba,
Chaco, Chubut, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Salta, Santa Fe
and Rio Negro., involving a random sample of 5,753 persons, including poor pregnant women and some of
their relatives. About 48 percent of the surveyed pregnant women were in the age-range of 15-24, another
24 percent were between 25 and 29 years-old and 28 percent over 30 years-old. The survey also included 4
pregnant girls under the age of 15 years-old. About 77 percent of the sample that was surveyed had an
education of less than the equivalent of completed lower secondary level (less than the EGB3 level
certificate equivalent to less than 9 years of schooling). The baseline information was collected between
May and September 2001 in three sub-projects randomly selected in three provinces The sub-projects that
were selected to construct the baseline were: Oberá in the Province Misiones, Pilar in the Province of Buenos Aires
and Bariloche in the Province of Río Negro..

The main findings of this survey are: (i) the percentage of women attending a PROMIN II health facility
with a follow-up appointment out of the total attending in a given day increased from 25.2 to 52.1 percent
This finding provides a measures of the accomplishment of one of the objectives of the health delivery model
sponsored by PROMIN II referred to ensuring the periodic health-related follow-up of women and children,
especially those being at risk.; (ii) the average waiting time to be served in the health facility was reduced
from 1.45 hours to 1.10 hours A survey conducted in 1998 found an average two hours waiting.; (iii) 92.1
percent felt that they had from good to very good rapport with the attending doctor at the health facility,
while 87.8 percent felt likewise from the attending nurse and 89 percent from the admission administrative
officer; (iv) 84.1 percent found the health facility clean and 70.5 percent felt comfortable waiting to be
served; and (v) 25 percent felt the quality of the serviced rendered as better or much better than previous
occasions and 70 percent felt no change with respect to previous visits. In summary, the survey shows, by
and large, that more than 90 percent of the sample had a perception of satisfaction of these maternal and
child health facilities ranging from "satisfied" to "very satisfied" which compares favorably with the 66
percent that felt likewise in the baseline information.

The attendance of children from early childhood development center to referral health facilities for a
medical check-up was taken as a measure of the articulation of these two services envisaged by the
PROMIN II delivery model. Accordingly, on average, about 87 percent of children assisting to early



                                                       - 11 -

childhood development centers received at least one yearly medical check-up. This percentage ranges from
a low 61.9 percent in Formosa, 64.8 percent in Corrientes and 69.8 percent in Santa Fe to a high 100
percent in Córdoba, Chaco, Jujuy and La Rioja. In addition, the percentage of early child development
centers functionally articulating with a primary health center increased from almost zero at the start of the
Project to 86.8 percent in 2005.

Given that the originally specified targets for output and outcome indicators (see Annex 1) were achieved
(and often surpassed), the ICR team ranks the achievement of developmental objectives as satisfactory As
mentioned in the main text, the lack of an experimental design prevents the ICR team to assert that this
achievement is a direct consequence of PROMIN II activities, and thus granting a higher ranking..

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. This component financed: (i) the carrying out of maternal and child health related civil
works subprojects; (ii) the fine tuning and institutionalization of a maternal and child health delivery model
originally conceived in the previous operation; (iii) the increasing and strengthening of early child
development centers; and (iv) the provision of technical assistance to support the preparation and execution
of subprojects at the Provincial and Municipal levels.

With respect to the sub-projects, PROMIN II financed a total of 367 public works which were completed
between November 1997 and December 2005.               Out of this total, 248 works corresponded to the
construction and/or rehabilitation of primary care health facilities as well as hospital rehabilitations and
119, to early childhood development centers.

This component was implemented along three distinguished periods. During the first one running from
1998 up to the start of the economic crisis at the end of 1999, 259 of the above-mentioned public works
were completed in 12 provinces (21 percent in the Province of Buenos Aires, 19 percent in Córdoba, 13
percent in Río Negro, 12 percent in Jujuy and 10 percent in Chaco). The second period running from 2000
to mid-2002 is characterized by a significant slow down of public works as a consequence of the severe
economic crisis faced by Argentina and the lack of national and provincial counterpart funding. One issue
that affected the entire Bank-financed portfolio in Argentina during these two and half years was the
absence over 16 months of guidelines addressing the issue of inflation and agreements with the Bank on an
appropriate formula to adjust prices concerning works and services already contracted or to be contracted.
Once the polynomial formula (based on data provided by the National Institute of Statistics and Census)
was approved by the Government of Argentina, and agreed by the Bank, the construction program under
Component A resumed full speed in the second semester of 2002. During the third period from mid-2002
to the end of 2005, a total of 108 works were procured and completed. From these 108 works, 87 were
located in the NOA and NEA regions of the country registering the worst health indicators in Argentina.

The City of Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Neuquén, San Luis, Santa Cruz, Santiago del Estero and Tierra del
Fuego were the only seven geo-political jurisdictions in Argentina not benefiting from civil works under
Component A in any of the two PROMIN operations, although they did receive technical assistance. On
average, public works financed under this component reflect a cost increase of about 5.8 percent with
respect to the estimated one at the time of issuing the corresponding bids, and about 3.5 percent from the
one entered in the contract. The average unit cost per square meter was US$385.50 which compares
favorably with the average unit costs in the private construction market averaging about US$578 per
square meter.

On the downside, site visits by some Bank supervision missions to some of the works completed under this
Component reflect less than desirable provision of appropriate health equipment and lack of a policy,



                                                     - 12 -

strategy and resources at both the national and provincial levels, for preventive and corrective maintenance
to ensure quality service and long-term sustainability. The ICR team was informed by MSA that in those
municipalities where there is a tradition of active social and community participation, the likelihood to
better preserve the physical conditions of these health facilities provided by the project improves.

The increase in coverage of maternal and prenatal care services to poor pregnant women and of pediatric
coverage of children aged 0 to 6 years-old described in section 4.1 of the ICR, as well as the transformation
of child feeding centers and kindergartens into early childhood development centers was made possible
through the maternal and child health delivery model promoted and financed by PROMIN II.                   As
mentioned before, this delivery model included sub-projects and technical assistance in some provinces, and
only technical assistance in other provinces. The former modality of the delivery model was extended from
4 provinces to 13 by the previous PROMIN operation and from 13 to 15 Provinces by PROMIN II. The
latter modality was extended to the 24 jurisdictions by PROMIN II. According to the findings provided
above, the ICR team concludes that through this delivery model, the efficiency and quality of the services
provided at the centers of health referral and at the first level of health delivery were improved (although it
is difficult to gauge the degree of improvement) and their articulation strengthened. In addition, this
delivery model also improved the articulation of health-related activities with nutrition and early childhood
development as described in section 4.1 of the ICR.

This delivery model is characterized by: (i) the conformation of multidisciplinary teams (prenatal and
postnatal health, nutrition, sexual and reproductive health, child development and social communication)
working in close contact with the community; (ii) a high degree of decentralization displayed by local
programming of activities; (iii) the targeting of poor women in fertile age belonging to the lower income
deciles in highly populated areas and presenting medium to low risk pregnancies as well as children under
the age of six; (iv) a systematized follow up of pregnant patients; (v) continuous training of the
multidisciplinary teams and provision of training materials and guides; and (vi) targeted social
communication and dissemination activities. This component supported the implementation of Plan Nacer
(mentioned in footnote 6).

Notwithstanding the above achievements, the project file documents indicate some factors that affected the
execution of this and other components, as further described in sections 5.2 and 5.3 of the ICR. In
addition, the targeted training provided under this Component to the PROMIN II technical teams excluded
some key actors involved in the managing of publicly financed primary health services at the provincial,
municipal and institutional (hospital) levels which would have contributed to further enrich the outcomes.


Taking into account the above-mentioned facts, the ICR mission ranks the implementation of this Project
Component as satisfactory.

Component B. The national health statistics system was financially and technically neglected during the
last 30 years. As a consequence, this system lacked modern computational and communication technology,
especially between the national and provincial health authorities, as well as an appropriate professional
skill mixed at the national and provincial levels, resulting in an outdated and unreliable health information
system. Notwithstanding the priority assigned to this component first by PROMIN I in 1994 and then by
PROMIN II in 1997, it took more than four years after effectiveness of the later operation to get this project
component off the ground in 2002.

This component supported the strengthening of two tracks of interrelated health-related information
systems. The first one referred to the National Health Statistics, while the second referred to the impact


                                                     - 13 -

and outcome variables defined for the project as they appear in Annex 1 of the PAD. With respect to the
first track, the initial set of activities financed under this component was the migration of the historical
national health statistical trends (Programa Nacional de Estadísticas de Salud - PNES) from 1980 to 1999
which were archived in the Administración Nacional de Seguridad Social (ANSES) to the Dirección de
Estadísticas e Información de Salud in the Ministry of Health and Environment (Ministerio de Salud y
Ambiente de la Nación - MSA) This was now the official name given during the administration of President
Duhalde to the former MS during the administration of President de la Rua.. The second challenge of the first
track was to reconstruct a baseline starting in the year 2000. These achievements were then followed in
2002 by the development and testing of a revised set of national and provincial health indicators including
basic health indicators to be collected on an annual basis, analyzed, interpreted, published and disseminated
to a wide range of users. Finally, this track benefited from the efforts to install and train qualified human
resource capacity at the national and provincial levels to keep the system functional and be able to update
the information on an annual basis.

Today, the provincial health statistics system, through the Oficinas Provinciales de Estadísticas de Salud,
is connected on-line with the national level. This on-line connectivity also required training of the national
and provincial technical staff.       There is also a health-web site in the MSA (www.msal.gov.ar or
www.deis.gov.ar) where interested people can consult addresses of health facilities, historical health
statistical yearly information, publications, health laws and regulations, information about several common
diseases and templates for the request of health-related services. At the national level there is a Health
Documentation Center.

With respect to the second track supported by Component B, for the reasons explained in the second
paragraph of section 4.1 of the ICR, the original Annex 1 of the PAD was replaced by the indicators
included in Annex 1 of the ICR (which are similar to the ones recorded from PSR # 14 onwards). Once
agreement was reached before June 2003 on these new maternal and child health-related indicators,
collection guidelines and materials were developed along training workshops, and the corresponding
information collected, analyzed, interpreted and disseminated. This process has been a recurrent one since
2005, with a quarterly update of the information.

To achieve the above, the information system established under this track was provided with the
appropriate hardware and software, as well as furniture at both the national and provincial levels. A total
of 24 information networks, including one server with three computers in each network, were installed in all
the jurisdictional health authorities' offices. In addition, the 250 most important perinatal and obstetric
hospitals in the country were provided with one computer to be linked to this system.

Importantly, the information provided by these two tracks is being used operationally to update the tracers
utilized by the maternal and child health insurance scheme, as a means to transfer to the participating
provinces 40 percent of the monthly per capita cash-transfer they are allowed to receive based on the
audited enrollment roster of accredited beneficiaries 60 percent of the cash transfer is transferred based on
the audited roster of registered beneficiaries in the participating province. For the remaining 40 percent,
agreement has been reached on ten tracers of equal weight which provide an updated picture of the average
maternal and child health status of the province and which are periodically being monitored. Worsening of
a given tracer in a province, with respect to a previous measure prevents the monthly transfer of 10 percent
of the 40 percent mentioned above.

Accordingly, and despite the late start of the project component, a satisfactory rating is provided by the
ICR team to the execution of this Component.




                                                      - 14 -

Component C. The execution of this component is rated satisfactory based on the explanation provided in
sections 7.5 and 7.6 of the ICR referred to the Government and Implementing Agency performance.

Component D. As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, the national nutrition and health survey was included
as part of PROMIN I but was never executed, although terms of reference were approved by the Bank in
October 1995 and an international bidding procedure to select a qualified consultant, undertaken in the
period August to December 1996. This bidding process was canceled by the Borrower in February 1997,
mainly due to the fact that the winning economic offer of about US$20 million significantly exceeded the
amount allocated in the project to undertake this study of about US$6 million. Agreement was then
reached with the Borrower prior to negotiations of PROMIN II to include an abridged version of the
original envisaged nutritional study as part of the new operation.

Nevertheless, no significant action was taken by the Borrower and the Bank supervision teams to advance
the implementation of this component during the period 1998-1999, beyond initial efforts to redefine
preliminary terms of reference. The need not to delay any further the implementation of this project
component was discussed with the new administration during the supervision mission of January 2000.
Although some related technical discussions including local as well as international experts took place in
2000, due to the severe economic crisis, no follow-up action to select a qualified consulting firm was
carried out during 2001 and 2002. The selection process to identify qualified consulting firms to carry out
the collection of information as well as the blood sampling and analysis was carried out in 2003. This
selection was carried out under a national bidding process. After the firms were identified and selected, the
anthropometric, biometric and eating behavior instruments Some of the variables to be measured where the
height and weight as a function of age in children, presence of anemia in children and women, nutritional status of
women and cholesterol levels in women.       were developed and tested in September 2004 and the field data
collection carried out in the period October 2004 ­ July 2005. The analysis and interpretation of the data
immediately followed resulting in preliminary findings at the time of the ICR team visit to Argentina in
May 2006.

The objective of this survey was to assess the: (i) the health and nutritional status of children in the age
range of 6 months to 5 years and pregnant women of the 10 to 49 years-old; (ii) quantify the magnitude and
the distribution of the principal nutritional problems and identify relevant causing factors; and (iii) orient
the health policy discussion to address the relevant health and nutritional issues at the national, regional and
provincial levels. Four independent samples, statistically representative at a regional level comprising all
provinces, were selected. These samples included four groups: (i) children aged 6 months to 23 months; (ii)
children in the 2-5 age cohort; (iii) fertile women in the 10-49 age-cohort; and (iv) pregnant women in the
10-49 age cohort. The field data included information from almost 36,500 individuals belonging to the
four groups mentioned above and a little over 27,000 blood samples The difference between the size of the
field and blood collection samples is explained by the fact that the former had to agree to have blood taken from
them.
 The objective of the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project in Argentina,. This huge effort
required the identification of 300,000 urban household to randomly select the population to be surveyed.

The preliminary findings present a prevalent nutritional and health photo of the surveyed population
including their average anthropometric, biometric and eating behavior observable measures as a function of
the socio-economic and health characteristics of this population Metaphorically speaking, one can imagine a
cube with three axis: (ii) the anthropometric, biometric and nutritional observable measures of the surveyed
population; (ii) socio-economic variables; and (iii) health variable. . This prevalent transversal study cannot at
this time address yet possible causes.        In order to suggest hypothesis on possible causes, a second
nutritional study, including a representative sample of the rural areas, is warranted in about 5 years to



                                                       - 15 -

establish trends. The Bank has suggested including the second survey in the new Essential Public Health
project.

Accordingly, the ICR team grants a satisfactory rating to this Component.

Component E. The Emergency Health Program was a concerted and targeted effort of the Argentinean
Government to cushion the poor and vulnerable population from the negative impact caused by the severe
economic crisis from the end of 1999 to mid 2002. This Emergency Health Program was supported by
various health and non-health related investments financed by the Bank and the Inter American
Development Bank (IDB) in Argentina including PROMIN II. The Emergency Program consisted of the
following activities: (i) the acquisition of essential pharmaceutical products (vaccines, antibiotics,
contraceptives, ARI medications, etc.), iron-fortified milk and medical supplies required in the
improvement of services related to women's reproductive health care and prenatal controls financed by
PROMIN II; (ii) the prevention and control of diseases and specific risks, especially AIDS and other
sexually transmittable diseases under the Bank-financed VIGI-A project The objective of the Public Health
Surveillance and Disease Control Project in Argentina, known in Spanish as VIGI-A, a US$52.5 million loan (Ln
4516-AR) approved by the Board on October 14, 1999 and to close on May 31, 2006, aims at: (a) strengthening
national, provincial, municipal, and institutions responsible for public health policy and practice to make informed
decisions on prevention control, better monitor changes in health trends, and allocate resources effectively; (b)
improving disease control through institutional building at provincial levels, to better monitor, control and prevent
such diseases, especially febrile illnesses (tuberculosis and dengue) in high incidence areas; and (c) implementing a
strategic promotion on health, through education, social mobilization, and policy advocacy.; and (iii) the
acquisition of other primary health-related pharmaceutical products under the PROAPS-REMEDIAR
project financed by the IDB.

Correlated with this emergency program, the Government of Argentina also: (a) launched the Sexual and
Reproductive Health Program; and (ii) strengthened the Health Federal Council (Consejo Federal de
Salud), as an institutional space chaired by the National Minister of Health and comprising all the
Jurisdictional Ministers of Health to discuss and approve health-related policy matters and strategies.

From the total expenditure of this Component in the 24 Argentinean jurisdictions amounting to about
US$34.6 million (including the loan and counterpart funding), about 80 percent was allocated for the
acquisition of fortified milk, 15 percent for the acquisition of inputs required in the sexual and reproductive
health program as further detailed below and about 5 percent for prenatal and child-related basic
pharmaceutical products. The supply of fortified milk Fortified milk is considered a national good, thus its
provision is a responsibility of the MSA. benefited about 80 percent of the children of the universe of poor
women utilizing the public health system. All this effort has contributed in reducing the IMR, as explained
above.

PROMIN II supported the implementation of the Sexual and Reproductive Health program approved in
October 2002 under the Law 25.673. One of the objectives of this program was to provide the targeted
population with the information and the required contraceptive devices to prevent unwanted pregnancies,
AIDS and other venereal diseases and to ensure that women in fertile age would exercise more control on
their sexual and reproductive-related decisions.

The Sexual and Reproductive Health Program addresses one Argentinean paradox of poor health outcomes
with high levels of spending on health that could be traced to extreme unevenness in access to basic
reproductive health services, including family planning. The absence of a functional reproductive health
program contributed to high levels of maternal illness and death, as well as high expenditures on curative



                                                         - 16 -

care. The failure to cover basic family planning services under the primary health services was one
example of inadequate policy response that this program aimed at addressing.

Since the start of this program in May 2003, PROMIN II financed the acquisition of about 39.2 million
contraceptive devices, including condoms in 5,547 participating health facilities in 24 provinces (63 percent
of the total in the country). The number of beneficiaries increased from 203,000 women in 2003 in 9
provinces to 2.3 million people in the 24 jurisdictions in 2005, representing between 45 to 50 percent of
poor women in fertile age in Argentina not being covered under any other health insurance scheme. This
program relies heavily on timely dissemination and social communication activities to the communities as
well as in continuous training and provision of information materials and guidelines to the professional
teams that are involved.

This program has contributed to the reduction of the maternal mortality rate from 4.7 percent in 1997 to
about 4 percent in 2004 (14.9 percent reduction), which is about equal to the target of 15 percent reduction
set at the launching of this component in 2003.

The sexual and reproductive health effort aims to continue: (i) increasing access to more women while
keeping quality of the services to be provided; (ii) strengthening its articulation with the education sector,
especially the one serving adolescent school population; and (iii) ensuring long-term financial, technical and
institutional sustainability in the provision of sexual and reproductive information and contraceptive
devices.

The vaccines to be acquired by the Project through PAHO as stipulated in Clause 3.08 of the LA at the
time of its second amendment ended up being purchased through the VIGI+A operation. The role of PAHO
in PROMIN II was limited to some specific technical assistance.

Factoring all of the above-mentioned observations, the ICR mission ranks the outcome of Component E as
highly satisfactory and of the overall investment as satisfactory and reflected accordingly in Section 2 of
this ICR.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impacts were identified by the ICR team as being substantive.
First, the maternal and health delivery model implemented in PROMIN II health facilities was also extended
to non-PROMIN health facilities in the NOA and NEA provinces, as well as in other jurisdictions of the
country. The focus of the extension was on the supervision with training, appointment and follow up
systems as well as in the articulation of hospitals to health facilities referrals and counter-referrals as well
as with the early child development centers and community education. Under this delivery model, the work
on preventable infant and maternal deaths via death audits and review committees was implemented in all
PROMIN II health facilities. Likewise, guidelines for perinatal health care and respectful childbirth with
fewer interventions were published and distributed. This is an important institutional development impact,
as before, there were neighboring health facilities operating in given municipalities with different models of
service provision and greatly disconnected from the early child development centers.




                                                    - 17 -

Second, the Project supported the strengthening of the Provincial Maternal and Child Health Directorates
(Direcciones Provinciales de Maternidad e Infancia) of all the participating jurisdictions underpinning
their strategic role in improving the health status of the most vulnerable population in their catchment's
area.

Third, the health services provided under the maternal and child health insurance scheme currently
operating in the NOA and NEA provinces (but soon to be extended to rest of the country) utilize the
infrastructure provided by PROMIN II. In addition, as explained before in footnotes 6 and 16 of the ICR,
40 percent of the cash transfer to the Provincial Health Insurance Unit is based on health trend information
(tracers), some of which are generated by the statistical information systems financed under Component B.
The sexual and reproductive health program financed by PROMIN II is also contributing in the
implementation of the maternal and child health insurance operation.

Fourth, parts of PROMIN's early childhood development model are also being replicated in some new
community food projects that respond to the emergency, like, for example, soup kitchens financed by
FOPAR and others. Specifically, links between many kitchens and health facilities have been created to
assure that children receiving food are getting both well-childcare and care for illness, parental education
programs (nutrition, childcare, behavioral issues) and in service supervision developed under PROMIN.

Fifth, the instruments developed locally for the nutrition survey, the training materials as well as the
protocols and algorithms to collect and analyze field data are now available to conduct, in the near future
(when warranted), a follow up survey, to also include the rural areas of the country.

Importantly, another dimension of PROMIN's institutional development impact has been at the policy level
of the current administration like: (i) the enactment of the National Reproductive Health Law, approved in
November 2002, for which the Dirección de Salud Materno Infantil of the MSA elaborated and distributed
the corresponding guidelines, training materials and norms and continues with the procurement and
distribution of contraceptives and the training of health-related personnel; (ii) the enactment of Provincial
Laws referred to Sexual and Reproductive Health, currently approved in 14 jurisdictions; (iii) the granting
of health rights to women and children participating in the Plan Nacer; (iv) the enactment of the Ley
Nacional de Seguridad Alimenticia; and (v) the launching of the inter-sectoral program labeled Primeros
Años involving the Ministries of Social Development, Education and MSA.

For all of the above reasons, the ICR mission is of the view that the institutional development impact of the
Project has been substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The severe economic and financial crisis faced by Argentina since mid- 1999 until the end of 2002 was the
main factor that hindered effective project implementation. Without wanting to discuss internal and
external factors causing this crisis, budgetary implications resulted in lack of financial resources previously
earmarked to PROMIN II, both from the Loan as well as from counterpart funding.

These are some effects of the economic crisis highlighting its severity: (i) GDP decreased by 3.4 percent in
1999, 0.8 percent in 2000, 4.5 percent in 2001 and 10.9 percent during 2002; (ii) unemployment rose to
21.5 percent in 2002; (iii) about 53 percent of the population was at the poverty level while almost 25
percent was at the indigence level (defined as those whose daily income is not sufficient to acquire food);
(iv) consumer prices rose by 41 percent during 2002 (though the year-on-year increase was 26 percent);



                                                     - 18 -

(v) net international capital flows to Argentina was a negative US$4.6 billions 2001 and US$11.4 billions
in 2002; (vi) international reserves declined to US$10.5 billions; (vii) the Argentinean Government stopped
making payments on most of its huge debt; (viii) depositors saw their savings accounts frozen and
limitations placed on the amounts they could withdraw from their checking accounts while their dollar
deposits were forcibly converted to pesos at an unfavorable exchange rate; and (ix) many businesses faced
bankruptcy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The ICR team identified six factors subject to government control that hindered more effective project
implementation most of which are related to macroeconomic factors exacerbated by the economic crisis.
The first factor concerns the National Ministry of Economy severely restricting the budget during the
economic crisis (1999-2002), and the untimely release of authorized project resources, both from the Loan
as well as from national counterpart funding. The provinces, being affected by the same economic crisis,
mirrored the above financial tactics in their own jurisdictions, severely limiting the availability of provincial
counterpart funding. As a consequence, all new construction was practically suspended during this period,
and the ongoing construction contracted prior to the fiscal crisis, significantly slowed down. While rising
unemployment and malnutrition led to an increase in the demand for maternal and child health services
provided by the public sector, the ability to respond to this demand by the provincial and municipal health
authorities was seriously impeded by these budget cuts.

The second factor refers to the MSA's untimely release of authorized project resources, both from the Loan
as well as from counterpart funding resulting, for example, in contracts signed to purchase milk and
contraceptives during 2003 and 2004, for which money was not disbursed on time. This untimely release
of approved funds by the line Ministry is in addition to the one explained in the paragraph above referred to
the Ministry of Economy.

The third factor concerns the default by the Argentinean Government on its international debt, including the
one with the World Bank that lasted three months (from December 14, 2002 to February 2003), and led to
a temporary suspension on the Bank disbursements of Loan proceeds.

The fourth factor refers to the absence over 16 months of a guideline addressing the issue of inflation and
agreements with the Bank on an appropriate formula to adjust prices concerning works and services
already contracted. This lack of price increase guideline practically stopped the construction program until
April 2003 when that situation was favorably resolved.

The fifth factor concerns the consistent untimely delivery of annual Audit Reports by the Auditoría
General de la Nación (AGN) which hindered the likelihood of taking opportune corrective and preventive
measures concerning possible non-compliance with some of the covenants to the LA.

Finally, the delicate power balance in the equation imbedded in federal government systems (like Argentina)
between the Nation in charge of setting health policies and strategies and the Provinces in charge of
managing and delivering the health services in their jurisdiction, also hindered in some Provinces a faster
and more effective project implementation pace. This impeding factor was exacerbated by the weak
institutional capacity existing in some Provincial health authorities hampering the execution of
nationally-sponsored programs like PROMIN II. This situation is similar in almost all sectors recipient of
Bank financing where the national authorities play more the regulatory role and the provinces manage the
delivery of the related services.




                                                     - 19 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ICR mission identified five major factors under the implementing agency's control which slowed down
the execution pace. The first one refers to the over commitment of loan resources in 1999 and the need to
retract on agreements made with provinces with approved sub-projects. It took the entire year 2000 to
solve this management oversight resulting in no new sub-projects being implemented during this year.

The second factor refers to the over dimensioning of the PCU, UEPs and UEMs during the initial phases of
project implementation up to the time of the first amendment to the LA resulting in lack of effective and
timely monitoring of project execution. The third factor refers to an issue raised by the Bank supervision
missions at the end of 2002 and during 2003 and reported in the corresponding Back-to-Office Reports.
This issue concerns the view of the supervision team that the UFI of the MSA was delaying the contracting
process required for the execution of component B, holding up for months the hiring of required qualified
consultants and, in turn, increasing administrative costs.

The fourth factor concerns changes in the national and provincial governments leading to several turnovers
of high level project staff. These changes, in particular the ones taking place during the economic crisis,
led to a virtual stand-still in the execution of the project. There were periods in the PROMIN II execution
cycle void of leadership at the PCU, UEPs and UEMs levels, contributing to morale problems and lack of
execution of project works. These changes in turn required additional training of the new staff with the
obvious delays in project implementation in the corresponding jurisdictions. This hindering factor was
further compounded in some Provinces by the lack of transparent set of criteria and procedures for the
selection of project-related qualified consultants.

There was heterogeneity in the quality of the provincial technical teams in charge of preparing sub-project
proposals and implementing them, ranging from satisfactory in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Chubut,
Misiones and Rio Negro, to moderate satisfactory in Corrientes, Córdoba, Entre Ríos, Jujuy and La Rioja
to unsatisfactory in Chaco and Formosa.

The final factor relates to the existence up to 2000 of parallel health structures at the national and
provincial levels. One structure responded to the externally-financed project implementation arrangements
devised by PROMIN II in 1997 while the other corresponded to the locally-financed traditional existing
health structures at the national, provincial and municipal levels. This parallelism slowed down project
execution in the early stages of the implementation cycle due to duplications and inconsistencies in the
norms, health protocols and training activities being carried out by these different units. As mentioned
elsewhere in the ICR, this parallelism was addressed by the administration of President De la Rua at the
time of the first amendment to the LA.

5.4 Costs and financing:
According to the last table in Annex of the ICR, the total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$171
million equivalent, of which US$100 were from the Bank loan (58.5 percent), and the rest, US$71 million
equivalent (41.5 percent), from counterpart funds (US$54 million from the Federal Government and US$17
million from the participating Provincial governments).

As shown in the cost table below and in the last table of Annex 2, total documented project expenditures
were US$134.52 million, or 78.7 percent of the total amount estimated at appraisal. PROMIN II disbursed
the entire original Loan amount of US$100 million. In the case of the counterpart funds, the project only
disbursed 48.6 percent of the original estimated amount (US$34.52 million). This shortfall is explained by



                                                      - 20 -

the following three factors. First, the severity of the economic crisis from mid 1999 to the end of 2002 that
limited the availability of local funding and curtailed recurrent expenditures (financed 100 percent by
counterpart funds). Second, the original costs were estimated at appraisal using a one to one parity of the
Argentinean peso with respect to the US dollar, but from 2002 onwards, the real parity was about three
pesos for one dollar. Accordingly, only one fourth of the estimated recurrent costs of the project were
actually spent. Finally, some acquisitions originally assumed to be charged to Project's counterpart
funding ended up being financed by the United Nations Development Fund.

The emergency program under Component E registered an overspending of about 17.6 percent over the
original estimated amount at the time of the second amendment to the LA including local funding (US$34.6
million equivalent against US$29.41 million equivalent). This overspending reflects the determination and
effective response of the Government to cushion the negative health impact of the severe economic crisis
faced by the Argentinean population, especially the poor and vulnerable, since mid-1999.

The overspending in consultants, other than the ones assigned to the PCU, UEPs and UEMs, of about 67.3
percent with respect to the appraised estimates (US$24.4 million equivalent against US$14.6 million
equivalent) is mainly explained by the fact that all the training costs, including the development of training
materials and the delivery of the training workshops, was accounted under this category of expenditure.

On the other hand, the overspending in project administration of about 102 percent with respect to the
estimates set at appraisal (US$9.7 million equivalent against US$4.8 million equivalent) reflects two
issues. First, two years of additional project management due to the two extensions of the closing date.
Second, at appraisal, project administration including consultants and goods, was estimated to represent
about 3.1 percent of the total cost of the project. At the closing of the project, this percentage climbed to
almost 7.9 percent, that is, more than doubled. As mentioned in sections 7.2 and 7.6 of the ICR, several
Bank supervision missions flagged the inflated management structures that had been set at the national
(PCU), provincial (UEPs) and municipal (UEMs) levels to manage PROMIN II. In effect, in 1999
management costs represented 12 percent of the executed loan proceeds of that year, while in 2000 it
represented 13.6 percent, significantly higher to international standards recommending not more than 6
percent. At the time of the arrival of the administration of President de la Rua at the end of 1999, this issue
was addressed and a radical streamlining effort was undertaken at all levels of project management. This
effort is reflected by the fact that management costs started to drastically decline from 9.5 percent of the
executed loan proceeds in 2001 to 4.4 in 2005, the last year of project execution.




                                                      - 21 -

   Table 2. Loan overview by category of expenditure at four different time periods of the
                                          implementation cycle
        Category               Original      Allocated at the  Allocated at the Disbursed at the  (4)/(1) for all,
                            Allocation as    time of the first   time of the     closing of the       except
                          approved by the      amendment           second            Loan           (4)/(2) for
                               Board on        07/30/2001       amendment         12/31/2005     category 5, and
                              05/15/1997                         04/19/2002                         (4)/(3) for
                                                                                                    category 6
                                  (1)              (2)              (3)               (4)                (%)
(1) Subprojects                69,900,000      77,800,000        60,100,000        62,624,188      89.6
  (a) goods (except drugs
  and food)                    11,400,000      13,000,000         8,600,000        9,381,469             82.3
  (b) works                    45,500,000      40,800,000        28,500,000        31,585,123            69.4
  (c) Consultants'
services and training          13,000,000      24,000,000        23,000,000        21,657,596           166.6
(2) MSAS's Statistical
System                         4,800,000        2,400,000         2,600,000        1,192,639       24.8
  (a) Goods                    3,200,000        1,200,000         1,200,000         578,016              18.1
  (b) Consultants'             1,600,000        1,200,000         1,400,000         614,623              38.8
services
(3) Project
Administration                 5,300,000        8,600,000         8,500,000        8,765,863       165.4
(a) Consultants'
(including auditors'           4,800,000        8,100,000         8,100,000         8,214,587           171.1
services)
(a) Goods                       500,000          500,000           400,000           551,276            110.3
(4) Unallocated                20,000,000       2,000,000         2,000,000             0
(5) National studies                            9,200,000         7,800,000         3,100,000            33.7
(6) Emergency drugs,
fortified milk and                                               19,000,000        24,317,308           124.3
medical supplies
Total                         100,000,000      100,000,000      100,000,000        100,000,000          100.0

The under spending in the health statistical system under Component B of about 74.3 percent with respect
to the appraised estimates (US$1.3 million equivalent against US$5.05 million equivalent) as well as of the
national nutritional survey under Component D of about 57.2 percent with respect to the estimates set at
the time of the first amendment to the LA (US$3.94 million equivalent against US$9.2 million equivalent)
is mainly explained by the fact that the estimates were established under a one to one parity, while the
execution was carried under a frame of three to one parity of the Argentinean peso with respect to the US
dollar. In addition, the very late start of both components and their over dimensioning included in the
original design (as already refereed in section 4.2 of the ICR), implied fewer months of spending and a
more simplified and less costly design as originally conceived.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ICR ranks as likely the sustainability of the activities generated by the PROMIN II project for the
following reasons. On the positive side, there appears to be a strong political commitment by the present
national administration and by many provincial authorities to sustain the activities that were launched



                                                    - 22 -

under the project, especially the ones currently feeding into the maternal and child health insurance scheme
and the sexual and reproductive program, namely: (i) the health facilities provided by the project; (ii) the
health delivery model developed and fine tuned under PROMIN II; and (iii) the health information stemming
out of Component B of the project.

The public health works financed under the Project amounting to 1,362 new health facilities and/or
rehabilitations of existing health facilities, are being fully utilized after the closing of the loan and according
to the satisfaction survey recently undertaken, found to be useful by the beneficiaries. Notwithstanding this
achievement, the national and provincial governments still need to adopt an appropriate preventive and
corrective maintenance policy at the jurisdictional level and a concerted plan and budget to ensure
long-term sustainability of these facilities.

The sustainability of the health delivery model will largely depend on the ability by the national and
provincial authorities to continue financing the required technical teams, which, during the life of the
project, were mostly constituted by short and long-term consultants financed by the loan.

The medium-term sustainability of the health statistical system supported by Component B of the project is
being hampered by the lack of a national and/or provincial policy for the maintenance and replacement of
the hardware and software acquired by this investment. Under this possible scenario, the hardware will
become obsolete in less than 10 years and the timely and reliable updating of the required health
information will become harder to achieve.

The ICR team learned that the 2006 approved national budget (Fuente 11) includes financial resources to
partially sustain the social dissemination and acquisition of contraceptive devices required in the sexual and
reproductive health program.         However, Argentina is not yet in a position to assume full financial
responsibility of the acquisition of these devices and other medical supplied in the short-term horizon, and
therefore, projects like the IDB-financed Remediar operation, are bridging this need on a recurrent
declining basis Every passing year of the implementation of Remediar, the Argentinean Government is assuming
a larger percentage of the total recurrent costs of these acquisitions..

Finally, this likely sustainability will depend on the future overall macroeconomic situation of Argentina
and the National as well as Provincial Governments' ability to continue providing the required recurrent
and investment resources.

Sustainability Component E:
As part of the phasing out of the Emergency Program, the Federal government and Provinces have assumed
the procurement of the inputs financed by this component. However, as in the previous components the
sustainability depends on the overall macroeconomic situation of the country and the capacity to sustain for
the long term the financing these inputs with fiscal resources outside the scope of the status of Emergency
that permitted the Federal government to introduce drastic changes in financing and procurement of inputs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the time of the first amendment to the LA, great effort was invested by the Borrower to minimize the
parallelism existing between the externally financed project activities and the locally-financed ongoing
mainstream related activities. The merging of these two sets of related health activities since 2001 has
smoothed the transition arrangements to regular operations, especially of the health delivery model and the
sexual and reproductive tasks financed by the Loan.




                                                          - 23 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
PROMIN II was a follow up of PROMIN I which was approved by the Board on August 3, 1993, made
effective in October 27, 1993 and closed on March 31, 2000. Notwithstanding that the identification of
PROMIN II took place during the second semester of 1995, the first formal preparation mission was carried
out in October 7, 1996 corresponding to the start of the mid implementation cycle of PROMIN I and after
the Project Concept Document (PCD) was reviewed by Bank Management on October 1st, 1996,.

The original design of PROMIN II was very similar to the previous operation, except, as mentioned earlier
in the ICR: (i) it included a mid-term review of all subprojects to be financed under the loan as a condition
for subsequent disbursements; (ii) undisbursed balances of poorly performing subprojects were to be
transferred to a common fund to which better performing Provinces would have access; (iii) the health
delivery model was further fine tuned; and (iv) an early childhood development model, including the
training of parents, was also included.

For all of the above reasons, no major project preparation issues arose during the lending phase which
moved quickly and smoothly. After the PCD review meeting in October 1996 and one preparation mission
during the same month, the proposal was appraised in December 2, 1996, negotiated in March 3, 1997,
approved by the Board on May 15, 1997 and the Loan declared effective on November 14, 1997.

As mentioned in section 3.5 of the ICR, a; though that the quality at entry was, by and large, satisfactory,
the following four project preparation shortcomings were detected by the ICR team: (i) the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements were not sufficiently ready for most of the output indicators included in Annex 1
of the PAD; (ii) no baseline information nor mid-term benchmarks were specified at appraisal; (iii) no
experimental design, including a comparable control group, was considered at the onset of project
implementation to measure the impact of this operation; and (iv) an unrealistic large number of health
indicators were originally included in Component B.

Balancing the merits and the shortfalls mentioned above, the ICR team rates as satisfactory the
performance of the Bank at the lending stage.

7.2 Supervision:
It took almost 6 months after Board approval (May 15, 1997) for the loan to become effective (November
14, 1997). This short delay for effectiveness was mainly caused by the issuing of the Presidential Decree
required for the signing of the loan and some legal agreements that needed to be entered between the Nation
and the first set of participating provinces. This Project was subjected to a total of 23 field supervision
missions during the life of the loan as detailed in Annex 4 of the ICR, including one mid-term review
(February 26, 2001). On average, three field supervision missions were carried out annually during the
eight-year life span of this project. The diverse supervision missions seem to have included the appropriate
skill-mix to carry out their envisaged terms of reference. The day-to-day supervision of this operation
benefited from the presence of sector-related Bank staff in the office of Buenos Aires. The project
electronic files include 19 Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and/or ISRs, implying that there is not
necessarily a one-to-one correspondence between field supervision missions and reports.

A total of seven task team leaders (TTLs) were in charge of the lending and supervision of this Project with
an average tenure of about one year five months each. From the reading of the project files it appears that,
despite the large number of TTLs assigned to this operation, needed continuity was largely achieved among



                                                    - 24 -

them.

Some of the ratings given in the earlier PSRs were overly optimistic and not strongly supported with
evidence, beyond the fact that the two PROMINs were looked as one investment with two different sources
of financing (the two Loans). Therefore, the argument used by the then TTL was, that if the first PROMIN
showed a satisfactory implementation progress, the rating should also be applied to the second loan as well.
One example of this situation is the rating of the PSR #6 of September 1999 which shows no significant
implementation progress with respect to the previous PSR of the mission of April 1999 (sequence number
5), yet the rating of implementation progress was increased from S to HS. These overly optimistic ratings
were flagged by the then sector leader stationed in the Bank's office in Buenos Aires who requested in his
management comments further argumentation justifying the rankings allocated by the TTL in subsequent
supervision reports.

The ICR team noticed a less than satisfactory supervision effort in 1999 as likely due to over-programming
of responsible staff. This overload resulted, by and large, in a cursory supervision performance. In
particular, as noticed by the newly appointed task team leader in January 2000, poor monitoring by the
Bank and the PCU during 1999 overlooked that PROMIN II overcommitted unavailable loan proceeds by
about US$20 million from the loan (already discounting the US$20 million of unallocated resources) to
execute approved provincial sub-projects. This management oversight created tensions between the
Borrower and the Bank and between the national implementation agency and the provincial authorities that
felt entitled to the corresponding non-existent loan resources authorized by the Borrower on their approved
sub-projects. It took about one year - all of 2000 - to solve this serious implementation issue by reviewing
and restructuring some approved sub-projects and suspending and canceling others.

As highlighted by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the supervision of this project on
September 22, 2004, the Bank supervision teams displayed, especially starting in 2000, consistent
pro-active and positive responses to the health issues, in particular, declining outcomes on infant mortality
and maternal health that arose during the economic crisis during the period 2000-2002. Starting in 2000,
the various TTLs assigned to this operation displayed appropriate sensitivity and flexibility to adjust the
project to the existing contextual changes leading to the two amendments to the LA and to the two
extensions of closing dates. The QAG rated the supervision of the project as highly satisfactory for the
period covered by this review 2000-2004.

During the mid-term review of February 2001, initial discussions leading to the two amendments to the LA
were carried out. Accordingly, the shortages of medicines and other health-related supplies were addressed
by introducing an emergency component as part of a restructuring strategy to make PROMIN II fully
responsive to the socio-economic crisis.      Also, during this review, the complaints of the Borrower
concerning delays of about 17 working days for the Bank granting the no-objections to procurement
requests was also satisfactorily addressed.

As the country began slowly to come out of the economic crisis, the Bank supervision teams centered their
attention from mid-2003 onwards on: (i) the appropriate implementation of the emergency program; (ii) the
increasing disbursement and addressing key implementation bottlenecks, like for example, the ones
generated by the UFI and explained in section 5.3 of the ICR; (iii) assisting the Government on opening of
the market for drugs to effectively reduce their prices; (iv) ensuring appropriate support for the
implementation of the sexual and reproductive health program; (v) bridging the long-term issue of maternal
and child health insurance plan; and (vi) ensuring a timely and orderly closure of the Loan. The response by
the Bank team was deemed to be strategic and timely, focusing on the health priorities of Argentina as they
evolved and helping the health authorities, through policy dialogue, get out of the crisis mode characteristic


                                                    - 25 -

of the first years of this decade.

Procurement was initally handled by the Country office and later transferred to HQ. This meant that more
than one procurement specialist was also responsible during project implementation. This project was
subjected to two random ex-post procurement reviews, and two independent procurement reviews, finding
no major issues on procurement related matter. However these included various observations related to the
poor planning, inadequate technical specifications and terms of reference, lack of control during contract
execution, inadequate filing system, lack of contractors/providers/consultants participation on bidding
processes, delays in the execution and process of the plan, and lack of procurement experience of the staff
dealing with it. After the changes in the organization, which included the creation of the UFI-S and the
inception of the Emergency Health Program, procurement improved, even though some delays in bidding
processes persisted.

The Bank team played a very important role in advising and working with the health authorities to
undertake high volume procurement and to seek lower prices of pharmaceutical supplies. As a result of this
effort, prices of medicines and other health-related supplies decreased by an average of 30 percent.

Several in-depth financial management reviews were undertaken by the Bank supervision team finding
compliance with Bank requirements. Task team work and recommendations on financial management
issues were appropriate and led to timely resolutions.        The project also benefited from the Country
Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) for Argentina held every three months during the economic crisis,
and now being carried out every semester.

The project was Category B with respect to environmental risks. The supervision team regularly monitored
compliance with the regulations and appropriate procedures for handling and managing medical waste.
Numerous field visits attested to this compliance.

The reading of the project files seem to indicate that there was a good working rapport between the Bank
and the Borrower, especially during the last years. The Bank teams also worked closely with the IDB
members working in the area of emergency response and maternal health issues, as well as with PAHO and
United Nations teams working in the sexual and reproductive health program.

One significant shortfall concerns the lack of information on key performance indicators in the first thirteen
PSRs as mentioned before in the ICR. This implies that for six years, out of the eight that lasted the
implementation cycle of this operation, the Bank supervision teams acted more in an input and
process-related fashion, rather than in an output and outcome one. Current Bank management practices
assign high priority on the periodic reporting on outputs, outcome and impacts by the supervision teams
overseeing the implementation of Bank-financed portfolio in all sectors. The ICR team recognizes the
concerted effort by the Bank supervision teams over the past two years to show the trend of the revised
outcome indicators, in particular the IMR.

Weighting the above supervision strengths and few weaknesses, the ICR team rates the Bank supervision
performance as satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above lending and supervision observations and ratings, the ICR rates the overall Bank
performance as satisfactory.




                                                     - 26 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation process benefited from the leadership of an organized, qualified and fully staffed technical
counterpart in the PCU of PROMIN I, and to certain extent, from some of the UEPs in participating
Provinces. The senior layer of technical personnel of the PROMIN II preparation team was, by and large,
the same that had participated in the implementation of the previous operation. Thus, the preparation team
had ample experience with Bank operations, procedures, especially in procurement and financial
management, and expectations. The technical continuity of the teams and their leadership provided an
environment conducive to learning that supported the fine-tuning of project design as the preparation
progressed.

As mentioned before, no major project preparation issues arose during the lending process beyond the ones
already described in section 3.5 and 7.1 of this ICR. Accordingly, the ICR team is of the view that the
Borrower's performance at the lending stage ranks as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
PROMIN II was executed by the MSAS (relabeled MS at the time of the administration of President de la
Rua and renamed again MSA during the current administration of President Kirchner) through the same
PCU in charge of PROMIN I assisted by provincial and municipal executing units (UEPs and UEMs). The
general PCU coordinator was directly accountable to the Vice-Minister of Health within the MSAS.
Coordinators of the UEPs were appointed by the Provincial Governments.

The original six-year implementation period (November 14, 1997 to December 31, 2003) was increased to
eight years (to December 31, 2005) and transcended five Government administrations (Presidents Menem,
De la Rua, Rodriguez Sáa, Duhalde and Kirchner).

With the exception of 1998 and 2001 registering sluggish documented disbursements of about US$6
million per year (including the initial deposit to the Special Account of about US$2.56 million), the
remaining implementation years displayed annual disbursements exceeding the US$10 million mark. In
particular, in 2004 the documented disbursement amounted to US$15.1 million and in 2005 US$19.4
million, explained by the good project implementation performance of the emergency program. The
disbursements of the crisis years 2000 to 2002 reflect more the inertia of ongoing contracted activities,
especially public works, than the undertaking of new ones.

Section 5.2 of this report describes in more detail the six factors, subject to government control that
hindered the implementation process from being more effective. As the first negative effects of the
economic crisis started appearing in mid-1999, initial budget cuts were made by the Ministry of Economy
to approved budgets and severe restrictions undertaken with respect to the release of counterpart funding.
The PSRs of these years (2000 to the end of 2003) reflect an upgrading from moderate to high in the risk of
not having sufficient funds to finance recurrent costs and to allocate them in a timely fashion. As the
allocation of counterpart funding resumed a normal pace, this risk was downgraded to moderate during the
supervisions of 2003 onwards.

The financial management supervisions as well as the (untimely) audits carried out in 1998 and 1999
reflect that the Ministry of Health incorrectly utilized about US$3.1 million of loan proceeds allocated in
the Special Account during this period as part of their counterpart funding share. This amount was repaid
back to the Bank in 2000 and 2001. The untimely Audit Reports prepared by the AGN for 1998, 1999 and
2000 were qualified, showing, among other issues, incorrect utilization of loan proceeds by the PCU and
financial issues with some provinces. Internal financial control failures of the Project at the national,



                                                     - 27 -

provincial and municipal levels were detected by the Audit report of 2002, received by the Bank 8 months
after the due date. This report also highlighted the no compliance with the signing of an agreement with
PAHO for the provision of health supplies included in the emergency program.

Weighting the positives and the shortfalls mentioned-above, the ICR team ranks the Government
implementation performance as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PCU had a total of nine coordinators during the life of the Project including the lending phase which
coincided with the implementation of PROMIN I.            The ICR field mission interacted with the newly
appointed Director de Salud Materno Infantil of the MSA Appointed less than one week before the start of the
field ICR mission in May 2-5, 2006., resulting in the tenth different higher level staff responding for PROMIN
II. This high turnover in the managing of the Project, some with tenures of six months or less, impeded a
more effective implementation and continuity.

As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, the delays in signing agreements between the Ministry of Health (MS)
and the participating Provinces slowed down project implementation and loan disbursements during 1988.
It took until the last quarter of 1998 for project implementation to get off the ground.

As mentioned before, the administration of President de la Rua recognized the problems raised by previous
Bank supervisions of an inflated organization and complex workflow at the PCU and in the UEPs resulting
in disjoint groups not working as a team and able to present a systemic view of the status of the different
subprojects. In addition, as explained in section 5.4 of the ICR, administrative costs as percentage of the
total project costs exceeded 12 percent, which was too high compared to international standards
recommending not more than 6 percent. As a result, and coinciding with the economic crisis, a significant
streamlining of the PCU, UEPs and UEPs was undertaken, especially with the respect to the hiring of
consultants. Long-term consulting contracts were replaced by short-term contracts.

The original Operational Manual experienced several changes during the life of the project. These changes
reflected: (i) the merging of the externally-financed and the locally financed health-related activities under
one managerial arrangement at all levels; (ii) the support to the Emergency Health Program; and (iii) the
inclusion of family planning activities under the emergency plan. The health delivery and care model
developed was fine tuned as the implementation progressed.              Maternal and child death audits were
implemented in all participating provinces and the findings fed into the adjustments made to the health
delivery model. The concept of Annual Operative Plans was introduced in the summer of 2001 as a way to
gauge the execution of the project at all levels.

The high turnover of key trained personnel at the PCU, UEPs and UEMs, especially during the worst
periods of the economic crisis in 2001, caused a virtual stand-still in the execution of the project.
Component B of the project, for example, was practically ignored, while Component A showed very slow
implementation progress since the crisis started.

In mid-2003, at the time project implementation resumed a normal pace, all of the project's fiduciary
functions were transferred to the UFI. According to various Back-to-Office reports, it took some time for
the new working arrangements to perform in a satisfactory manner.

As PROMIN II approached its last two years of operation, an Action Plan was developed to bring this
Bank-financed operation to a smooth and timely completion, especially with respect to the sub-projects
under execution or about to be executed under Component A, and to bridge the activities to a non-project



                                                      - 28 -

mode into the mainstream operational structures of the national and provincial ministries of health and the
municipal health authorities. Under this plan, priority was granted to the project's activities in the NOA
and NEA regions of the country.

As part of the Emergency program, the Government launched in early 2004 the Maternal and Child Health
Insurance scheme (Plan Nacer) to provide a package of basic health services for boys and girls under six
years-old, all pregnant women and all puerperal women up to 45 days after delivery who do not have social
security coverage. This insurance scheme was seen as the demand-side of the health equation while
PROMIN II, offering health services, was seen as the supply-side.

The Borrower provided the Bank during the last regular supervision mission of this operation carried out in
December 2005, the findings of the user's survey and of a descriptive study of infant mortality as a
function of socio-economic conditions (both described in section 4.1 of the ICR).

The Bank supervision missions as well as specific evaluation studies that were commissioned by the
Borrower show that the elimination of hospital waste, if not optimal, improved. Notwithstanding this fact,
the issue remains and needs further consideration by the Borrower.

The Borrower acted upon the recommendations made by the various Bank financial management
supervisions to: (i) better reflect the financial and physical implementation progress of approved
sub-projects; (ii) keep updated financial data; and (iii) ensure a more timely delivery of financial
information by the participating provinces.

The ICR recognizes the efforts made by the implementing agency, especially after the end of the severity of
the economic crisis in early 2003 in ensuring the completion of the approved sub-projects, the setting in
motion of the health statistics system and the health nutrition survey, the highly satisfactory performance of
the emergency program and the contracting of different impact evaluation studies. All these efforts seemed
to have paid with better health-related outcomes as explained in section 4.1 of the ICR and full
disbursement of the total loan.

Based on all the above-mentioned observations, the ICR mission rates as satisfactory the performance of
the implementation agency.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on all of the above-mentioned observations, the ICR rates the overall Borrower performance as
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

With respect to the lending process

(a)     Ensuring implementation readiness conditions prior to negotiations as shown in this operation,
leads to a more effective physical and financial execution cycle.

(b)     Crisis response can be more effective and rapid if built upon existing institutions and on-going
portfolio projects. Working within the framework of existing organizational and institutional arrangements
and programs such as PROMIN, VIGIA and UFI-S allowed for the quick consolidation of a knowledgeable
and skilled team and the improvement of institutional capacity to face unforeseen challenges that occur in
such a major crisis. The selection of key personnel able to understand the intricacies of various



                                                    - 29 -

governmental agencies and work effectively with all Bank regulations and guidelines was central to the
achievement of the objectives of the program.

A crisis can help government open a window of opportunity to introduce public policies in an easier way.
The new reproductive health program had already been developed but was launched during the crisis to
take advantage of procurement and distribution logistics already in place that could reach a broader
population than originally planned for in the first stages of the program.. Enforcing competitive practices
and exploring new mechanisms for the procurement of inputs can have long-lasting effects on the price of
goods such as pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies. A centralized purchaser with a demand for
larger quantities leads national and international bidders to keep lower prices while new national and
international competitors are interested in the procurement process.

(c)      Set up appropriate evaluation criteria at the outset. PROMIN II lacked an appropriate impact
evaluation scheme to make inferences about the contribution or causal link between Project activities and
outcome indicators. It is highly recommendable in future operations to ensure from the onset of project
implementation: (i) a statement of expected developmental objectives; (ii) agreement with the Borrower on
a set of impact indicators; (iii) agreement on impact evaluation methodology; (iv) a baseline data; (v)
agreement on a collection protocol and an algorithm to analyze and periodically update the impact
indicators information; (vi) agreement on the periodicity of updating the information; and (vii) agreement
on a strategy to disseminate impact findings.

With respect to the implementation phase

(d)      It is recommended that procurement surpevision should be carried out at least once a year.
Even if findings on different audits received by the project showed no major issues on procurement The
various observations related to the poor planning, inadequate technical specifications and terms of
reference,    lack  of   control   during    contract  execution,   inadequate   filing  system,    lack   of
contractors/providers/consultants participation on bidding processes, delays in the execution and process of
the plan, and lack of procurement experience of the staff dealing with it, particularly evident in the period
before the UFI-s; demonstrated the need of a permanent procurement supervision carried out at least once
a year, which could contribute to the positive environment of transparency required for a satisfactory
procurement.

(e)      Setting of transparent personnel selection criteria and procedures are likely to increase project
execution efficiency and effectiveness resulting in lower administrative costs and probably less frequent
changes of key technical and managerial staff

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Performance of the Bank

The World Bank demonstrated remarkable flexibility in adjusting the program to important changes that
occurred during project implementation. This included external socioeconomic and political changes as well
as institutional changes in the area of infant mortality. In particular, the World Bank demonstrated its
flexibility in responding to "la Emergencia Sanitaria", supporting the decisions and policies defined by the
Government.

The World Bank demonstrated an important capacity to be innovative in developing strategies to address



                                                    - 30 -

specified themes and new lines of action.

Through the entire period of the project, the World Bank maintained a constant dialogue with Government
counterparts, facilitating the implementation and performance of the project.

Despite the fact that disbursement frequency varied during the project, 100% of the budget was disbursed
by the end of the project. The World Bank facilitated this by allowing for an extension of the project,
without which, total disbursement would not have been possible.

In some cases there were delays in the processing of procurement requests and No Objection letters.
However, all delays were ultimately resolved satisfactorily.

Performance of the Ministry of Health

The MOH demonstrated an important capacity to be innovative in developing strategies to address
specified themes and new lines of action.

Through the entire period of the project, the Ministry of Health maintained constant dialogue with World
Bank counterparts, facilitating the implementation and performance of the project.

The fusion of the program with the National Directorate of Maternal and Infant Health was a key
achievement which brought sustainability to the project at the National and Provincial levels.

The transfer in the administration of UFIs created temporary difficulties; however, these were solved,
allowing the program authorities to recover its focus aiming their efforts to the technical issues.

UFIs performance was a key factor for the program success. The implementation of the UFI model allowed
the remarkable increase verified in the execution performance.

Overall performance

Based on the achievements of the project, and the remarkable flexibility and immediate reaction of both
Minister of Health and the Bank during the Emergency period, this Project has been considered by the
Government as Highly Satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Outcome / Impact Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR1               Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase from 658 to 1250 the number                     1172                                  1,362
of health facilities and child                      (12/31/2001)                           (12/31/2004)
development centers
Increase to 60 percent the share of                   44 percent                           85.8 percent
women receiving maternal prenatal                   (12/31/1994)
care
Increase to 60 percent the share of                   51 percent                           72 percent
children aged 0-6 receiving health care             (12/31/1994)
Increase to 80 percent the proportion                 65 percent                           90.8 percent
of children fully vaccinated                        (12/31/1994)



Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR1               Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduce the number of hospital                        9.4 percent                            8.9 percent
discharges by abortion of women from                (12/31/2004)
10 to 49 years old, in comparison to
year 2000
Increase the number of health facilities 56 facilities programmed and zero    Increased by 24 facilities, from 56 at
renovated and with maternal and                  under construction          the start of the project to 80 at the end
health equipment functioning under                  (01/05/2004)
PROMIN's project, including the
NOA and NEA regions
User satisfaction survey in selected     21.47 percent very satisfied; 44.56 Information provided in section 4.1 of
health facilities under PROMIN's           percent satisfied; 8.5 percent                     the ICR
model                                      unsatisfied; and 2.76 percent
                                                   very unsatisfied
                                                    (12/31/2001)

1End of project




                                                       - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

    Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
                          Component                            US$ million          US$ million
(1) Subprojects                                                 69,900,000          62,624,188           89.6
  (a) goods (except drugs and food)                             11,400,000           9,381,469              82.3
  (b) works                                                     45,500,000          31,585,123              69.4
   (c) Consultants' services and training                       13,000,000          21,657,596              166.6
(2) MSAS's Statistical System                                   4,800,000            1,192,639           24.8
   (a) Goods                                                    3,200,000             578,016               18.1
   (b) Consultants' services                                    1,600,000             614,623               38.8
(3) Project Administration                                      5,300,000            8,765,863              165.4
(a) Consultants' (including auditors' services)                 4,800,000            8,214,587              171.1
(a) Goods                                                         500,00             551,276                110.3
(4) Unallocated (includes physical and price contingencies)     20,000,000               0
(5) National studies                                                                 3,100,000              33.7
(6) Emergency drugs, fortified milk and medical supplies                            24,317,308              124.3
Total                                                          100,000,000          100,000,000             100.0
* With respect to US$9.2 millions allocated to Category of Expenditure (5) at the time of the first amendment to
the LA on 07/30/2001.
** With respect to US$19 millions allocated at Category of Expenditure (6) at the time of the second amendment
to the LA on 04/19/2002.



 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                               Procurement       Method1
    Expenditure Category             ICB          NCB             Other2            N.B.F.        Total Cost

         Civil Works                               61.7             2.0              15.2             78.9
                                                  (61.7)           (2.0)             (0.0)           (63.7)
        Goods: drugs                                                                 13.4             13.4
                                                                                     (0.0)            (0.0)
             Food                                                                    10.7             10.7
                                                                                     (0.0)            (0.0)
   Equipment and vehicles             2.1          6.3              8.0               5.5             21.9
                                     (2.1)        (6.3)            ( 8.0)            (0.0)           (16.4)
          Training                                                  8.0                                8.0
                                                                   (8.0)                              (8.0)
           Salaries                                                                  26.2             26.2
                                                                                     (0.0)            (0.0)
     Technical assistance                           1.6             5.0                                6.6
                                                   (1.6)           (5.0)                              (6.6)
             PCU                                                    5.3                                5.3
                                                                   (5.3)                              (5.3)
             Total                    2.1          69.6            28.31             71.0            171.0
                                     (2.1)        (69.6)          ( 28.3)            (0.0)          (100.00)




                                                    - 33 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                            Procurement Method1
      Expenditure Category          ICB       NCB        Other2      N.B.F.       Total Cost

Goods (except drugs, fortified milk  0.00      6.30       6.32        0.41           13.03
and contraceptive devices)          (0.00)    (5.23)     (5.28)      (0.00)         (10.51)
Drugs, fortified milk and           24.73      0.00       0.12        9.74           34.59
contraceptive devices              (24.20)    (0.00)     (0.12)      (0.00)         (24.32)
Civil works                          0.00     35.05       0.00        1.46           36.51
                                    (0.00)   (31.59)     (0.00)      (0.00)         (31.59)
Consultants other than the PCU,      0.00      0.00       22.27       2.16           24.43
UEPs and UEPs                       (0.00)    (0.00)     (22.27)     (0.00)         (22.27)
Consultants for the PCU, UEPs        0.00      0.00       8.21        1.53            9.75
and UEPs                            (0.00)    (0.00)     (8.21)      (0.00)          (8.21)
Studies                              0.00      2.50       0.60        0.84            3.94
                                    (0.00)    (2.50)     (0.60)      (0.00)          (3.10)
Recurrent costs                      0.00      0.00       0.00        12.27          12.27
                                    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)
  Total                             24.73     43.85       37.52       28.41         134 .51
                                   (24.20)   (39.32)     (36.48)     (0.00)         (100.00)




                                              - 34 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate          Appraisal


                                 Bank            Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF    Bank    Govt.   CoF
                                                                                              .                     .
(1) Subprojects               69,900,000       8,002,640            62,624,188  9,191,921           89.6   114.9
  (a) goods (except drugs
  and food for the Bank)      11,400,000       2,449,274             9,381,469  2,141,701           82.3    87.4
  (b) works                   45,500,000       5,553,366            31,585,123  4,927,951           69.4    88.7
   (c) Consultants' services
and training                  13,000,000            0               21,657,596  2,122,268          166.6    **
(2) MSAS's Statistical
System                         4,800,000       245,800               1,192,639   114,804            24.8    46.7
   (a) Goods                   3,200,000       245,800               578,016      78,976            18.1    32.1
   (b) Consultants' services   1,600,000            0                614,623      35,828            38.8    **
(3) Project
Administration                 5,300,000        82,000               8,765,863  1,832,878          165.4 2,235.2
(a) Consultants' (including
auditors' services)            4,800,000            0                8,214,587  1,533,270          171.1    **
(a) Goods                       500,00          82,000               551,276     299,608           110.3   365.4
(4) Unallocated               20,000,000                                 0
(5) National studies                                0                3,100,000   835,671            33.7    **
(6) Emergency drugs,
fortified milk and medical                    10,405,000            24,317,308 10,276,500          124.3    98.8
supplies
  Recurrent expenditures                      52,264,560                        12,266,386                  23.5
Total                        100,000,000 71,000,000*                100,000,000 34,518,160         100.0    48.6
* From the US$71 million originally allocated by the Borrower, US$46.7 million came from the central
government and $US24.3 million from the Provinces.
** It was not calculated as the allocation at the time of appraisal was zero.
*** With respect to US$9.2 millions allocated to Category of Expenditure (5) at the time of the first amendment to
the LA on 07/30/2001.
**** With respect to US$19 millions allocated at Category of Expenditure (6) at the time of the second amendment
to the LA on 04/19/2002.




                                                         - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not available




                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/20/1995                3    ONE TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             ONE HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             AND ONE PROJECT
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST.
              10/07/1996                3    ONE TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             ONE HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             AND ONE MANAGEMENT
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/02/1996                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             AND HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1).
              03/13/1997                4    LEGAL COUNSEL (1); TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1) AND
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICIAL
                                             (2).

 Supervision
               04/15/1998                    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             AND PROJECT
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1).
              10/18/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); CO         HS              S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH & EDUCATION (1);
                                             MIS/PROJ. IMPLEMENT. (1);
                                             MONITORING & EVALUAT.
                                             (1)
              04/17/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECT
                                             IMPLEMENTATTION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MONITORING & EVALUATI.
                                             SPECIALIST(1)
              09/20/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS              S
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPACT MONITORING
                                             SPECIALIST (1).
              01/24/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1).



                                              - 37 -

03/20/2000            7 SECTOR MANAGER (1);          S    S
(workshop on            TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
health strategies)      HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                        HEALTH ECONOMIST (3).
4/24/2000             5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                        HEALTH ECONOMIST (1); FM
                        SPECIALIST (1);
                        PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                        (1).
10/18/2000            4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1); CO     S    S
                        TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                        TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                        PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                        (1).
Mid-term review       7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
2/26/2001               PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                        (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                        EARLY CHILDHOOD
                        SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                        DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                        (2); FM SPECIALIST (1).
07/30/2001            4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                        (1); EARLY CHILDHOOD
                        SPECIALIST (1); FM
                        SPECIALIST (1).
01/28/2002            3 SOCIAL SECTOR LEADER (1);    S    S
                        TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                        SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                        SPECIALIST (1).
05/21/2002            2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                        SPECIALIST (1);
12/09/2002            4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                        EARLY CHILDHOOD
                        SPECIALIST (1);
                        OPERATIONS ANALYST (1).
03/03/2003            1 FM SPECIALIST (1).           S    S
05/05/2003            4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); FM
                        SPECIALIST (1);
                        OPERATIONS ANALYST (1).
9/29/2003             6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1); CO     S    S
                        TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                        OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); FM
                        SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                        ECONOMIST (1).
02/06/2004            3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                        HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);



                        - 38 -

                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1).
      05/31/2004    6  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                       SOCIAL SECTOR LEADER (1);
                       HEALTH ECONOMIST (2);
                       OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                       FM SPECIALIST (1).
      10/07/2004    11 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                       HEALTH SPECIALIST (5);
                       CIVIL WORKS SPECIALIST
                       (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                       (1); FM SPECIALIST (1),
                       PROGRAM ASSISTANTS (2).
      11/08/2004    3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                       HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                       OPERATIONS ANALYST (1).
      04/04/2005    5  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                       HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                       OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                       (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                       ECONOMIST (1).
      08/11/2005    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                       HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                       CIVIL WORKS SPECIALIST
                       (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                       OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                       (1); SOCIAL
                       COMMUNICATIONS
                       SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                       SECTOR ECONOMIST (1).
      12/13/2005    5  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                       HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                       OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                       (1); REPRESENTATIVE OF
                       THE WBI (HEALTH SECTOR)
                       (1).

ICR
      04/24/2006    2  ONE CONSULTANT AND
                       ONE OPERATIONS
                       SPECIALIST




                       - 39 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                            *                                 *
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                 *                    **107,930.14
  Supervision                                    102.42                        571,139.23
  ICR                                                   3                        16,000.00
  Total                                          103.42                        695,069.37
*Data not available
** This figure includes all aspects of lending (Identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations)




                                                        - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank preparation documents

Argentina Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board May 4, 1995 (Report 14278-AR).

Argentina Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Progress Report discussed by the Board April 25, 1996.

Identification/Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
World Bank. October 7, 1996.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
December 2, 1996.

Project Concept Document (PCN), The World Bank, October 1, 1996.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No 16419-AR. The World Bank, April 24, 1997.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. March 13, 1997.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 4164-AR. The World Bank. Conformed copy September 23, 1997.

Amendments to the Loan Agreements. First amendment approved on June 30, 2001. Second amendment
including the first extension of the closing date approved on April 30, 2002. Second extension of the closing
date approved on July 1, 2004.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters, Project
Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) of all the Supervision Missions recorded in
Annex 4 of this ICR. The World Bank. From April 15, 1998 to December 13, 2005.

Bank and Borrower other project implementation-related documents

Albánez T., Colmenares M. M., and Acuña C. H., Una mirada al PROMIN. Informe de misión de revisión y
análisis externo. Consultores del Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo. Buenos Aires, Argentina,
Noviembre 1998.

Fiszbein A., Giovagnoli P., and Adúriz I., The Argentine health sector in the context of the crisis. Working
Paper N.3/04. The World Bank Office for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay, April 2004.

Bonari D., Becerra M., and Fiszbein A., El Gasto Púb lico en Desarrollo Humano en la Argentina. Working
Paper N.2/02. The World Bank Office for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay, November 2002.

Galiani S., Fernandez M., and Schargrodsky E., Targeted Interventions in Health Care: The Role of Facility
Placement, January 2, 2006.

Gasparini L. and Panadeiros M., Assessing Changes in Targeting in Health and Nutrition Policies: The case


                                                       - 43 -

of Argentina. The World Bank Thematic Group on Health, Nutrition and Population and Poverty. October 28,
2003.
Gestión de Residuos de Establecimientos de Salud Adheridos al Programa.        Informe Final y Anexos.
Ministerio de Salud y Ambiente de la Nación. Octubre 2005.

Informe de Cierre del PROMIN II. Dirección de Nacional de Salud Materno Infantil. Ministerio de Salud y
Ambiente de la Nación. Buenos Aires, Argentina, Diciembre 2005.

Manual Operativo. Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional. Ministerio de Salud de la Nación. Julio 2003.

Panadeiros M,. and Gasparini L., Targeting and Efficiency in Health Policy: The case of Argentina. The
World Bank Thematic Group on Health, Nutrition and Population and Poverty. October 28, 2003.

Poverty and Mortality in the Northwest and Northeast Regions in Argentina. Dirección Materno Infantil del
Ministerio de Salud de la Nación. Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The World Bank. El Sector Salud Argentino: Situación Actual y Opciones para Mejorar su Desempeño. July
21, 2003.




                                                    - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. The Health Emergency Program

Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency Component

1. Introduction

This annex is specifically devoted to the Health Emergency Program (HEP), which was carried out with
funding from various sources. It contains concise and specific information about this program, expanding
and complementing some information available in the ICR of PROMIN II. Also in this annex are the
overall evaluation ratings for the Health Emergency Program.

2. Overall Rating

Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome of the entire emergency project is satisfactory; the
Bank performance rating is satisfactory. The sustainability is rated as satisfactory, and the institutional
development impact is rated as medium.

3. Development Objectives and Design

3.1. General Information

The economic, social and political instability that ensued from Argentina's default on its debt and the
devaluation of its currency caused a serious deterioration of the capacity of the government to sustain key
health interventions for the most vulnerable groups of the population and essential public health services
and programs for the entire country.

Rapidly increasing costs, unemployment, and shrinking health insurance coverage caused a sudden increase
in the demand for health services at public health facilities, which quickly became overburdened. The
Ministries of Health of the provinces and the federal government faced increasing costs, shrinking financial
resources, and the reluctance of traditional providers to deal with governmental organizations. This led to
serious difficulties in procuring key inputs for all types of health services.

This program was a rapid response to the acute deterioration of the delivery of basic social services and
consisted of the restructuring of already existing projects. Therefore, there were no SAR or PAD. The
original objective of the Social Emergency Program and of the health components were described in a
President's Memorandum entitled "Argentina--Proposed Amendment to Restructure the Portfolio to
Support the Finance of the Emergency Program" dated 23 September 2002 (R2002-0189).

Funding for the HEP came from reallocation of funds from two existing operations in the health sector: the
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN ­ Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health
Surveillance and Disease Control Project (VIGIA ­ Loan 4516-AR), and from cost savings from five other
operations of the Bank in Argentina outside the health sector: Provincial Roads Project (Loan 4093-AR),
Flood Protection Project (Loan 4117-AR) Provincial Agriculture Development Project (Loan 4150-AR),
Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project (Loan 4163-AR) and the Higher Education Reform Project (Loan
3921-AR).

Table 1 shows details of the reallocation of funds to provide funding for this program.




                                                      - 45 -

                 Table 1: Allocation of cost savings from the five projects that financed
                       the Health Emergency Program (in thousands of US dollars)


                   Loan            Implementing Original plan          Actual
                                       Project      of allocations   allocations      Variation


          BIRF 3921-AR            VIGIA                  17,600.00      17,600.00             -
                                  PROMIN                       -               -              -

          BIRF 4093-AR            VIGIA                     9,000.0        7,164.5       -1,835.5
                                  PROMIN                    9,000.0       10,835.5        1,835.5

          BIRF 4117-AR            VIGIA                   30,000.0        23,039.1       -6,960.9
                                  PROMIN                    5,000.0       11,960.9        6,960.9

          BIRF 4150-AR            VIGIA                   15,000.0        15,000.0            -
                                  PROMIN                    5,000.0        5,000.0            -

          BIRF 4163-AR            VIGIA                   35,000.0        33,021.5       -1,978.5
                                  PROMIN                  15,000.0        16,978.5        1,978.5

                        TOTAL VIGIA                      106,600.0        95,825.1       -10,774.9

                       TOTAL PROMIN                       34,000.0        44,774.9       10,774.9

                            TOTAL                        140,600.0       140,600.0              0.0



The exceptional circumstances and complex organizational and institutional framework within which the
emergency program was developed required a special implementation design. The implementation design
required aligning various key stakeholders and actors active in the health sector who also participated in the
financing and implementation of the emergency program.

The organizations and teams that were directly or indirectly involved in the emergency response were the
Inter American Development Bank (IADB); the teams of the projects through which the program was
implemented (VIGIA and PROMIN II would be involved in the planning of the inputs required and on the
supervision of the distribution and integration with the corresponding public health programs); the teams of
departments that normally conduct the procurement of pharmaceutical and other medical inputs within the
Ministry of Health; and the team of the International Finance Unit of the Ministry of Health "Unidad de
Financiamiento Internacional ­ Salud" (UFI-S) the specialized unit that provided financial management and
procurement for PROMIN and VIGIA.

3.1. Original Objective

Overall the main objective of the Argentina Social Emergency Program that included interventions in
various sectors other than health, was to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious
impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population. Support was provided to actions in health,
education, nutrition, temporary work, income support and community activities.

As stated in the President's memorandum, the general objective of the health component of the Emergency



                                                    - 46 -

Program (the health interventions financed by the Emergency Program, hereafter called Health Emergency
Program ­ HEP) was to protect the most vulnerable and to maintain essential public health programs.

3.2. Extensions of the closing date

The overall emergency Program was extended once for one year from December 31st 2004 until December
31st 2005.

3.3. Original Components

The HEP consisted of two components that were implemented through the two existing operations in the
health sector.

The Mother and Child and Women's Sexual Reproductive Health Component was implemented through the
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN). This component was designed to ensure the
provision of services related to basic mother and child care and women's reproductive health. It included
material support for functioning of public hospitals network and key health interventions such as prenatal
controls, anemia prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child health care, through
the provision of pharmaceutical products, medical supplies and iron-fortified milk.

The Public Health Programs Component was implemented through the Public Health Surveillance and
Disease Control Project (VIGIA). This component supported the financing of important inputs for
sustaining the following essential public health interventions: immunization programs, functioning of blood
banks network, and disease control and prevention for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, dengue fever,
Chagas disease, and yellow fever.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1. Achievement of Objective

The Emergency Health Program achieved its objectives and the overall performance is rated as satisfactory
.

The health interventions and public health programs implemented by the government were successfully
sustained despite the acute and severe social and financial crisis of the past five years.

The financing of key inputs for delivering basic health services to women and children and disease and
control programs thus provided support to the government's efforts to protect the poorest and most
vulnerable groups of the population from the worst effects of the macroeconomic shock in the health
sector.

Graphs 1 to 4 show the evolution of poverty, children's mortality rates, financing of public health services
with fiscal and disbursement of health sector loan resources in the years previous to and during the
implementation of the HEP.




                                                    - 47 -

          Graph 1: Evolution of poverty and indigence rates in Argentina 1990 ­ 2003




                                     Source: PROMIN II Final Report


Graph 2: Evolution of infant, neonatal and postnatal mortality rates in Argentina 1990 - 2004

30




       25.6
25            24.7

                     23.9
                            22.9   22     22.2

                                                  20.9
20
                                                        18.8     19.1

                                                                        17.6
                                                                               16.6           16.8
                                                                                      16.3            16.5
       15.6   14.9
15                   14.8
                            14.1  13.9    13.6
                                                                                                            14.4
                                                  12.7
                                                         11.4    11.7
                                                                        11.3   10.9    10.6   11.3  10.5

10     9.4    9.3
                     8.7    8.4
                                   7.6    8.1                                                               9.7
                                                  7.9
                                                         7.0     7.4
                                                                        6.3    5.7     5.6    5.6   5.9

 5
                                                                                                            4.6




 0
    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998   1999   2000    2001   2002    2003   2004

                                              IMR      NMR         PNMR




                                                    - 48 -

              Graph 3: Federal and provincial expenditures for all the health sector for the provision
                  of health care services in public facilities (in millions of Argentinean Pesos of 2001)

7.500

7.000

6.500

6.000

5.500

5.000

4.500

4.000

3.500

3.000

2.500

2.000

1.500

1.000

  500

    0
        1990     1991       1992       1993    1994     1995       1996      1997    1998        1999        2000    2001        2002       2003

             Total Health Sector Fed. Gov.        Fed. Gov. Health Care Serv.     Total health sector Prov Gov    Health care Serv. Prov. Gov




                                          Source for Graphs 2 and 3: PROMIN II Final Report


                        Graph 4: Disbursement of health sector loans Argentina 1995 ­ 2005
                                                 (in millions of Argentinean Pesos)


     600




     500

                                                                                                                         "REMEDIAR"
                                                                                                                            Program
     400



                                                                                                                    AIDS and STD
     300                                                                                                                Program



     200
                                                                                                            Immunizations and VIGIA


     100

                                                                                                                       PROMIN

      0

       1995        1996            1997       1998          1999           2000        2001             2002        2003            2004         2005




                                                   Source: PROMIN II Final Report




                                                                       - 49 -

4.2. Outputs

The program achieved its objective by supporting the federal government's efforts to sustain the health
services and programs through the procurement and distribution of key inputs, including inter alia
vaccines, pharmaceuticals and supplies for child delivery and perinatal health care iron-enriched milk for
pregnant women and children less than one-year old, contraceptives and other medical inputs for women's
reproductive health, condoms, antiretrovirals, reagents for HIV related diagnostic tests and analysis,
reagents and supplies for blood banks, inputs for vector control, etc.

The original targets for outputs were very rough estimates due to factors stemming from the socioeconomic
crisis that Argentina faced in the period of planning, and design of HEP. These factors included sudden
changes in administration, lack of consistent hard data at the national level, and changes in prices and
operation costs.

The use of new purchasing mechanisms (vaccines via PAHO) and enforcement of new rules of procurement
and distribution logistics in compliance with Bank rules, such as international competitive bids, lowered
prices and in some cases the original targets could be surpassed to respond to the actual demand of
services. For instance, almost 8 million doses of anti-tuberculosis vaccine (BCG) had already been
distributed and ministered by 2004 which represents 4.5 million more than the original target. Combined
anti-retroviral drug treatments were purchased, distributed and timely received by 19,500 individuals, when
the original target was only 17,000 individuals. Roughly 1.3 million pregnant women and children younger
than one year old benefited from fortified milk, which was 280 percent above the original coverage target.

The total list of procured goods and the corresponding financing sources can be found in the next two
tables. Table No. 2 shows a summary description of the total amount of goods and services and Table No.
3 presents the disbursements made from each source for the activities financed by HEP.




                                                    - 50 -

Table 2: Description of procured goods and amount financed by source of funding and implementing
     agency and estimated total amounts before closing the project (Expressed in US dollars)

  Provincial Agriculture Development Project Loan - 4150-AR


      Project        Bidding
                      No.                                Input procured                      Amount Financed

  PROMIN           LPI 007-03 Fortified Milk                                                    5,000,000.00
  Subtotal PROMIN                                                                               5,000,000.00
                   LIL V1-
                  2003         Laboratory Reagents for HIV/AIDS                                 3,581,343.00

      VIGIA        LIL V3-
                  2004         Laboratory Reagents for HIV/AIDS                                  123,105.00
                   LPI V1-
                  2003         Antiretrovirals and other pharmaceuticals for HIV/AIDS          11,295,552.00
  Subtotal VIGIA                                                                               15,000,000.00


  TOTAL                                                                                        20,000,000.00


  Provincial Roads Project Loan - 4093-AR

   Implementing
      Project         Bid                                Input procured                      Amount Financed

                   LPI 007-03 Fortified Milk                                                     6,355,842.00
     PROMIN        LPI 008-03 Reproductive Health                                                2,498,515.42
                   LPI 017-04 Fortified Milk                                                     1,981,000.00
  Subtotal PROMIN                                                                               10,835,357.42
                   LIL V2-     Laboratory Reagents for Blood Banks
      VIGIA       2004                                                                           4,893,809.00
                   LIL V3-
                  2004         Laboratory Reagents for HIV/AIDS                                  2,147,631.00
  Subtotal VIGIA                                                                                 7,041,440.00


  TOTAL                                                                                        17,876,797.42


  Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project Loan - 4163-AR

   Implementing
      Project         Bid                                Input procured                      Amount Financed

                   LPI 007-03 Fortified Milk                                                    13,530,969.54
     PROMIN        LPI 006-03 Pharmaceuticals and supplies for mother and child health care      1,002,824.63
                   LPI 017-04 Fortified Milk                                                     2,344,591.68
  Subtotal PROMIN                                                                               16,878,385.85
                   LIL 002-02 Antiretrovirals and other pharmaceuticals for HIV/AIDS             1,787,238.00
                  OPS          Vaccines and BCG                                                 28,861,033.00
      VIGIA        LIL 01-
                  2002         Laboratory Reagents for Blood Banks                                205,994.00
                   LIL V2-
                  2004         Laboratory Reagents for Blood Banks                               2,167,187.00
  Subtotal VIGIA                                                                                33,021,452.00


  TOTAL                                                                                         49,899,837.85




                                                         - 51 -

      Table No. 3: Annual and total disbursements for the HEP by source of funding (Loans) and
                         by project through which the program was implemented
                                  (Expressed in thousands of US dollars)


  SOURCE OF
   FUNDING        Amounts       2002         2003       2004      2005      2006       TOTAL       BALANCE
    (LOAN)




BIRF 3921-AR        17,600.00    2,000.0         -      15,600.0      -         -       17,600.0           -
                          -          -           -          -         -         -           -              -


BIRF 4093-AR           7,164.5   1,200.0         -          -     5,964.5       -        7,164.5           -
                     10,835.5      800.0         -       6,708.5  3,195.7     -125.7    10,578.5         257.0

BIRF 4117-AR         23,039.1   22,500.0         -         539.1      -         -       23,039.1           -
                     11,960.9    2,000.0         -       4,984.3  4,976.6     -251.5    11,709.4         251.5


BIRF 4150-AR         15,000.0    2,000.0     10,000.0    2,000.0  1,000.0       -       15,000.0           -
                       5,000.0       -           -       5,000.0     225.2    -637.8     4,587.4         412.6

BIRF 4163-AR         33,021.5    1,200.0     29,068.3    1,752.1  1,001.1       -       33,021.5           -
                     16,978.5      800.0         -      14,487.7  2,234.0     -783.8    16,737.9         240.6


  TOTAL VIGIA        95,825.1    28,900.0    39,068.3   19,891.2   7,965.6       0.0    95,825.1            0.0

 TOTAL PROMIN        44,774.9     3,600.0         0.0   31,180.5  10,631.5  -1,798.8    43,613.2        1,161.7


     TOTAL          140,600.0    32,500.0    39,068.3   51,071.7  18,597.1  -1,798.8   139,438.3        1,161.7




5. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

One of the most important factors that enhanced the implementation and outcome of this project was the
use of existing arrangements for procurement and financial management of the health projects that were
being implemented at the time of the development of the HEP. In close coordination with all the
stakeholders and actors of the sector, the centralized unit for procurement and financial management
(UFI-S) of the Ministry of Health had to become rapidly acquainted with the Bank's procedures and
changing market conditions in order to support HEP with the acquisition of the required inputs. After an
initial steep learning curve, UFI-S, along with the teams from PROMIN, VIGIA and all the other
departments from the Ministry of Health, was able to comply with all the regulations of the Bank to
procure, contract and monitor the nationwide distribution of an unprecedented amount and scope of inputs
organized in a centralized way.

Another factor that affected positively the implementation and final outcomes was the proactive initiative of
the Ministry of Health to build a consensus among the provincial governments for a quick response to the
crisis and to operationalize the governmental response to protect the most vulnerable groups of the entire
population. This provincial cooperation allowed the program to overcome the challenges that a centralized




                                                     - 52 -

organization posed to project implementation in all provinces, not merely only in those where the Bank's
projects (PROMIN and VIGIA) were previously active.

Among the negative factors that implementation of the project faced initially were those related to
uncertainty about socio-economic and political changes, which caused various problems in the markets for
the provision of pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies.
For instance, uncertainty about potential further devaluation of the currency and the fact that many
provinces resorted to various forms of issuing alternative ways of payment ("patacones") increased the
reluctance of national and international providers to engage in commercial transactions with public
organizations.

The strong reluctance of providers to deal not only with cash-strapped governments but with public
organizations that did not have access to traditional mechanisms of credit for acquisition of inputs was
surmounted only with the backing of multilateral organizations that provided the Ministry of Health with
access to hard currency and with the reputation for transparency and regularity of payments of
international organizations such as the UNDP.

Various factors and mechanisms for acquisition of vaccines and drugs diminished the price of the inputs
acquired. Some of these factors were: the purchasing of vaccines through PAHO, the introduction of
mandatory prescribing and acquisition of generic instead of brand-name drugs, and the expansion of the
scope of interest bidders beyond national providers.

6. Sustainability

The government of Argentina, in coordination with the Bank, developed various mechanisms for phasing
out the emergency program.

§       Starting in fiscal year 2004, all the key inputs for public health interventions previously supported
by the HEP were gradually transferred to the government financial responsibility. For instance, the
government currently finances the purchase of vaccines as it did before the period of crisis. Currently all
programs are financed by the government.
§       In close coordination with the federal government, the provincial governments have been
progressively taking on responsibility for procuring inputs for disease prevention and control (vector
control). In fact, several provinces began this process before the end of the HEP.
§       The government is currently preparing a project with the Bank for increasing the efficiency and
efficacy of the financing, procurement and distribution of key inputs for essential public health programs.




                                                     - 53 -

- 54 -

