Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4164-AR
Loan Agreement
(Second Maternal and Child Health
and Nutrition Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4164-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
Page  2
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Dación de Leche Program" means the milk supplement program established 
under the Borrower’s law no. 2341/37;
(b)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the performance and impact indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;
(c)
"MSAS" means Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Health and Social Action;
(d)
"Municipal Agreement" means an agreement between a Province (as defined 
hereinafter) and a Municipality (as defined hereinafter) referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"Municipality" means any municipality (other than the City of Buenos 
Aires) within a Province (as defined hereinafter) selected to carry out a Subproject 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined hereinafter);
(f)
"Operational Manual" means the manuals furnished by the Borrower to the 
Bank under letter dated February 20, 1997, setting forth the eligibility criteria and 
the rules and procedures for the preparation, selection, execution, supervision and 
monitoring of Subprojects (as defined hereinafter);
(g)
"PCU" means the Project coordinating unit (unidad coordinadora del 
programa) established pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 443 dated 
March 16, 1993;
(h)
"Province" means any of the Borrower’s provinces (including, for purposes 
of this definition, the City of Buenos Aires as well);
(i) 
"Provincial Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower, through 
MSAS, and a Province referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
"Subproject" means any of the projects carried out or to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project and approved in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.05 of this Agreement;
(l)
"UEM" means Unidad Ejecutora Municipal, a Project executing unit 
established at the municipal level; and
(m)
"UEP"  means Unidad Ejecutora Provincial, a Project executing unit 
established at the provincial level.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December  31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on January 
15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through 
MSAS: 
(i)
carry out Parts B and C of the Project, and 
(ii)
cause, pursuant to the Provincial Agreements, the Provinces to 
carry out the Subprojects or to have them carried out by the 
Municipalities (reserving to the Borrower, if deemed convenient by 
the Borrower and the Province and as set forth in the relevant 
Provincial Agreement, the carrying out of minor components of the 
Subprojects when such components would benefit from the economies 
of scale resulting from Borrower execution),
all with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, financial, health, nutrition and environmental practices and the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of the carrying out of the  Subprojects, the Borrower, 
through MSAS, shall enter into agreements with the Provinces (the Provincial 
Agreements) and, if Subprojects are to be carried out by Municipalities, shall cause 
the Provinces to enter into agreements with the Municipalities (the Municipal 
Agreements), all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and which shall 
include those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out its obligations and exercise its rights 
under the Provincial Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the 
Provincial Agreements or any provision thereof and shall not allow a Province to 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Municipal Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through the PCU: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six  months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain the PCU with the responsibility of assisting the Borrower, the 
Provinces and the Municipalities in the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
keep the PCU staffed with professionals with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required by the PCU to carry out its functions and to discharge its 
responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.05. (a)  The Borrower, through the PCU, shall in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual:
(i)
approve Subprojects estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less 
and forward the relevant documentation to the Bank for 
Page  5
information; and
(ii)
forward to the Bank for its approval the relevant documentation 
for all Subprojects estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent after said Subprojects have been approved by the PCU.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the relevant 
documentation to be forwarded to the Bank shall include: 
(i)
an appraisal of the Subproject and a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan;
(ii)
a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the criteria 
and requirements set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank may reasonably request in 
respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project:
(a)
cause the PCU to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Bank semestral reports on the physical and financial 
status of the Subprojects, including the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, not later than October 31 of each year, a progress 
report on the execution of the Project  during the previous twelve month period, said 
report to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request and to 
include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section;
(d)
 furnish to the Bank, not later than one month before the mid-term review 
referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section, a report, of such scope and detail as 
the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project since its beginning, including the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; and
(e)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, in the 36th month after the Effective 
Date or promptly after one-half of the Loan amount has been disbursed, whichever 
occurs first, a mid-term review of the progress of the Project and the attainment of 
its objectives on the basis of the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this 
Section, and shall, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Subprojects 
shall be carried out by the Provinces and, when applicable, by the Municipalities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof; and shall cause the Provinces (and through the Provinces, when 
applicable, the Municipalities) to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Subprojects of such Provinces and Municipalities.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the parties to any Provincial Agreement or any Municipal Agreement 
has failed to perform any of its obligations under any such agreement; and
(b)
the  Operational Manual, or any provision thereof, has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to 
permit the procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date December 23, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  7
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
  y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Humberto Amalio Petrei
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
HONORARY WITNESS
  FOR ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Alberto José Mazza
Minister of Health and Social Action
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
   Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be
Category
   Dollars)
     Financed
(1)
Subprojects under
Part A of the
Project:
(a)
goods (except
drugs and food)
11,400,000
   83%
(b)
works
45,500,000
   83% 
(c)
consultants’
services
and training
13,000,000
   100%
(2)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
goods
 3,200,000
   83%
(b)
consultants’
services
 1,600,000
   100%
(3)
Part C of the Project:
(a)
consultants’
(including
auditors’)
services
 4,800,000
   100%
(b)
goods
   500,000
   100%
(4)
Unallocated
20,000,000
TOTAL
      100,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule with respect to any Subproject unless:
(i)
the Subproject has been approved in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(ii)
the relevant Provincial Agreement and, if applicable, the relevant 
Municipal Agreement, has been entered into by the parties thereto; 
(iii)
the Province has taken all action necessary to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
a Subproject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in the 
Loan Agreement; and 
(iv)
the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to it, showing that 
all action referred to in subparagraph (iii) above has been taken;
(c)
any expenditure if financing for such expenditure is available to the 
Borrower or a Province or a Municipality under any other Bank loan.   
Page  9
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent;
(b)
for works under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent; and
(c)
for services of consulting and training firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent and for services of individual consultants and trainers 
under contracts costing less than $40,000 equivalent, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
The 83% "expenditures to be financed" figure for goods and works in the third 
column of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule is set so as to preclude Loan 
financing of the applicable Argentine value added tax (currently set at 21%). 
Therefore, in those cases where the goods or works procured are exempt from the value 
added tax (such as when procured through a tax-exempt procurement agent), Loan 
financing for such items can be 100% (net of taxes).  
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a follow-up to the first Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition 
Project (Bank Loan 3643-AR).
The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to increase substantially the provision 
of maternal and prenatal care services; (b) to improve the provision of pediatric 
services for children aged 5 years or younger; (c) to transform a substantial number 
of existing child feeding centers and kindergartens into early childhood development 
centers; and (d) to decentralize and strengthen social service management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: Subprojects
Carrying out of Subprojects in the Provinces in the following areas:
(1)
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition:
(a)
Women’s reproductive health care: pre-natal controls; tetanus 
vaccination; child delivery; newborn reception and post-partum care; promotion of 
breastfeeding and birth spacing; control and treatment of sexually-transmitted 
diseases; oral health; and cervical and breast cancer screening.
(b)
Child health care: infant care; growth monitoring; breastfeeding 
promotion; vaccination against measles, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, tuberculosis, 
and tetanus; oral rehydration therapy; prevention and early treatment of 
gastrointestinal and acute respiratory diseases; oral health; violence prevention; and 
injury control and treatment.
(c)
Targeted food supplementation: monitoring of weight changes in pregnant 
women, malnourished mothers and children; monitoring breastfeeding practices.
(d)
Health and nutrition education and promotion: provision of information, 
education and communication about prenatal care, breastfeeding and infant feeding, 
dietary quality, hygiene, family planning, sexually transmitted diseases, 
environmental health risks, and violence and injury prevention; in-service training 
for health personnel; and development and delivery of health and nutrition-related 
messages and materials, including radio and television campaigns.
(e)
Organization and delivery of a basic package of maternal and child health 
and nutrition services through: (i) improving existing health centers and maternity 
wards of local hospitals; and  (ii) promotion of a referral system based on local 
health service arrangements within well-defined geographic areas.
(f)
Improvement of local health services networks through: (i) rehabilitation 
and upgrading of existing health facilities, improvement of the staff mix, and 
training of existing and new staff;  (ii) strengthening of the programming, 
Page  10
monitoring, supervision, and supply and maintenance functions; and (iii) promotion of 
intersectoral linkages, particularly with preschool programs and community 
organizations.
(2)
Early Childhood Development:
(a)
Transformation of pre-school feeding programs, child care centers, and 
kindergartens into child development centers offering comprehensive care and nutrition 
assistance for the development of children below 6 years of age.
(b)
Training of teachers, mothers and other staff employed in child 
development centers referred to under paragraph (a) above.
(c)
Improvement or establishment of coordination between local health centers 
and the child development centers referred to under paragraph (a) above, and promotion 
of outreach activities to strengthen linkages with households and the local community.
(3)
Institutional strengthening through the provision of technical assistance for:
(a)
Improvement in the preparation of Subprojects.
(b)
Strengthening of the management capability of UEPs and UEMs in order to 
improve the implementation of Subprojects.
(c)
Implementation of integrated models of health care delivery by the 
Provinces and Municipalities.
(d)
Establishment and consolidation of multisector teams (health, education 
and social action) within the Provinces and Municipalities.
(e)
Transfer of the methodology of the Project to other projects of MSAS, 
especially in the areas of targeting, intersectoral coordination, preparation, 
management, monitoring, and evaluation of subprojects.
(f)
Improvement of the efficacy and efficiency of the implementation of the 
Dación de Leche Program.
Part B:
Strengthening of MSAS’s Statistical System 
Improvement of MSAS’s statistical information system, including upgrading of 
system design, provision and use of computer hardware and software, and training of 
personnel at the provincial and national level.
Part C: 
Project Administration
Coordination and supervision of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project 
at the national, provincial and municipal levels.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due 
     (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2003
through July 15, 2012
5,000,000
Page  11
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,300,000 equivalent) may, and works (except as 
otherwise provided in this Part C) shall, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph (a) above, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be 
used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  12
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:  (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B of this Section; and (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of  $500,000 or more to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of firms of consultants 
and auditors estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting or auditing firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $40,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Page  13
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $8,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  14
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Provincial and Municipal Agreements
The Provincial Agreements and the Municipal Agreements shall include, inter 
alia, the following terms and conditions:
1.
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, to the Provinces such part of the 
proceeds of the Loan  as is required for the execution of the Subprojects in the 
Province and the Province shall use such funds, or shall cause them to be used by the 
Municipalities, exclusively for such purpose.
2.
The Provinces shall enter into agreements with the Municipalities (with respect 
to Subprojects to be executed by the Municipalities) under terms and conditions that 
are, where applicable, the same as under the Provincial Agreements. 
3.
The Provinces shall comply with the provisions of Sections 3.01 (a) and (b), 
3.02, 3.07, and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement  and shall assist the Borrower in 
discharging its obligations to the Bank under Sections 3.01 (c), 3.02, 3.03, 3.05, 
3.06, 4.01 and Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
The Provinces shall undertake to reorganize, with technical assistance from the 
Project, the Dación de Leche Program in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank.
5.
The Provinces shall, to the extent possible, redeploy existing staff in the 
carrying out of Subprojects in order to minimize the Subprojects’ incremental 
recurrent costs.
