Page  1
July 30, 2001
Mr. Domingo Felipe Cavallo,
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Re:
Argentina: Loan No. 4164-AR 
Second Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project. First 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated September 
23, 1997 (the Loan Agreement), with respect to the above-captioned Project.
In response to your request dated July 10, 2001, we are pleased to advise you 
that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement, so as to provide financing for the 
additional expenditures related to the preparation of several studies, including inter 
alia, a national nutrition and health study and a baseline and impact evaluation 
study.
The referred amendments to the Loan Agreement are the following:
1.
Schedule 1 is hereby amended to create a new category and reallocate funds among 
disbursement categories by replacing in its entirety the table in paragraph 1, by the 
new table detailed in the Annex I to this Letter.
2.
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to create a new component "D" 
for the Project, to read in its entirety as set forth in Annex II to this Letter.
3.
Section 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to include 
the newly created category 5, to read in its entirety as follows:
"1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;"
Please confirm your agreement of the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below. This amendment letter may be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this amendment Letter will 
become effective as of the date first above written, once the Bank has received one 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Mark Hagerstrom
Acting Country Director (*)
Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
(*) Acting period: July 30, 2001
CONFIRMED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
By /s/ Domingo F. Cavallo
Date:
September 18, 2001
ANNEX I
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the    % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in    to be
Category
   Dollars)
Financed
(1)
Subprojects under
Part A of the
Project:
(a)
goods (except
drugs and food)
 13,000,000
83%
(b)
works
 40,800,000
83% 
(c)
consultants’
services
and training
 24,000,000
100%
(2)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
goods
  1,200,000
83%
(b)
consultants’
services
  1,200,000
100%
(3)
Part C of the Project:
(a)
consultants’
(including
auditors’)
services
  8,100,000
100%
(b)
goods
    500,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
  2,000,000
(5)
Consultants under
Part D of the Project
  9,200,000
100%
TOTAL
100,000,000
ANNEX II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a follow-up to the first Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition 
Project (Bank Loan 3643-AR).
The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to increase substantially the provision 
Page  3
of maternal and prenatal care services; (b) to improve the provision of pediatric 
services for children aged 5 years or younger; (c) to transform a substantial number 
of existing child feeding centers and kindergartens into early childhood development 
centers; and (d) to decentralize and strengthen social service management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Carrying out of Subprojects in the Provinces in the following areas:
(1)
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition:
(a)
Women’s reproductive health care: pre-natal controls; tetanus 
vaccination; child delivery; newborn reception and post-partum care; promotion of 
breastfeeding and birth spacing; control and treatment of sexually-transmitted 
diseases; oral health; and cervical and breast cancer screening.
(b)
Child health care: infant care; growth monitoring; breastfeeding 
promotion; vaccination against measles, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, tuberculosis, 
and tetanus; oral rehydration therapy; prevention and early treatment of 
gastrointestinal and acute respiratory diseases; oral health; violence prevention; and 
injury control and treatment.
(c)
Targeted food supplementation: monitoring of weight changes in pregnant 
women, malnourished mothers and children; monitoring breastfeeding practices.
(d)
Health and nutrition education and promotion: provision of information, 
education and communication about prenatal care, breastfeeding and infant feeding, 
dietary quality, hygiene, family planning, sexually transmitted diseases, 
environmental health risks, and violence and injury prevention; in-service training 
for health personnel; and development and delivery of health and nutrition-related 
messages and materials, including radio and television campaigns.
(e)
Organization and delivery of a basic package of maternal and child health 
and nutrition services through: (i) improving existing health centers and maternity 
wards of local hospitals; and  (ii) promotion of a referral system based on local 
health service arrangements within well-defined geographic areas.
(f)
Improvement of local health services networks through: (i) rehabilitation 
and upgrading of existing health facilities, improvement of the staff mix, and 
training of existing and new staff;  (ii) strengthening of the programming, 
monitoring, supervision, and supply and maintenance functions; and (iii) promotion of 
intersectoral linkages, particularly with preschool programs and community 
organizations.
(2)
Early Childhood Development:
(a)
Transformation of pre-school feeding programs, child care centers, and 
kindergartens into child development centers offering comprehensive care and nutrition 
assistance for the development of children below 6 years of age.
(b)
Training of teachers, mothers and other staff employed in child 
development centers referred to under paragraph (a) above.
(c)
Improvement or establishment of coordination between local health centers 
and the child development centers referred to under paragraph (a) above, and promotion 
of outreach activities to strengthen linkages with households and the local community.
(3)
Institutional strengthening through the provision of technical assistance for:
(a)
Improvement in the preparation of Subprojects.
(b)
Strengthening of the management capability of UEPs and UEMs in order to 
improve the implementation of Subprojects.
(c)
Implementation of integrated models of health care delivery by the 
Provinces and Municipalities.
(d)
Establishment and consolidation of multisector teams (health, education 
Page  4
and social action) within the Provinces and Municipalities.
(e)
Transfer of the methodology of the Project to other projects of MSAS, 
especially in the areas of targeting, intersectoral coordination, preparation, 
management, monitoring, and evaluation of subprojects.
(f)
Improvement of the efficacy and efficiency of the implementation of the 
Dación de Leche Program.
Part B:
Strengthening of MSAS’s Statistical System 
Improvement of MSAS’s statistical information system, including upgrading of 
system design, provision and use of computer hardware and software, and training of 
personnel at the provincial and national level.
Part C: 
Project Administration
Coordination and supervision of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project 
at the national, provincial and municipal levels.
Part D: 
National Studies
(1)
Preparation of a nutrition survey at the National level.
(2)
Carry out of a baseline and impact evaluation study.
(3)
Carry out of a special maternal, child health and early childhood development 
studies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
