                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                                                                  Report No: 33790-CM

                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                           ONA PROPOSED

                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                             INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 17.3 MILLION
                                (US$25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  A N D A

                                 PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lO.O MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                                  FOR A

               FOREST AND ENVIRONMENTDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                                            January 31,2006


Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development 3
Country Department 07
Africa Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

             (ExchangeRateEffectiveEstimationfor January31,2006)

                               Currency Unit-CFA Franc
                                    539 FCFA = US$1

                                      FISCALYEAR
                                January 1-December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A A P     Assessment and Action Plan
ACCT      Agent Comptable Central du Trbor (Accountant o fthe Central Treasury)
ANAFOR    National Agency for Forest Development (ex-ONADEF)
ARMP      Public Markets Regulatory Agency
BEAC      Banque des Etats d 'Apique Centrale (Central Bank o f the Central African States)
BF        Basket Fund
CAA       CaisseAutonome d 'Amortissement (National Debt Management Agency)
CAMAIR    Cameroon Airlines
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Countryfinancial accountability assessment
CFAF      Franc de la Communautd Financibre d'Afrique (Franc o f Central African Community)
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
COFOG     Classification o f Functions o f Government
COMIFAC   Conference o f Ministers incharge of Forests inCentral Africa
COTCO     Cameroon Oil Processing Company
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Review
CTS       Comite' Technique de Supervision (Techincal Oversight Committee)
DAG       Directorate o f Administration and General Affairs
DCP       MINFOF Projects Coordination Directorate
DFAP      MINEP Wildlife andprotected areas directorate
DGE       Division des Grandes Entreprises (Revenue Department Division dealing with large companies)
D P       MINFOFPlanningDirectorate
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP       Environmental Impact MitigationPlan
ERR       Economic Rate o f Return
EU        European Union
FCFA      Franc de la Communautd Financibre d'Afrique (Franc o f Central African Community)
FEDEC     Foundationfor the Environment and Development o f Cameroon
FEDPG     Forest and Environment DevelopmentPolicy Grant
FEICOM    Cameroon fund for community development
FREP      Forestry Revenue Enhanced Programme
FESP      Cameroon's National Forest and Environment Sector Program
FSF       Protected area and wildlife fund
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GoC       Government of Cameroon
GTZ       Gesellschaftfir Technische Zusammenarbeit (German development agency)
HIPC      Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
IDA       International DevelopmentAssociation
IGF       Inspection Ge'ne'raledes Finances (Finance General Inspector's Office)
IMF       International Monetary Fund

IPDP         Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IUCN         InternationalUnion for the Conservation o fNature
KfW          German International Development Bank
LBG          Limbe Botanical Garden
MINEF        Ministryo fEnvironment andForests
MINEFI       Ministryo fEconomy andFinance
M I N E P    Ministryo fEnvironment andNature Protection
MINFOF       Ministryo fForests andWildlife
MTEF         MediumTerm Expenditure Framework
NTFP         N o ntimber Forest Products
OED          Operations EvaluationDepartment o f the World Bank
ONADEF       National office for the development o f forests
PAME         Protected Area Management Effectiveness score
PGT          Payeur Gtndral du Trdsor (Treasury General Payment Officer)
PNDP         National Program for participatory development
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
QAG          Quality Assessment Group o f the World Bank
RFA          RedevanceForestidre Annuelle (Annual area-based forest fee)
RIGC         Capacity Buildingfor Forest Community Management
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SCWPA        Strategy for conservation o f wildlife and protected area
SG           MINFOF General Secretariat
SIGEFI       Systdmede Gestion Financidre (Financial Management System)
SNH          Socidtd Nationale des Hydrocarbures (Cameroon's National Oil Company)
S N V        Netherlands-based, International Development Organisation
UFA          Long term forest management unit
U N D P      UnitedNations Development Program
U S A I D    United States Agency for International Development
UTOs         Techmcal Operational Unit comprising a forest concessionand adjacent park.
vc           Ventede Coupe (Small harvesting permits)
WB           World Bank
wcs          World Conservation Society
WWF          World Wide FundForNature
ZICGCs       Zones d'Intdr6t Cyndgdtique a Gestion Communautaire (Community managed game reserves)
ZIC/ZICCG    Private game reserves




                              Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                            Country Director:       Ali M.Khadr
                             Sector Manager:        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                          Task Team Leader: Giuseppe Topa

                                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTRODUCTION.................................................................            ......................    ....................................................1
  I. COUNTRYCONTEXT...................................................................................................................
    THE                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                            ....................               .........................................................     1
     B. Macroeconomic Outlook and


     E.SectorLinks to Governance.....................................................................................................

     A. Program Description..........
     B. Program Components........................................................................................................................ .8
  111.WORLDBANKSUPPORTTOTHEGOVERNMENT                                         FESPPROGRAM................................                           ,.......................9
     A. Links to Cameroon's CountryAssistance Strategy...........................................................
     B. Consolidation of Previous
     C. Collaboration with Other DevelopmentPartners.....................
     D.Links with Other WorldB
     E. Past Experience and LessonsLearned                                                                                                           .....................   12
     F.Analytical Underpinnings...,,.,.,,,,,,,,.....,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,..,......,,...,,....,,,,,,....,,..,,...,..,,,.....,,,..,,,..,,..,..
  IV. THEPROPOSEDIDAAND GEFFORESTANDENVIRONMENTPOLICYDEVELOPMENT
  GRANTS........  ..............................................................................................................................................             14
     A. Operation Description...................,.....................~......................................,.....................,...,,..,..,,,..,.,14
                           .................................                                              ..........                                ......................   15
     C.Agreed Actions and Conditions....... ~...... ~..........~.~..................~....................................                                                    20
                                                             ~ ~      ~
 V. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROPOSEDGRANT.....................................................................                                                                 23
     A. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation                                                    ..................................
     B. Fiduciary and ProcurementAspects ..............                                              ................,.......................,,,..,,,..,..,,.., ...,25  ,,
     C.Disbursement andAuditing                                                                                                                     ......................26
     D.Poverty and SocialAspects ...........................................................................................
     E. Economic and Financial Aspects......................................................................

  VI. RISKS, RISKMITIGATIONAND EXITSTRATEGY............
     F.Environmental Aspects...........                     ................                                     ..............................................,........3     1
  ANNEX 1:POLICY MATRIX OF KEY ACTIONS AND INDICATORS                                            ................................................................... 34
  ANNEX 2: SUMMARY DESCRIPTIONOFTHE FORESTAND ENVIRONMENT SECTOR PROGRAM..                                                                               .......,....,.....39
  ANNEX 3: CODE OF CONDUCT ADOPTED BY FESP SUPPORTING PARTNERS                                                         .................................................     44
  ANNEX 4: THE MULTI-DONOR BASKETFUND FORTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                            ...............................................     51
  ANNEX 5: FORESTAND ENVIRONMENT SECTORPOLICYLETTER                                                  ................................................................ 53
  ANNEX 6: ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT REPORT SUMMARIES ........................................,,,83
  ANNEX 7: MATRIX OF STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION PLAN...................................                                                .................................     107
  ANNEX 8: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSISAND INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS
  ANNEX 9: PROTECTED AREA MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVENESS BASELINE AND TARGET VALUES,. ,
  ANNEX 10: MONITORING EVALUATIONSYSTEM
                                   AND                                           .................................................................................
                                                                                                -                                            ............................ 110
                                                                                                                                                                        ....I19

  ANNEX 10 (CONT'D): MONITORING EVALUATION          AND                            INDICATORS AND BASELINEVALUES                                        ...........,.....124
  ANNEX 11:FORESTAND GREENENVIRONMENT SECTORMEDIUMTERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK 141                                                                                          ..128
  ANNEX 12: FIDUCIARY RISK ASSESSMENT                        ................................................................................................. 143
  ANNEX 13: FINANCIALTRANSFER MECHANISMS                               .......................................................................................              171
  ANNEX 14: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                ....................................................................................             174
  ANNEX 15: FUND RELATIONS NOTE                   ............................................................................................................ 175

The Forest and Environment Development Policy Grant was preparedby a team consisting of Giuseppe Topa,
Laurent Debroux, Clotilde Ngomba, Mohammed Bekhechi, Carole Megevand, Florence Charlier, Gilles
Veuillot, Robert Robelus, Cyprian Fisiy, Jean-Michel Pavy, Serge Menang and Sheela Reddi. Peer Reviewers
were Kevin Cleaver and Odin Knudsen.

                                                   REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                               FOREST AND ENVIRONMENT SECTOROPERATION

                                        IDA & GEF GRANTSPROGRAMSUMMARY'

Borrower                     Government o f Cameroon

Amount                       IDA SDR 17,3 million( US$25 millionequivalent)
                             GEF US$10 million
Terrns                       IDA Grant
                             GEF Grant

Tranchmg                     Three tranches

Description                  The operation represents the IDA and GEF contribution to a multi-donor national
                             forest and environment sector development program initiated and led by the
                             Government o f Cameroon. It will help consolidate and scale up recent successful
                             forest sector policy reforms, support capacity-building, and strengthen forest and
                             environment institution by expanding their work programs in the fields o f
                             environmental monitoring, policy oversight, law enforcement, forest management,
                             biodiversity conservation, and community-based forest activities.

Benefits                     The operation will benefit the national economy, local governing bodies, and
                             Cameroon's population at large. Given the concentration o f poverty in rural areas
                             (where most o f the poor live and where 64 percent o f all inhabitants are poor), the
                            hardship and l o w wages typical o f forest employment, and the forest's role as the
                            principal source o f cash income for the rural poor - the operation i s self-targeting on
                             the poor. Through its focus on sectoral policy, institutional reform, law enforcement,
                            regulation o f production forest and environmental monitoring, rehabilitation o f
                             degraded national parks and biodiversity conservation sites, the FEDPG will have a
                             strong positive impact on the environment.

Risks                        The operation carries significant risks associated with political and financial
                             sustainability. For the Bank, there are also fiduciary and reputational risks. The
                            FEDPG integrates comprehensive measures to address or mitigate each risk.
                            Furthermore, the operation is designed and sequenced to build institutional capacity to
                             address effectively the root cause o f these risks. In assessing the operation, the team
                            found that important political, economic and reputational risks would be also
                            associated with not supporting this operation. Given the Bank's considerable
                            involvement insector reforms over the past several years in Cameroon, lack o f follow
                            up attention to the sector would entail the weakening or reversal o f successful
                            reforms, encourage abuse by vested interests, and halt the reformprogress inpartially
                            reformed institutions, newly created management systems and governance structures.
                            The potential downside associated with inaction far outweighs the risks associated
                            with the operation itself.

Operation ID                PO70656




  For the flrst time and at variance with OD 9.01, the proposed operation will use GEF Trust FundGrant resources to fmance a development policy
operation. To allow this to happen, the GEF Council discussed and approved the design of the operation on May 19-21, 2004 and a waiver of OD
9.01 was granted on April 13, 2005.

                                            INTRODUCTION

The results-based Country Assistance Strategy for Cameroon presented to the Board in August 2003
featured the present result-based operation in the base case lending scenario. The operation i s
instrumental in supporting the Strategy's two pillars o f poverty reduction: improved pro-poor economic
management and service delivery, and economic diversification and accelerated growth. This operation
will help pave the way for the a gradual transition o f the Bank's Cameroon portfolio from traditional
investment instruments to more integrated programmatic lending linked to policy reforms and results
achieved. It will do so by allowing the Government to use its newly reformed national procurement and
financial management procedures in the utilization o f the IDA and GEF Grants proceeds for
implementing the present operation.


                                    I.THECOUNTRYCONTEXT

A. RecentEconomicDevelopments

1.       Cameroon's macroeconomic performance through 2004 was broadly solid, with real growth
registering about 4 percent since 1997 and inflation remaining low. However, in 2004, the business
climate was adversely affected by the Treasury's accumulation o f domestic payment arrears and slow
progress in restructuring o f loss-making public enterprises. Real GDP growth for 2004 i s estimated at 3.5
percent, lower than initial estimates because o f weaker-than-expected manufacturing activity, driven in
part by lower-than-expected electricity generation. Early estimates o f growth projections for 2005 are
below 3 percent, with sluggish manufacturing output and weak consumption caused in part by fiscal
consolidation. As a result, per capita income growth i s estimated to have slowed to less than 1percent in
2005. Inflation remained low in 2004, reflecting a good harvest and sluggishdomestic demand. Inflation
i s estimated to have been about one percent in 2005. The surge in international oil prices has not
significantly affected inflation in Cameroon because fuel prices were adjusted only partially. Consistent
with slowing activity levels, credit to the private sector grew marginally duringJuly 2004-June 2005 but
i s expected to accelerate during the second semester o f 2005, bringing broad money growth to 4.5
percent. High international oil prices are helping strengthen Cameroon's overall external position. Non-
oil exports are estimated to have declined by 4 percent in 2005, after two years o f growth, because o f
weaker exports o f primary commodities known for strong year-on-year variations. Manufactured exports
remain weak, and the economy's price competitiveness appears to have changed little inrecent years.

2.       Fiscal performance, particularly non-oil revenue, weakened considerably in 2003/2004 and
budget pressures were accommodated by an increase in domestic arrears and extra-budgetary spending.
The non-oil primary deficit widened from 0.3 percent o f non-oil GDP in 2003 to 1.5 percent in 2004.
Non-oil revenue declined by 0.8 percentage points o f GDP. Income taxes reflected a higher-than-
expected loss from the income tax reform introduced in 2004, while the decline o f VAT and revenue
appeared to reflect a slowdown o f activity in the formal sector and shortcomings in revenue
administration due to various reforms introduced in 2004. Cash expenditure increased by 0.5 percent o f
GDP, despite a decline in budget allocations by 0.4 percent. This indicated significant expenditures
executed in 2004 related to previous budget years and extra-budgetary spending. Overall budget balance
weakened by nearly 1.5 percent of GDP to a deficit o f 0.8 percent o f GDP. This was financed by higher
foreign financing (project loans and debt relief), an accumulation o f external arrears, and low payments
on domestic arrears and debt. As a result o f the above weaknesses in fiscal performance, the 2000 PRGF
arrangement could not be completed.

3.       In 2005, Cameroon embarked on a Staff-Monitored Program with the IMF and adopted an
ambitious program to restore the fiscal position. This program sought to mobilize non-oil revenue in the
context o f the secular decline in oil output, contain non interest current expenditure, strengthen public
investment implementation and restructure/privatize major loss making enterprises. The successful

                                                      1

implementation of the IMF Staff-Monitored Program led to the adoption o f a new PRGF on October 24,
2005, and opened the possibility for Cameroon to reach the HIPC completion point in the second quarter
of 2006. Immediate policy priorities highlighted in the PRGF program include: (i)enhancing the
transparency o f fiscal operations; (ii)increasing public investment, including HIPC-funded, spending;
(iii)accelerating the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises to limit current or future
budgetary costs; and (iv) improving governance and the business environment.

B. Macroeconomic Outlook andDebt Sustainability

4.       Lookingforward, the macroeconomic framework is expected to remain stable. The medium-term
macroeconomic framework targets a gradually increasing growth rate. The Government's fiscal
projections are built on lower oil revenue, higher non-oil revenue, rationalized public expenditures, and
more targeted spending in priority sectors. The overall fiscal balance, excluding grants, i s projected to
reach 1.6 percent of GDP in 2005 and 0.7 percent in2006. Total revenues excluding grants are expected
to decline slightly from 17.8 percent o f GDP in 2006 to 16.5 percent o f GDP by the end of 2008, as a
result o f an expected oil revenue decline from 5.5 percent o f GDP in2006 to 3.7 percent in 2008. The oil
revenue shortfall would be partially offset by increasednon-oil revenue projected to reach 12.8 percent o f
GDP in2008.

                                                         Selected Economic Indicators
                                        Economic Indicators                                     Actual         Estimate            Proj.

                                                                                                 2002      2003    2004    2005     2006
       I GDP growth rate - at constant prices                                                 1  4.0   I   4.1  I  3.5  I  2.8   I  4.2  I
       r N i o l i GDP growth rate - at constant pnces                                        I  4.9  I    4.9  I   4.7  1  3 7  I  4.1    1
         Inflation rate (CPI)                                                                    2.8       0.6      0.3     1.3     1.80

         Government revenue (excl. grant)/GDP                                                    16.5      16.1    15.1    16.9.0   17.8

         Primary budget balance/GDP                                                              3.8       3.4      1.9     3.9      3.4
       IIGovernment expenditure/GDP                                                              15.7      15.4    15.9    15.3     17.0

         Overall fiscal balance (excl grant)/GDP                                              1I  0.8   1I 0.7   II-0.8  11 1.6  II  0.7   1I
         Current account balance/GDP                                                             -6.1      -2.1    -3.0    -2.4     -1.2

         NPV o f External public debt after past debt relief/GDPt                                49.6      39.0    35.8    31.1     27.5

         External debt sen-ice as % o f exports o f goods and sen.ices (before debt relie9       27.7      26.0    23.0    20.2     17.1

         External debt senrice as Yo o f exports goods and services (after debt relief)          10.0       8.7     7.0     6.7      3.6




5.       Financing needs. The proposed program i s consistent with both the overall Government's
Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEFs) and with the detailed MTEFs prepared for priority
sectors including health, education, road, forests and the green environment. According to the MTEF
operating and capital expenditures funded domestically as a percentage o f the GDP are projected to
double by 2008 in the forest/environment sector. While external financing i s critical to successful
implementation o f the proposed operation, it does not crowd out Government's own efforts to adequately
fund the sector nor does it inflate artificially the resources available for the sector. O f the sector
expenditures projected over the forthcoming five years (US$185.3 million) excluding the salaries, 48.1
percent would be met by Government resources, and 31.5 percent through contributions by development
partners which leaves a US$25.7 million financing gap over five years (see Annex 11 on MTEF for the
forest and green environment sector). Averaging 13.8 percent o f the total cost o f the investment, the
financing gap i s expected to reduce significantly during implementation (not-yet committed pledges of
various development partners have been excluded from the calculation o f available funding). At any rate,

                                                                          2

the program is robust enough to be executed well even in case the funding gap were not significantly
reduced.

C.The Forestand EnvironmentSector Setting

6.         Geography and biodiversity. Stretching over 475,000 square kilometers between Central and
Western Africa, Cameroon extends from the arid fringes o f the Sahara inthe north to the humidrainforest
biome o f the Congo Basin inthe south, with a range o f climatic and vegetative zones inbetween. Interms
o f biological diversity, the country i s second only to the Democratic Republic o f Congo in Africa, with
some 409 species o f mammals (including half o f Africa's 52 species o f higher primates), 848 species o f
birds, nine thousand species o f vascular plants (of which at least 156 are endemic), 171 species o f
amphibians, 210 species o f reptiles, and 138 species o f fish. Cameroon has one o f the highest proportions
o f land area devoted to conservation in Africa. Some 14percent o f the country's territory i s designated as
national parks, reserves, sanctuaries and conservation concessions, whether these concessions are existing
or in the process o f being gazetted or negotiated. Permanent production forests cover about six million
hectares. Parks and permanent production forests are demarcated through an extensive process o f public
consultation inwhich a wide range o f stakeholders participate.

7.         Theforest sector in the Cameroonian economy. The forest sector i s Cameroon's largest non-
public sector employer and its second largest source o f export revenue after petroleum, accounting for
28.2 percent o f non-petroleum exports between 1992 and 2000. Cameroon also possesses one o f the
continent's most developed, technologically advanced and dynamic wood processing industry. Forestry
and related activities accounted for 8.9 percent o f gross domestic product between 1992 and 2000, and the
sector has grown 4.7 percent a year since 2000. The sector shows signs o f gradually diversifying in
coming years into a broader range o f forest products and environmental services.

8,         Forest reforms and developments. Recent reforms have bolstered the forest sector's contribution
to rural development and economic growth. Policy changes between 1994 and 2004 fostered new
investment which expanded the number o f processing units from 38 to 70, significantly raising the
number o f those employed inthe sector. Fiscal Reforms and improved forest revenue collection increased
state fiscal revenues, from about US$14 million in 1994 to US$60 million eight years later. Revenues to
local governing bodies rose from close to zero to US$10 million a year. The wood processing industry
has begun a shift towards secondary processing as a result of improvements in the larger investment
climate, raising the value-added within the sector while volumes harvested and the area under active
logging have started to decline. Overall the sector i s projected to grow at around 4 percent per year until
2015 - providing a much needed source o f both local and central public revenues. Increases in
employment level are also projected.

9.         Forest loss. Expansion o f agriculture and fuelwood collection are the principal cause o f
deforestation in Cameroon. These occur mostly in drier northern areas where commercial logging i s
virtually nonexistent. In the humid south, forest loss i s highest along roads in proximity to major cities,
where the transport costs associated with illegal logging are lower. In the 1990s a zoning plan was
introduced in the south, dividing forests into permanent production forests, community and communal
forests, and protected areas. The present operation will introduce a similar, participatory zoning plan in
the north.

10.        Despite Cameroon's large areas o f protected forests, the sector's strong performance in recent
years has not been matchedby comparable improvements in sustainable forest management or protection
o f forest ecosystems. As a result, the rate o f Cameroon's forest loss remains around 0.65 percent per year
(that i s the average for all o f Africa). While illegal loggingby the forest industryhas been significantly

reduced, it has persisted and expanded within the informal sector along with the commercial trade o f
bushmeat and poaching o f endangered species.

D. Sector Linksto PovertyReduction

11.      Forests in the economy of Cameroon. Forests have a profound significance for poverty reduction
inCameroon. Directly employing over 12,000 workers, the sector is far and away the largest employer in
rural areas, and enjoys exceptionally low cost o f job creation relative to other manufacturing sectors,
making it a logical focal point for expanding employment. Given the concentration o f poverty in forest
zones, the hardship and low wages typical o f forest employment inCameroon, and its role as the principle
source o f cash income for the rural poor, the impact o f forest development on the poor i s significant and
self-targeting. In addition to providing exchange for necessities that require cash payment, like school
fees, medicine, and clothing, forests are likewise a source o f food, shelter, domestic energy, and
traditional medicines, which are essential to the vast majority o f Cameroon's poor.

12.      Forests role in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Forests offer opportunity for
economic growth and perform ecosystem functions o f immense regional and global significance. A large
proportion o f the poorest people in Cameroon concentrate in and around forests, making forests vital to
their livelihoods, and central to their food security, vulnerability, and seasonal income streams. Improved
forest stewardship and addressing problems o f poverty in forest areas are therefore key to achieving the
Millennium Development Goals particularly MD Goal One (Reducing Extreme Poverty) and MD Goal
Seven (Achieving Environmental Sustainability). National commitments to the MDGs cannot be achieved
unless substantial progress i s made to target poverty reduction amongst forest dependent people.

13,      Forests in Cameroons Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The Joint IDNIMF Staff Assessment
o f the Cameroon Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (Report No. 26243) singles out the forest sector as an
engine o f specifically pro-poor economic growth, as well as an important area o f economic
diversification, providing a hedge against the vulnerability o f national income to export price shocks
implicit inthe country's still significant reliance on oil revenues. The USSlO million per year the forestry
sector provides local governments makes it the first source o f funds for community infrastructure,

E. Sector Links to Governance

14.      Forests as a source of political patronage. Like with other countries in the sub-region,
Cameroon's forests have often represented a means through which political elites distributed privileges,
mobilized and rewarded political support, and enriched themselves at the expense o f the country. Until
well into the 1990s, Cameroon's forests were part o f a well-organized machinery o f influence between
patrons and clients. Government officials in charge o f regulating the forest sector operated as gate-
keepers o f harvesting rights, while higher ranking authorities maintained direct relations with the timber
industry and other vested interest groups. Corruption was particularly damaging to the forest sector,
where it not only represented a leakage o f much needed public resources, but also impeded larger
volumes o f quality foreign investment fi-om being realized in Cameroon, encouraged illegal logging in
national parks, and undermined the legitimacy and credibility o f the state.

15.      Governance reforms in theforest sector. Portrayed inthe press as one o f the most corrupt nation
states in the World, in 1998 Cameroon's Government acted to improve its international image, and
identified the forest sector as an area inwhich to demonstrate its capacity to break with past practices and
showcase its commitment to reform. Led by a strong team of reformers and supported by the World Bank
and IMF within the frameworks o f the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 111) and Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) respectively, governance reforms in the forest sector benefited
from increasingly broad political and popular support. They became a testing ground for innovation and a
prototype for reforms in other sectors,

                                                       4

16.      Forest sector reforms. The reforms themselves consisted o f the following measures among
others: (i)  New legislation on community forests, the environment, social and environmental impacts, and
a new strategy for managing protected areas; (ii)                   Demarcation o f the permanent forest estate into
commercial, protected, and community and communal zones; (iii)                       Introduction o f longer and more
predictable concession contracts, and o f bank guarantees to facilitate compliance with fiscal and
environmental regulations; (iv) Use o f public information and independent observers to ensure
transparency in forest auctions and law enforcement; (v) Suspension o f all un-monitorable logging
permits and introduction o f auctions for all harvesting rights; (vi) Clear definitions o f forest management
requirements and introduction o f mandatory management plans; and (vii) Adoption o f a new forest
taxation and forest revenue recovery system.

17.      Impact of the reforms on transparency. The success o f the reforms can be measured by a number
of direct and indirect indicators. Recovery o f forest fees and taxes rose to over 90 percent. Transparency
in allocation of forest concessions, payment of sector and corporate taxes, and application of penalties
were established for the first time. Independent observers were integrated as a welcome complement to
Government control and their official role reflected in regulations. From June 2001 to August 2004, a
BritishNGO, Global Witness, inits capacity of independent observer, completed 120 control missions of
which 107 jointly with forest control authorities and 13 independently. Global Witness published the
results o f its findings in 119 missions' reports and four summary reports inEnglishand French which was
disseminated in Cameroon and internationally. Over US$6.8 million o f penalties have been collected or
are in the process of being recovered, excluding impending court cases related to criminal forest
activities. Over 2,500 articles on forests and forest-related issues were published in the Cameroonian
press between 2000 and 2004. These transparency achievements are maintained and enhanced through
regular updates posted in the internet. Through its website (www.minef.cm) the Ministry in charge o f
Forests provides information to the public not only on Cameroonian forest-relevant laws and regulations
but also on sensitive matters such as cases of illegal logging and poaching of protectedspecies; fines paid
and cases in court, auctioning o f concessions and results o f the award process; and satellite images
showing o f forests3 with a level o f details that allows the identification o f illegal logging operations,

18.       Political commitment and institutional capacity. Such positive reflections o f political
commitment notwithstanding, political buy-in proved a necessary but not sufficient condition for the
sustainability and long-term success o f sector reforms. With a shrinkingand unmotivated staff, paid one
fourth o f the FCFA pre-devaluation salary level, forest institutions have had to rely on a small number of
reform champions, short-term funding, and ad-hoc partnerships. Capacity building remains a persistent
priority: law enforcement, policy oversight, program monitoring, and technical support all require further
efforts to strengthen the institutions responsible for them. Capitalizing fully on the improved economic
environmentresulting from the reform process will require an expansion o f field programs.

         11.THE GOVERNMENT'SFORESTANDENVIRONMENT SECTORPROGRAM

A. ProgramDescription
 19.      Cameroon's Forest and Environment Sector Program (FESP) i s a ten year program developed
jointly by the Government of Cameroon, its development partners, and the World Bank. It was adopted in
June 2004 as a common sector development framework for government institutions, local governing
bodies, communities, the private sector, NGOs, and other partners active in the forest domain. Its
implementation entails the alignment o f future donor support to fit into a consolidateddevelopment effort.
It also involves the merging or repositioning o f ongoing individual projects to fit the FESP objectives and
implementation structures (a process that i s already well advanced).



3This is currentlyavailable for the South of the country, where all commercialloggmgis located. Images shown are those produced
collaborativelywith the GlobalForestWatch Programof the World ResourcesInstitute.


                                                                5

20.      The FESP exemplifies the country's integrated approach to donor alignment, governance,
community participation, sustainable forest management, and biodiversity conservation. The intellectual
foundation of the Program rests in the notion that forest management, biodiversity conservation, social
equity and governance are highly inter-dependent and must be approached simultaneously. The country's
biodiversity resides in integrated landscapes consisting o f production forests, national parks, and
populated rural lands. As such, policy reforms in the forest and green environment must deal
simultaneously with economic and social aspects o f forests and biodiversity while establishing strong
linkswithrural development andfostering good governance.

21.      Consolidating the achievementsof SACIII.Grounded in the implementation o f Cameroon's 1993
Forest Policy and 1994 Forest Law, the Program i s designed to deepen and scale up recent forest policy
reforms and secure those initiated under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit for Cameroon (SAC 111).
The FESP focuses on strengtheningnational institutions and the role o f civil society, in order to create
conditions in which local communities and the private sector can gainfully engage in the sustainable
management, conservation, and development o f forests and other natural resources.

22.      The Program i s designed to play a vital role in enacting the policies laid out in the National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) and the Strategy for Conservation o f Wildlife and
Protected Area (SCWPA). These instruments call for securing some 40 protected areas, and increasing the
present protected area network from 14 to 17 percent of the national land area. The FESP i s also charged
with setting up instruments to bring Cameroon into compliance with the 1994 Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD), and more specifically with the recommendations o f the CBD Conferences o f the Parties
(COP) 111, IV, and V on critical ecosystems, threatened endemic species, ecosystem approaches, and sub-
regional linkages.

23.      Capacity building. At the very core o f the program i s the rehabilitation and rejuvenation o f
human resources responsible for the management o f the green environment. Halted to curb public
expenditures in the late eighties and early nineties, no new recruitments have taken place since to
compensate for staff retirement or premature death, and for enabling forest and environment institutions
to face new challenges. As part o f the preparation o f FESP these institutions have elaborated and sought
Government support for a four-year (2006-2009) recruitment strategy, covering 1550 new staff (600 in
2006, 400 in2007, 300 in 2008 and 250 in 2009, all qualifications included). This strategy will offset the
impact o f the departure o f two thirds o f current staff o f MINFOF and MINEP who expect to retire inthe
coming six years, thereby improving staff quality and motivation without significantly increasing the
salary bill. Expected recruitments will be complemented by a training program which has just been
launched with 150 staff trained during the past six months. The cost for the implementation o f the new
staffing strategy has been reflected in the Medium-term Expenditure Framework for the Forestry and
Environment Sector. Thanks to the momentum created by the FEDPG, and the support that this Program
enjoys by the Government a whole, the recruitment o f 600 staff to work as eco-guards in national parks
and protected areas has started. New staff are expected to be operational by June 2006.

24.      A program o f physical investments will help rehabilitate infrastructure and purchase new
equipment, while management systems for personnel, assets, inventory, material flows and financial
resource will be entirely reconstructed.

25.      Decentralization and refocusing of Government Institutions. The program will strengthen the
oversight and regulatory functions o f the Ministry o f Forests (MINFOF) and the Ministry of the
Environment (MINEP) at the center and in the field. In so doing the Program calls for Government
institutions to relinquish functions such as direct production, marketing and implementation of work
which can be more effectively carried out by the private sector, local communities, or NGOs. This
process was put into motion during program preparation with the restructuring o f ONADEF into
ANAFOR, which involved the separation of over 500 forest sector workers whose jobs had lost
relevance, and the foundation o f plans for recruiting and training o f new staff.
                                                        6

26,       Transparency and disclosure. The Program's commitment to transparency makes the generation
and availability o f information a natural priority. It seeks to define regulations that meaningfully guide
environmental monitoring and impact assessments, and stresses the creation and dissemination o f
knowledge resources like multiple resource inventories and cartographic materials to inform local
resource use. This purpose i s complemented by a strong environmental awareness component which
articulates the value and application o f these knowledge resources. Independent observers serving on
commissions in charge o f public auctioning o f concessions and harvesting rights, as well as observers
working with the government to control commercial logging and detect illegal logging, provide services
that foster public confidence and improve the public image o f forest policy. The Program supports these
services in a number o f ways, including the issuance o f public reports detailing cases o f infraction and
explaining how appropriate penalties were determined.

27.       Incentives. Deterrence of illegal activities i s balanced by incentives for sustainable forest and
wildlife management and responsible hunting.The incentives are directed at highquality private investors
who are able to complete management plans in a timely manner and ensure compliance with those plans'
components. The approval process for logging concessions and community hunting zones will be
streamlined, with a number o f existing institutional bottlenecks specifically targeted,

28.       Incentives are also built into the FESP's biodiversity conservation component, which seeks to
complete the delineation and upgrade the management effectiveness o f Cameroon's estate o f protected
areas - which are to contain at least 90 percent o f the country's combined biological diversity, New
partnerships and financial instruments are already in the pipeline, designed to promote long term interest
inlocal management of protected areas, and to ensure the active participation of local people inwildlife
and habitat management.4Local participation i s purposefully predicated on rural livelihoods and income
generation schemes designed to make the forest framework attractive to local communities. Inaddition to
private and small farmers' plantations, the Program seeks to position cooperatives and community-based
economic organizations as suppliers to the lucrative urban fuelwood market.




4 GEF and IDA support will target eight under-funded "Ecosystemunits" comprising of UTOs, UFAs and community forests centeredaround (a)
Waza with Lac Chad and Logone plains, @) K o q , Takamandaand Rumpi Hills complex, (c) Bakossi and Mount Kupe complex, (d) Campo hla'an
andCampo-Marinecomplex, (e) rlfbam andDiem,      (9Ndongorowetland, (g) BoubaBek/Nki   complexet (h)Benouecomplex.


                                                                   7

B. Program Components

29.    The Government Program consists o f five components and several subcomponents:


   Component                    Subcomponent                                              Estimated
                                                                                           US$ cost

    1.EnvironmentalRegulation and InformationManagement                                    7.49 million
                   Environmental regulations
                   Environmental Monitoring
                   Communications and environmental awareness

   2. Production ForestsManagement                                                        30.68 million
                   Completion of the Country Zoningplan
                   Forest Management Plans
                   Woodproduct industrialization
                   Control operations and sanctions
                   Valorization of Non-Timber Forest Products

   3. ProtectedArea, Biodiversity andWildlife Management                                  33.15 million
                   Biodiversity planning & zoning
                   Knowledge & information management
                   Participatory   protected    areas  & community      wildlife  areas
                   management
                   Design & implementation of protected area management plans
                   Optimization of economic benefits of protected areas & hunting zones
                   Legal and institutional reform ofprotected area and hunting zones management
                   Sustainablefinancing of wildlife &protected areas
                   National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan update

    4. Community Forest Resources Management                                              26.44 million
                   Capacity buildingfor communityforest and natural resource management
                   Reforestation andforest regeneration
                   Promotion of fuelwood supply

    5. InstitutionalStrengthening,Training and Research                                   87.53 million
                  Transition of ONADEF into ANAFOR
                  Strengthening the Environment Ministry
                  Rehabilitating education and research inforestry & environment sector
                  Capacity building and decentralization




                                                       8

                   111.WORLD BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT                            FESPPROGRAM

A. Links to Cameroon's CountryAssistance Strategy
30.       The operation i s featured in the base case lending scenario o f the August 2003 joint IDNIFC
Country Assistance Strategy for Cameroon (Report No. 26555). Its objectives, links to the CAS and
PRSP. Its role in supporting the CAS strategic pillars i s shown in the following table and following
paragraphs.

IIKTEGRATION OFOL'TCOMES INTOCr\MEROON'S RESCLTS-BASEDCOUN'IRY ;\SSISTASCE S'JX-\lXGY
I

              CASOUTCOMES                                      PRESENT OPERATION'S OUTCOMES

    PILLAR 1.INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORKFOR IMPROVEDPRO-POORECONOMIC MGT. & SERTrICE




 LocalGovernment bodiesreceive shares for    SACIII reforms are mantamedandmonitored,includinga taxattonsystem
                                             that enables the transfer of 40 percentof revenues from forest area fees to
                                            localgoverningbodies for developmentimttattves

 At least 60 percent of concessions awarded  75 percentof productionforests (UFA) are managedaccordingto
 begmimplementation of forest management    approvedforest managementplans and the remamder have plans under
                                            preparatton


 Of communittesrequesttngsupport perceive   All Communittes' requests to exercise thelr priority rights on Ve/entes de
 this support as timely and useful(82        Coupes are processed and all requests to estabhsh community forests are
 community forests have expressed interest) processed,all rejecttonsare justified and notlfiedto concernedcornmumties
                                            within reasonabletime periods

 Capacityof localgovernmentis strengthened   SACIII reforms are mamtamedandmonitored,includingthe
                                            mplementauonof a taxation system that enables the transfer of 10 percent
                                             of revenuesfrom forest area fees to localcommumttes for development
                                            inittatlves



31.       In addition to the above measurable contributions to CAS'S Pillar One, the proposed operation
will contribute to the CAS'S Pillar Two (Improved Basic Service Delivery) by securing the transfer o f a
significant share o f forest taxation revenues to rural communities, thus making rural health care and
education affordable to the poor especially in East, South, Littoral and South-West provinces. The
program will also contribute to reducing constraints (and associated costs) to private sector development
by improving forest sector governance, particularly in the areas o f business licensing, permit operations
and enforcement o f service standards in the relations between Forest Sector Institutions, Industry and
small scale local investors.

32.       The proposed operation relates strongly to two broader objectives set out inthe Strategy. Firstly,
it seeks to build on Cameroon's reform and poverty reduction gains o f recent years through its treatment
o f governance issues. Secondly, it embodies the transition from project-specific to programmatic lending
which the CAS prescribes for FY2006. The operation will contribute to these CAS objectives by helping
                                                            9

the Government expand its budget allocation to sector programs using newly reformed national
procurement and financial management procedures. These links to the country's public expenditure
management and fiduciary controls are meaningful well beyond the forest sector itself, and the
performance assessments to be carried out within the operation's timeframe will be scaled up and applied
to other sectors in the context o f the PRSC planned for FY2006.

B. ConsolidationofPreviousBank-assistedWork inthe Forest andEnvironmentSector

33.     The proposed operation builds upon the achievements o f the reform process that were assisted by
IDA'SThird Structural Adjustment Credit or SAC I11 (1998-2004). The objectives o f the forest
component of SAC I11were to: (i)       promote sustainable exploitation o f Cameroon's forests; (ii)
                                                                                                  preserve
ecological stability; (iii)
                          promote economically efficient, high value-added, and unsubsidized processing
industries; and (iv) encourage all stakeholders to participate inforest conservation and management.

34.     SAC I11achievements included: (i)      the establishment o f a regulatory framework for the design,
approval, and monitoring o f sustainable management in production forests; (ii) competitive system to
                                                                                    a
award commercial forest logging rights inthe presence o f an independent observer; (iii)  profound changes
inthe forest taxation system supported by ajoint forest revenue enhancements programby the Ministries
in charge of Forests and Finance; (iv) a forest operation control and supervision system involving
independent observers in field inspections and periodic interpretations o f satellite imagery; (v) the
establishment o f a consultative body through which the Ministries in charge o f Justice, Finance and
Forests could exchange information on pending civil and criminal court cases.

35.     While the most important forest and environment sector reforms were initiated through SACIII,
and a suitable body o f policy, regulations and incentives i s now in place, the new more sophisticated
framework that was created calls for more institutional capacity and more extensive collaboration among
Government, NGOs, civil society, and the private sector. Their importance, notwithstanding SAC I11
achievements, can only be viewed as preconditions to the FESP Program, which will bring about the
investment and buildcapacity on the ground to modernize and fully develop Cameroon's forest sector.

C. Collaborationwith Other DevelopmentPartners

36.      TheInternational Monetary Fund. The strong collaboration maintainedbetween the Bank and the
IMFduringthe past six years will continue under the proposed operation. Past IMF focus on transparency
and economic reforms was instrumental in helping the Government reform the forest sector. SACIII and
related forest sector issues and reforms featured prominently in the IMF's Poverty Reduction Growth
Facility as well as in the Government of Cameroon's letters o f intent to the IMF. The joint Bank-IMF
assessment o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper commented favorably on the objectives, policy
measures, and actions proposed for the FEDPG operation, and these were subsequently incorporated into
the HPC framework. Bank involvement in the forest sector through the proposed operation will help
maintain forest sector fiscal revenues at appropriate levels, contribute to budgetary discipline and
improved governance inthe forest sector.

37.      The European Union and Bilateral Development Partners. The EU, United Kingdom, Germany,
Canada, France and the Netherlands were among the first development partners to ahowledged that
fragmentation and poor coordination had underminedthe success o f their past assistance inthe forest and
environment sector. Along with the World Bank, they undertook to harmonise their assistance within the
framework o f the National Forest and Environment Sector Programme and to use this Program as the
framework through which they would increasingly channel support through common mechanisms. The
main common mechanisms will be: (i)        budgetary support aimed at supplementing national forest and
environment budget allocations, and expanding sector programs; and (ii)         pooled technical assistance.
These Partners committed to maintaining alignment and harmonization in the forest sector, utilizing
common monitoring and evaluation tools and organizing joint review missions. T o this end, the
                                                      10

representatives o f Canada, Germany, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the European Union,
the Afi-ican Development Bank, the World Bank, FAO, UNDP, WWF, S N V and I U C N signed, on
January 5, 2006, a long term agreement called code o f Conduct (Annex 3). Participation fi-om other
Partners i s strongly encouraged by the Government and i s expected to follow.

38.      The pooled technical assistance i s financed jointly by interested donors through an arrangement
known as `TA Basket Fund'. This Fund will be managed jointly by the Government and GTZ-IS (see
Annex 4). The approach allows for strong linksbetween funding, technical support, and results. While the
GEF and DFIDwill join the Bank inproviding financial support directly to the Government, donors with
less confidence in direct budget support instrument can contribute through the Basket Fund.DFID, CIDA
and the French Cooperation have indicated their interest in contributing to the Basket Fund, but the
French will only be able to do so after the completion o f the HIPC process. French financing will focus
on enabling forest companies to fulfill their obligations with respect to forest management plans - a
function that i s strongly supportive o f the forest management policy area o f the FEDPG operation. The
contract between the MINFOF and the GTZ-IS, the co-executing agency for the Basket Fund, was signed
in May 2005. The recruitment process for the international financial expert and the national
administrative expert i s completed and the experts are expected to be operational during the fourth quarter
o f 2005. Contributions to the Basket Fundhave been confirmed by DFID and Canada, and disbursement
o f DFID funds has started. In the unlikely event that contributions to the Basket Fund were to prove
insufficient, the Government committed to use its own resources to meet most essential technical
assistance needs.

39.      The UK government will provide direct fundinginsupport o fthe FESP through both instruments:
budget support usingthe same financial mechanisms established for the World Bank Development Policy
Grant (three tranches released based on achievement o f results), and through the technical assistance
Basket Fund. Its combined contribution to the FESP will be L7.7 million (equivalent to US$14 million)
and of this L3.7 million (equivalent to US$6.8 million) will go through direct budget support.

D.Linkswith OtherWorldBankOperations

40.      The FEDPG operation has strong links to four World Bank projects: the Chad Cameroon Pipeline
Project, the Cameroon Environment Oil Technical Assistance Project (CAPECE), the Cameroon Railway
Concession Project, the Cameroon Community Development Program Support Project (PNDP), as well
as the forthcoming Poverty Reduction Support Credit.

41.      The Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project. Two national parks, Mbam Djerem and Campo Ma'an,
were established to offset the impacts o f the Chad Cameroon Pipeline project on biodiversity and the
environment. Requested by the Government, the World Conservation Society (WCS) has completed the
first draft o f the management plan for Mbam Djerem. This document will be subjected to public
consultation prior to final approval in the coming months. Inthe case o f Campo Ma'an the management
plan has beenprepared incollaboration with the World Wildlife Fund(WWF). This plan has already been
submitted to public consultation and endorsed by all relevant authorities. It i s expected to be signed by the
Prime Minister and become operational momentarily. Both plans are co-funded by the Chad-Cameroon
Pipeline Consortium through the Foundation for Development and Conservation (FEDEC),                         a
Government-sanctioned national NGO which i s also financing an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP) for the Baka, Kola, and Aka Pygmy populations inthe southern Atlantic forest. Core staffing and
additional budget resources and overall responsibility for managing these environmental offsets will be
provided by MINFOF. Under the FEDPG, the Government agreed to forestall any investments in forests
usedby indigenous peoples until such time as the IPDP i s completed. Inthe framework o f the FEDPG




                                                      11

operation the Government will also complete the procedure to transform a part o f the DengDeng Forests
(where primates can still be found) into a wildlife reserve and secure its integrity. At the time o f printing
the present document, discussions regarding the future of Bank support to Chad portion of the Chad
Cameroon Pipeline were still inprogress between the Bank and the Government o f Chad. The outcome o f
these discussion i s not expected to have an impact on the rationale, feasibility, and funding of operations
at Campo Ma'an andMbam Djerem.

42.       The Community Development Program Support Project (PNDP). The FEDPG provides the
framework for communities to engage in community forest activities. In addition, helping collect and
allocate to local communities a portion o f forest area-based fees, the operation will help consolidate
communities' investment capacity and match PNDP-funding for local investments. Links with the PNDP
will provide an effective instrument to monitor and periodically audit the use o f funds accrued to local
communities as a share forest taxation o f commercial forestry taking place intheir vicinity.

43.      The Cameroon Railway Concession Project. The environmental management plan o f the Bank
supported privatization of the railway system o f Cameroon (CAMRAIL) provides for expert assistance
and independent monitoring to implement and evaluate activities that discourage the use o f the railway
system by illegal poachers and loggers. The present operation will consolidate and continue activities
undertaken by the private operators under the Cameroon Railway Concession Project after its completion.

44.      Broader L i n h with the Bank Program in Cameroon. The FEDPG will help pave the way for the
switch from traditional investments to programmatic lending in Cameroon. It will do so by providing an
opportunity to observe and test the reformed national procurement and financial management procedures
the Government will use to finance the PRSP. The fiduciary risk assessment carried out inpreparation for
the present operation (see annex 12) builds upon the C F M P E M F A R work carried out in collaboration
with the Bank. It identifies     measures to be implemented to address enduring systemic weaknesses and
highlightsaction to be taken in case procurement and financial management were to exhibit other major
shortcomings.

E.PastExperienceandLessonsLearned

45.      World Bank support to the forest sector in Cameroon began with three provincial rural
development projects in 1978, 1980 and 1984. These involved development of small-scale industrial
plantations and erosion control. In 1982, the first full-fledged forest project was approved. It ended in
1990 following troubled implementation and cancellation o f about US$12.0 million o f a US$17.0 million
loan. Between 1990 and 1997, the Bank focused exclusively on policy dialogue to improve Cameroon's
policy framework and to eliminate major distortions.

46.      Some o f the lessons learned during the extended period o f collaboration indicate that for forest
sector programs to succeed: (i)clear rules o f the game must be established and enforced by effective
institutions that enjoy high level political support; (ii)a clear division o f roles must be maintained
between public institutions and private entities, and civil society organizations; (iii)                    transparency and
public information are indispensable to prevent or counter corruption, and to restrict vested interests; and
(iv) direct and indirect costs of conservation should not impose a burden on local and national economies,
but should be more equitably sharedwith support by the global community.

47.      The design o f the proposed operation was informed by the lessons learned through: (i)                     the 2002
evaluation o f overall World Bank involvement in the forest sector in Cameroon (OED, I S B N 0-7658-


5 The biodiversity value of the Deng Deng area has been recognizedduring the preparation of the Chad Cameroon Pipeline
Project.The originally proposedpipeline trajectory was modified to avoid disturbance of this area. Not all the DengDengarea is
equallyrich inbiodiversity:largeareas are degraded, but others continue to harborprotectedspecies such as primates,

                                                             12

0940-0); (ii)the implementation of SAC I11 as evaluated in the project's 2004 Implementation
Completion Report; (iii)   the 2003 QAG evaluation o f quality o f supervision by the Bank (QAG SAC I11
Review o f Quality o f Supervision Report); and (iv) the evaluation o f the GEF supported Cameroon
Biodiversity ConservationProgram (PCGBC).

48.      The September 2004 Implementation Completion Report ratedthe development objective o f SAC
111's forest component as "satisfactory" and its institutional sustainability "likely" but contingent on
continued engagement. It was apparent that continued support by the Bank and other partners were
required to build the capacity o f that Ministry's two successor agencies, the Ministry o f Forests and
Ministryof Environment, which are now responsible for the full and continued implementation of SAC
I11reforms through the operations o fthe FESP.

49.      Specific lessons applied to the proposed operation were:

         0  To ensure success o f reforms and reform implementation efforts, development partners
             should work not only with the executive branch o f the Government, but with a broader range
            of partners including the legislature, the public at large, NGOs, and community development
            partners.

         0  Getting the correct framework and high-level Government buy-in are more important than
            physical investments. Through the forest component o f SAC 111,the Bank realized that unless
            healthy institutions are created and distortions eliminated, results on the ground cannot be
            achieved.

         0  Forest sector reforms require a clear understanding o f issues and options by all stakeholders.
             Clarity o f expected outcomes, a focus on fundamental objectives, and flexibility to adapt to
            changing situations are important factors for the success o f forest sector reforms and
            operations.

         0  Creating a strongly appropriate regulatory, institutional, legal, and incentive framework i s
            critical for achieving desired goals. Establishing an effective and legitimate rule o f law
            provides a balance between positive incentives that reward compliance to the law, and the
             deterrent value o f penalties for breaking the law.

         0   In the context of Cameroon's forest sector, a result-based instrument such as sectoral
             structural adjustment tends to be far more effective and feasible than other types of lending
             instruments.

         0   Biodiversity values should be given more prominence in land use planning. Individual area-
            based project interventions can be very complex to manage and are less likely to have an
             enduring impact than broad landscape-based nationalprograms.

F.AnalyticalUnderpinnings

50.      The FEDPG builds upon a comprehensive body o f analytical work undertaken by the
Government o f Cameroon, various donors and the World Bank. This analytical work covers forest and
environment as well other relevant extra sectoral themes.

51.      Forest and environment analytical work includes the following studies among others: a sector
expenditure review coordinated with the broader expenditure review carried out under the HPC, the
preparation o f a forest Medium-Term Development Framework, a forest taxation review, forest revenue
analyses and audits of forest revenues transferred to local governing bodies, a forest sectoral
environmental and social assessment, analyses o f forest and environmental policies and institutions, an
assessment o f the protected area network, studies on the impact o f forest law enforcement on illegal
logging and rural livelihoods, a fiduciary risk analysis, and a communications assessment. Inparallel with

                                                      13

the preparation o f the FEDPG operation, the Bank conducted a piece o f economic and sector work to
analyze and measure the impact o f the reforms Cameroon adopted over the past ten years. The Bank
(DEC, WBI, ARD and AFR) also undertook a particularly detailed analysis o f how the introduction o f the
auctioning system in the allocation o f logging rights contributed to the broader transformation o f the
forest sector. Both studies should be publishedby the Bank shortly.

       IV.THE PROPOSEDIDAAND GEFFORESTAND ENVIRONMENTPOLICY
                                     DEVELOPMENTGRANTS

A. OperationDescription

52.      The development objective o f the proposed Forest and Environment Policy Development Grant
(FEDPG) is to strengthen public and private efforts to achieve socially-, economically-, and ecologically-
sustainable use o f national forest and wildlife resources. The FEDPG represents the IDA and GEF
contribution to the implementation of the FESP. Initiated and led by the Government o f Cameroon, the
FESP i s a multi-donor national forest and environment sector development program that brings an array
o f existing sector development projects and ad-hoc donor-supported and donor-led efforts into a common
framework.

53.      The FEDPG will help consolidate and scale up the forest sector policy reforms introduced under
SACIII, support capacity-building, and strengthen the public good functions o f forest institutions,
expanding work programs in environmental monitoring, policy oversight, law enforcement, forest
management, biodiversity conservation, and community-based forest activities. The FEDPG i s built
          ...
around five policy areas that mirror the five components o f the FESP. These are:

             Environmental Regulations and Information Management
          .. Management o f Production Forests
             Management o f Protected Areas and Wildlife
             Management o f Community Forest Resources
             Institution Strengthening, Training, and Research

54.      The program i s defined through conditions for Board approval, milestones and conditions for
tranche release. Conditions for Board approval have been met before negotiations demonstrating the
Government commitment to the operation's goals and its preparedness to implementation. Milestones
cover program implementation steps and outcomes. The most important o f these milestones have been
selected to serve as specific conditions for tranche release. Other measures agreed upon with the
Government must be met at all time during program implementation and reviewed at the time o f tranche
release. These are: (i)  the reform framework established through the SAC I11 i s maintained; (ii)     the
government forest and environment program i s adequately funded and satisfactorily implemented overall
as reflected through the agreed milestones and annual workplans; and (iii)a sound macroeconomic
framework i s maintained.

55.      For the first time and at variance with OD 9.01, the proposed operation will use GEF Grant
resources to finance a development policy operation. To allow this to happen, the GEF Council reviewed
carefully and approved the design o f the operation on M a y 19-21, 2004 and a waiver o f OD 9.01 was
granted on April 13,2005.

56.      IDA financial assistance will be US$25.O million. Bank-administered resources from GEF
(US$lO million) will be fully blended with IDA'Sand will support the Forest and Environment Sector
Program according to the same modalities, matrix o f conditions and other features proposed for the
FEDPG. DFID resources (US6.8 million) will be provided to the Government according to the same
modalities and tranches used for IDA and GEF, bringingthe amounts available to the Government in the

                                                    14

form o f budget support for the implementation o f its FESP to US$41.8 million. Fundingper contributor
per tranche would be as follows.




   Funding Source         First Tranche          SecondTranche        Third Tranche            Total
                           US$ million            US$million            USS million          US$million

IDA Grant                       9.8                   8.1                   7.1                 25.O

GEF Grant                       3.8                   3.1                   3.1                 10.0

DFID Grant                      1.2                   2.8                   2.8                 6.8

Total US$ Equiv               14.8                    14.0                 13.0                 41.8


B. Policy Areas
(i) Policy Area 1:Environmental Regulations and Information Management

57.      FEDPG will help the Government strengthen MINEP's capacity to monitor the green
environment, observe the environmental impact o f its national forest and environment program FESP, and
ensure that this Program's environmental management plan i s implemented thoroughly and successfully.
While Cameroon possesses adequate environmental laws and safeguards, institutional weakness make
such instruments irrelevant on the ground. Effective monitoring i s hampered by data and baseline values
that can inform environmental planning, targeting, priority setting, and assess results. Additional
constraints lay in the quantity and quality equipment and qualified staff o f the newly created Ministry o f
Environment.

58.      Conditionsfor Board approval in this policy area demonstrate Cameroon's recognition of and
shared commitment to information management. In addition to issuing clear regulations governing the
FEDPG Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) and adopting the related Environmental Impact
Mitigation Plan (EMP), the Government earmarked funding for first year EMP activities in its 2005
national budget. A team of qualified   and fully equipped staff responsible for monitoring implementation
o f the EMP has been located inpremises provided by MINEP, and terms o f reference for the first routine
environmental controls are in place. The Government also designed and disclosed an Environmental
Impact Assessment, Resettlement Policy Framework, and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, in two
prominent national newspapers inbothnational languages (French and English).

59.      Milestones marking implementation o f the government program inthis policy area will reflect the
stages through which the Environment Ministry will acquire capacity to monitor the environmental
impact o f the FESP, implement its Environmental Management Plan, centralize environmental
monitoring responsibilities including those currently provided by the CPSP in relation to the Cameroon
Pipeline, and integrate the various project information management systems into the consolidated CIDE.

60.      Conditions for the second and thirdtranche releases include the evaluation o f how effectively and
widely the mitigation measures laid out by the Environment Management Plan will have been
implemented. Terms o f reference for evaluating the impacts o f the FEDPG will be arrived at in
participatory fashion and the evaluation's results will be made publicly available.

61.      Outcomes expected of this policy area include that at the completion o f the operation, the
Environment and Forest Ministries will have the capacity to monitor and evaluate the social and
environmental impacts o f national forest policies and individual programs in the field           of green
environment. Avenues for public consultation and civil society collaboration will have been created or


                                                     15

improved, and the public will have fuller access to information on the management o f public
environmental goods (for more details on outcomes see policy matrix inAnnex 1).

(io Policy Area 2: Management of Production Forests

62.      The operation will focus on the protection and long-term management o f production forests. It
will ensure the generalized implementation and monitoring o f forest management plans throughout the
production forest estate and will complete Cameroon's land-use instrument through a zoning plan for the
northernregions where deforestation i s more intense. While forest management plans are now mandatory
in Cameroon, and many forest companies have complied with their obligation to produce such plans,
most plans were only recently approved by the Government, and the control o f field operations i s only
starting.

63.      More specifically the operation will help: (i)complete the forest estate zoning plan; (ii)      ensure
implementation on the ground o f forest management policies and plans; (iii)promote efficiency and
value-added in timber processing and reduce waste; (iv) ensure efficient control o f forest production field
operations by industry, as well as law enforcement and application o f penalties; and (v) valorize non-
timber forest products (NTFP).

64.      Conditionsfor Board approval inthis policy area indicate Cameroon's commitment to creating a
rigorous but fair and predictable environment for serious forest industries engaged in sustainable forest
use and product processing. Conditions for Board approval include the examination, approval or justified
rejection o f forest management plans for all concessions awarded prior to 2001, the publication o f a status
report including all forest violations detected and penalties applied from January 2000 to August 2005
and the adoption o f a comprehensive forest control regulation which sets out the procedures for detecting
and reportingviolations o f the forest law, the chain o f control and the modalities for applying sanctions,

65.      Milestones marking the implementation o f the FESP in this policy area cover various facets o f a
comprehensive action plan to make sustainable forest management a reality: (i)         an industrialization plan
that promotes economic growth while reducing inputs and waste o f raw materials; (ii)            a participatory
forest land use plan adapted to the realities of the northern regions; a computerized log tracking system
allowing secure real time follow up of data showing physical and fiscal flows of timber from harvest sites
to export markets; (iii)  forest control operations and public disclosure of sanctions applied against illegal
logging and poaching; and (iv) improved collaboration between the State and forest industry by
institutingservice standards the state will commit to abide by, and increasing the quantity and quality o f
opportunities for consultation with industry.

66.      Conditions for tranche release inthis policy area relate to the management plans inplace for UFA
concessions and community forests. Forest Management Plans o f all UFA concessions awarded before
January 2002 and Simple Management Plans of all community forests approved before June 2005 will
have been reviewed by the Forest Administration prior to the release o f the second tranche. Comparative
satellite imagery taken in 2003 and 2007 will be used to determine whether illegal logging i s under
control inunallocated UFAs and protected areas -this i s a specific condition for third tranche release.

67.      Outcomes in this policy area include that at the end o f the operation: (i) operations in the
                                                                                        forest
public forest estate will be contingent upon the implementation o f management plans by the
concessionaire; (ii)  illegal logging will be halted in the most vulnerable forests (i.e. concessions not yet
allocated to private companies and unmanaged national parks), and will be significantly reduced in the
rest of the state forests -at the end o f the operation, it i s expected that: 100 percent o f production forests
will be allocated for management, 75 percent of them will be covered by management plans, and the
remainder will have management plans in preparation; (iii)forest laws and regulations will be fully
enforced, and violators actively and publicly pursued; (iv) a draft land use plan prepared collaboratively
by concerned ministriesusinga highly participatoryprocess will be available for the north o fthe country;
                                                       16

and (v) high quality information on the status of forests and protected areas will be available and
accessible to the public.

(iii) Policy Area 3: Management of ProtectedAreas and Wildlife

68.      The operation will help secure Cameroon's protected area network by improving regulations,
increasing human and organizational capacity, adopting a landscape approach and a well-structured
phased approach to gradually increase the effectiveness o f protected areas management. The result will be
a framework in which new public and private partners can participate in expanding or accelerating the
implementation o f the national program for biodiversity protection.

69.      With 14 percent o f national territory designated as protected areas, Cameroon is a major
contributor to the conservation o f global diversity assets and a recipient o f international funding for
conservation. However the donor-driven, location-specific, and time-bound nature o f past projects has not
allowed Cameroon to create a national capacity to manage conservation programs adequately and for the
long term. Protected area and wildlife management are constrained by weak infrastructure, markedly
insufficient and unreliable funding, an absence o f management plans, and inadequate frameworks for
collaboration between the Government, local communities, professionals in the field adventure tourism,
and NGOs.

70.       Conditionsfor Board approval demonstrate the Country's high degree o f preparedness to move
ahead with program implementation. They include a review o f the protected area network to ensure that it
covers over 90 percent o f the country's biodiversity, the preparation o f work programs for eight national
parks and surrounding landscapes (UTOs) and the completion o f baselines measuring the current
management effectiveness o f all Cameroon's nationalparks.

71,       The operation will help implementation o f the 2003 Wildlife and Protected Areas strategy and
promote its continuous updating to assure appropriateness and relevance. It will support Government
institutions in planning and zoning protected areas through information and knowledge management,
sustainable financing, legal reforms, and design o f management plans for wildlife and protected areas.
These plans will have provisions for the participation o f local communities inprotected area and hunting
zone management and contain strategies for optimizing the economic benefits that communities enjoy.

72.       The operation will focus on the upgrade o f management effectiveness o f eight UTOs totaling 50
percent o f the territory o f the protected areas, while setting the stage and facilitating implementation of
effectiveness upgrade o f the entire protected area network.

73.       Milestones marking implementation o f the government program in this policy area will include:
(i)steps related to protectedarea management capacity building; (ii)instruments that clarify local
people's rights and obligations in protected areas; (iii)   various social surveys and the measurement of
protected area management effectiveness; (iv) design, adoption and implementation o f park management
business plans and community-based wildlife management plans; (v) application o f particularly strong
anti-poaching measures along the railways and in the Campo Ma'an area; (vi) physical demarcation of
selected protected areas; and (vii) a national public health campaign to inform public o f the hazards
related to consumption o f illegal bushmeat. Milestones will also include: (i)  the preparation or adaptation
of regulations conforming with the 2003 Wildlife and Protected Area Strategy concerning ZIC/ZICC
(private and community managed game reserves), and community access to wildlife management; (ii)
creation o f autonomous PA and wildlife management; and (iii) revenues in protected area;
                                                                        raising
diversification o f income sources for park management and local development; financial controls and
partnership with foundations.

74.       Conditions for release of the second and third tranches relate to the creation o f three additional
UTOs and to significant improvements in the management effectiveness o f eight focal UTOs.
                                                       17

Improvements will be measured inthe field usingthe WWF/WB Alliance Kitmethodology and compared
to pre-operation baseline values. Conditions also include the update o f the Biodiversity strategy and
transformation o f part o f the Deng Deng forest into a wildlife reserve.

75.      Outcomes o f the operation foresee management effectiveness scores in the selected locations to
have moved from the baseline average value o f 28 to 45, and logging companies employing biodiversity
conservation measures in those concessions located in proximity to ecologically sensitive areas. Local
communities will participate meaningfully in the management o f protected areas and hunting zones, and
endangered species will be effectively protected. The outcome o f the operation will also include creating
the foundation for modem, autonomous management o f protected areas by a broader range o f potential
partners.

(iv) Policy Area 4: Management of Community Forest Resources

76.      The operation will deepen understanding o f community forestry issues and strategies, improve
quality o f ongoing community efforts in natural forests, improve and scale up community based tree
planting schemes, help communities and local cooperatives manage woodlands to trade sustainably
produced fuelwood around urban centers (fuelwood masterplan); and re-assign to communities or other
managers state plantations formerly controlled by ONADEF (a recently dissolved parastatal). At the core
of this component are improvements o f the institutional and regulatory frameworks on one hand, and
implementation o f high-quality community-based forest management plans on the other. By design, these
plans will systematically integrate production and biodiversity concerns whatever the primary purpose o f
the community area under management (small scale timber processing, timber extraction, sustainable fuel
wood production, managedhunting,medicinal plant production, etc.).

77.      According to the Cameroonian forest and wildlife policies and regulations, community forests are
established in what i s called "the non-permanent forest domain" where communities have the right to
alter the tree cover based on their needs and preferences, where conversion o f forest to other uses i s
allowed. While Community forests are usually inthe vicinity o f villages and, under normal circumstances
have only limited biodiversity interest, their management can incorporate features that can result in a
significant contribution to biodiversity conservation. For this reason, community forest management plans
will systematically integrate biodiversity concerns whatever the primary purpose o f the area under
management might be. More specifically, the preparation o f management plans will include a survey o f
community forest by teams composed o f MINFOF staff and a reputable environmental NGO. These
teams will work with the communities to identify the presence o f threatened and protected species in
proposed community forests and outline measures that ensure protection o f endangered species as part o f
the management plans and future monitoring arrangements. The teams will also advise the communities
on conservation o fprotected species living beyond the boundaries o f community forests.

78.      The operation will help translate into action community forest concepts that are well grounded in
Cameroon's forest policy but that lack adequate incentives and straightforward mechanisms to attract
meaningful local participation. Community forestry concepts and programs are relatively new in
Cameroon. Despite explicit Government commitment to helping communities manage forests for their
own benefit, significant portions o f benefits fi-om community forests have been captured by logging and
trucking businesses. Although the number o f community forests has continued to increase over the past
five years, current efforts appear to be generally unsustainable and fail to significantly contribute to rural
poverty alleviation.

79.      Work in this policy area will help improve community forestry approaches, regulatory
frameworks, and activities inthe field stressing quality over quantity, especially inthe case o f community
forest initiatives which have proved problematic in the past. The program will be guided by the
recommendations o f a comprehensive 2004 DFID-financed Review o f Community Forestry undertaken

                                                      18

by the Government. Community forest initiatives such the Fuelwood Masterplan will seek to replicate
successful schemes undertaken inNiger and Mali.

80.     Conditions for Board approval include the publication o f a study on the use o f forest sector
revenues by local communities in fiscal year 2003, completion o f the conversion o f ONADEF into
ANAFOR, and the selection o f a qualified contractor to carry out a community forest scheme financed
through HIPC funds (Projet Gestion Communautaire des RessourcesForestieres et Fauniques,or RIGC).

81.     Milestones marking implementation in this policy area will include the incorporation o f
recommendations o f the 2004 Community Forestry Review into community-based forest management
schemes. All requests by local communities interestedin initiating new community forestry activities, or
in exercising priority rights on sales o f standing timber Ventes de Coupe (VC) will be followed up
diligently. To strengthen the community forest framework, MINFOF will introduce new regulations and
implement a field program to develop five fuelwood masterplans and community woodland management
operations around urban centers in the northern regions. New regulations and incentives to make tree
planting more attractive will also be adopted, and a planting program targeting a minimum o f 1,500
people, local groups and investors will be developed by MINFOF in collaboration with and implemented
through ANAFOR. Milestones also include a series o f evaluations o f community forest initiatives carried
out by the Government incollaborationwith technical and financing partners.

82.      Conditions set down for release of the second tranche involve the successful implementation o f at
least 10 highquality community-based management plans as reflected intheir respective progress reports.
These management plans will integrate social, economic and biodiversity conservation concerns
adequately. Release o f the third tranche requires the reassignment o f all plantations on state-owned
gazetted forest lands previously managed by ONADEF.

83.      Outcomes relating to this policy area apply to a comprehensive incentive framework in place to
stimulate communities to engage in and benefit from: (i)   community-based management o f natural forests
and huntingzones; (ii)  tree planting; and (iii) woodland management and trade o f wood fuels. It i s also
expected that the reassignment o f plantations and delegation o f management responsibility from the State
to other entities will mark the end o f Government engagement in costly production activities in which its
comparative advantage proved to be limited.

(v) Policy Area 5: Strengthening Institutions, Training and Research

84.     The proposed operation will support capacity building across forest institutions. It will stimulate
the Government to make investments in infrastructure and human resources enabling MINEP and
MINFOF to develop sufficient capacity to fulfill their mandates inthe framework o f the forest policy and
the regulatory instruments created through SACIII. Capacity building will begin with upgrading
management procedures and practices to bring MINEP and MINFOF into compliance with the
requirements o f recently approved national procurement and public finance management reforms. Work
in this policy area will entail rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, staff redeployment, staff training,
and procurement of equipment. The operation will also support the final stages o f restructuring the
National Office for the Development of Forests (ONADEF) into the streamlined National Agency for
Forest Development (ANAFOR), and the launch of ANAFOR as a promoter o f plantation schemes
implemented and largely financed by individuals, organized groups, and the private sector.

85.      Support under this policy area will address the disconnect between Cameroon's well advanced
forest policies and the weakness o f institutions, including scarce, poorly equipped and un-motivated staff
inthe field, and decrepit infrastructure.

86.      Conditions for Board approval demonstrate strong commitment to re-launching forest and
environment programs as well as a sound understanding o f the challenges at hand. They include the
                                                      19

preparation of annual workplans by the technical Ministries and the parliamentary approval o f budget
resources consistent with the FESP and the FEDPG operation. All key positions inMINEP and MINFOF
have been filled. MINFOF and MINEP introduced a Finance Ministry-approved computerized financial
management system that i s in line with the requirements o f the public finance management reform. The
steps by which national budget and external funding are made available to MINFOF and MINEP are
clearly defined. The Government also prepared a procurement plan and the first bid documents consistent
with the recent procurementreform.

87.      Milestones in this policy area will reflect key steps toward enabling Government institutions to
provide essential public services and interact productively with local communities, industry and the civil
society at large, This will include improvement o f infrastructure, rendering Forest and Environment
Ministry planning and evaluation units operational, and ensuring that MINFOF and MINEP are able to
produce and review their annual workplans effectively. It will also include the rehabilitation o f 40 percent
of MINFOF's field offices (postes forestiers), provision o f training programs on forest related policies
and regulations, and improving human resource management through improved accountability and
recognition o f performance. Interaction with civil society will be through bi-monthly meetings with
industry, multi-partner provincial level consultations at the time of work plan and preparation and
monitoring. Finally it will include various public information activities on usingthe internet, the press and
the radio to maintain and enhance sector transparency.

88.      Conditions set for release o f the second tranche relate to financial management within the Forest
and Environment Ministries, which will have fully deployed computerized financial management and
control systems by the tranche release date. The SICAF system will be fully rolled out at central,
provincial, and departmental levels, and be fully compatible with the DEPMIsystem usedby the Ministry
of Finance and Economy. Release o f the third tranche i s conditional on the improved status o f those
infrastructure.and facilities that are slated for rehabilitation especially at the field level.

89.      Outcomes inthis policy area revolve around a revitalized Forest and Environment Ministries, well
endowed with the human and technical resources sufficient in quantity and quality to perform the role
expected o f them in the following areas: oversight o f forest and environmental policies, enforcement o f
laws applicable to forests and wildlife, assessment o f the social and environmental impacts o f human
activities in forest ecosystems, productive interaction with industry and other private sector economic
partners, collaboration with communities, NGOs and civil society inthe management and conservation o f
forests and wildlife resources. It i s also expected that ANAFOR will be fully established in its advisory
role inthe field o f private and community plantation schemes.

C. Agreed Actions and Conditions
90.      Agreed actions and conditions under the proposed FEDPG operation will peg tranche release to
progress in the implementation o f the overall Government FESP and to the satisfaction o f specific
conditions. Its progress will be appreciated through milestones which will measure the performance o f the
FESP as a whole and its annual workplans. Conditions for Board approval (completed before
negotiations), conditions for disbursement, and milestones are presented in the Operation's Policy Matrix
shown in Annex 1. This matrix i s featured in the Government's letter o f Development Policy for Forests
and the Green Environment. Major development partners adopted the matrix as a means to measure
progress and coordinate financial and technical support.

91.      In addition, the disbursement of the Grant is subject to broader conditions (see Box 1) to be
satisfied at all time during program implementation and reviewed at the time o f tranche release. These
conditions seek to ensure that the integrity o f the operation's reform package i s maintained and that
appropriate conditions continue to exist for successful implementation o f the Government program.



                                                       20

I                           Box I Condzfionsto be met at alf time and reSnewedat the time tranche rehase
                                                                                         of

     The Government forest and environment program as reflected through the agreed milestones and annual workplans i s
     generally on track and consistentwith the reformframeworkestablishedthroughthe SAC Ill.
     A soundmacroeconomic frameworki s maintained.



92.      Financing will be arranged inthree tranches, the first to be released on completion o f prior action
and the other two following satisfaction of tranche release conditions.

                                Box 2: CondifionsforBoardAppmvaland Releaseoftbe First Tranche


     Government adoption of the FEDPG Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan (EMP) and funding for first year's relevant
     activities includedinthe draft 2005 national budget for the forest sector.
     Suitablepremisesand ateam of adequatelytrainedand fully equipped staffare assignedto effectivelymonitor implementation
     of the FEDPGEMP.
     Regulationson environmentalimpact assessmentare issued.
     The Environment Impact Assessment, including the EMP, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Indigenous Peoples
     Development Plan disclosed in two national newspapers and made accessible to the public in municipal administration
     facilities.
     Terms of reference for main EMP activities beginninginJanuary2005 madepublicly available.
     Examination of Forest Management Plans (FMP) for all concessions (UFAs) awarded prior to 2000 and approval of those
     deemed to conformwith requirements
     Status report describingall forest violations, penalties applied, transactionsconcludedandpendingbetweenJanuary 2000 and
     August 2005. Updatedledger of forest violationscreated.
     Forest Ministry's comprehensive regulatory system adopted: chain of custody control, control methods and procedures, and
     proceduresfor applyingsanctions againstforest crimes.
     Work programs for eight FocusUTOs preparedandreadyfor implementation.
     Baselinedata availableto measurethe managementeffectivenessof all nationalprotectedareas.
     Study completed on the use of FY2003 forest sector fiscal revenuesby local communities.
     ANAFOR restructuringcompleted, with personnel reassigned accordingto plans, management structures, the FY2005 work
     program, and financial control structures.
     Qualified contractor selected to carry out the HIPC-funded Capacity Building for Forest Community Management (RIGC)
     project.
     Forest Ministrymanagementpositionsfilled andjob descriptionsrevised.
     A new coded budget and accounting system approved by the Finance and Economy Ministry (MINEFI) and adopted by the
     Forest andEnvironmentMinistries.
     The Directors of Budget and Treasury instructed by MINEFI to allocate budget lines to MINFOF and MINEP, into which
     externalfunding will be made availableby externalpartners.
     MINFOF and MINEP financial managementand control computerized; the SICAF systemis operationaland fully compatible
     with the DEPMI systemusedby MINEFI.
     MINFOF and MINEP 2005 Annual Work Plans consistent with the FEDPG, and include national and externalresources as
     part oftheir 2005 budget proposalsto Parliament.
     Procurementplanpreparedandbid documentsreadyfor launchfor the main goods and servicesof the FY05 workplan.




                                                               21

                                               Box 3: Conditionsfor Release oftbe Second Tranche


       Allocation o f funds for implementation o f annual work plans is consistent with Medium Term Expenditure Framework
       estimates and at least 75 percent o f the budget allocated inthe previous year will have been made available in a timely fashion
       and used for program implementation.
       The FY 2005 EMP activities implemented and adequate institutional capacity for social and environmental monitoring
       created.
       Examination completed o f Forest Management Plans o f all UFAs allocated prior to January 2002, and o f all Simple
       Management Plans (Plans Simples de Gestion) for community forests attributed before June 2005. Signed contracts with
       companies meeting requirements and implementation o f appropriate measures, including the withdrawal o f concession if
       appropriate, for companies failing to meet requirements.
       Two additional Focus UTOs created (Management Effectiveness Score, MES <20); three are equipped with essential
       management tools (20<MES <40), three have achieved a modest but still reasonable management effectiveness
       (40<MES@.
       Ten community-based management plans successfully implemented.
       MINFOF and MINEP computerized financial management and control systems are well established, the SICAF system used
       at central, provincial and departmental levels, and all are consistent with the DEPMI system usedby The Ministry o f Finance
       and Economy.


                                                Box 4: Conditionsjr Release ofthe Third Tranrhe


       Allocation o f funds for implementation o f annual work plans is consistent with Medium Term Expenditure Framework
       estimates and at least 75 percent o f the budget allocated inthe previous year will have been made available in a timely fashion
       and used for program implementation.
       The impact o f the FEDPG i s evaluated based on TORS developed through a participatory process and the report is made
       public.
       Illegal logging is totally under control in all unallocated UFAs in 2004 and inall protected areas.
       One additional Focus UTOs i s created (Management Effectiveness Score, MES <20); one i s equipped with essential
       management tools (20<MES <40), three have achieved a modest but still reasonable management effectiveness
       (40<MES<55); and three have achieved a good level o f management effectiveness (MES >55)' . The national Biodiversity
       strategy i s updated, and part of the Deng Deng forest where primates cans still be found has been transformed into a wildlife
       reserve.
       At least 90 percent of the plantations established on state-owned forest gazetted land and previously managed by ONADEF
       are reassigned to appropriate management structures to competitively-awarded plantation contracts, to new UFAs or integratec
       into existing UFAs, contracted to local communities management; degazetted in urban centers, integrated into parks and othei
       protected areas or environmental protection zones with no production purposes.
       Rehabilitation o f at least 50 offices or other infrastructure at the technical directorates, and provincial and departmental levels.




6 Minimumscores to be achieved in each   UT0 are as follows: Ndongoro (6), Bakossi Kupe (17,Bouba Bek & Nlii(29), hlbm Djerem(31), Campo
Ma'an (33, Korup (44), Benoue (47) et Waza (50)


7 Indicative scores to be achieved in each UT0 are: Ndongoro  (13,Bakossi Kupe (26), BoubaBek & Nlii (43), hham   Djerern (46), Campo Ma'an
(52),Korup (57),Binoui (59) and VC'aza (62).


                                                                    22

                      V. IMPLEMENTATIONOFTHE PROPOSEDGRANT
A. Implementation,MonitoringandEvaluation
93.      Implementation. The Finance, Forest and Environment Ministries will be responsible for
implementing this operation on behalf o f the Government. Their responsibilities will be inline with their
normal institutional mandates. Applicable procedures will be those o f the Government o f Cameroon.
World Bank support will be channeled through the Ministry o f Finance and Economy which will maintain
overall responsibility for coordinating Government activities, and for commissioning external audits to
assure ministerial compliance with financial management, administrative, and procurement procedures.
The Forest and Environment Ministries in turn will be directly responsible for implementing the FEDPG
program and for satisfying the conditions o f tranche release. To this end, MINFOF's and MINEP's work
programs and budgets submitted annually for Parliament's approval will be structured to reflect the
milestones agreed upon for the overall program and the conditions for tranche release. Provincial
delegations o f the Forest Ministry will carry out activities in the field, and both the Forest and
Environment Ministries will expand collaboration with local governing bodies, community organizations,
NGOs, and the private sector.

94.      The two Ministries' work in implementing the FEDPG program will focus on essential
regulatory, law enforcement, and public service functions. Program activities like resource inventories,
facilitating the elaboration o f management plans, environmental education, and managing community
forests and huntingareas will be contracted out to other partners and service providers. The Government
will commit to procure essential specialized technical assistance in the fields o f financial management,
procurement, auditing, internationalmonitoring and auditing to ensure the quality o f implementation.

95.      Sustainability and replicability concerns have been integrated into program design from various
perspectives. From an institutional and financial perspective the FESP has been mainstreamed into
permanent national institutional settings, a medium term sector policy, medium terms funding priorities
and national financial management mechanisms. It has also been integrated into a ten-year multidonor
sector development program which enjoys strong support, funding and funding commitments from key
Development Partners. These Partners have chosen to use the FESP as a means to harmonize their
sectoral goals, objectives, funding and monitoring arrangements. To this end, the representatives o f
Canada, Germany, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the African
Development Bank, the World Bank, FAO, UNDP, WWF, S N V and IUCN have signed, on January 5,
2006, a long-term agreement called Code o f Conduct (Annex 3). The potential for replication o f
biodiversity conservation and program mainstreaming into regional development planning and
management i s high given the Program's adoption o f internationally recognized environmental
monitoring tools (the PAME Tool Kit), its support to certification processes and its strong links with
broader public sector reform processes, decentralization, national environmental policies, legislation and
safeguards.

96.       At FESP's completion recurrent costs will have grown only modestly (around US$3 million per
year) compared to the pre-FESP situation. US$2 million o f these would finance the management o f
protected areas, a field in which there i s growing international support and for which the FESP intends to
develop innovative long term fundingmechanisms. Financialprogram sustainability i s ensuredby the fact
that the Government i s by far the largest contributor to the FESP. The 2006-20 10 Forest and Environment
 Sector Medium Terms Expenditure Framework shows that a steady flow o f national financing will
continue after the end o f planned IDA and GEF support, when the most intense phase of new investments
will have been completed. One should also note that national funding for most FESP supported activities
i s generated within the forest and environment sector. Based on existing legislation, part o f the funding i s
mechanically apportioned to FESP institutions and programs and submitted to Parliament as part o f the
national budget approval process.


                                                     23

97.     Monitoring and evaluation for the FEDPGprogram was designed to: (i) accountability and
                                                                                   foster
transparency in the management process; (ii)   provide the Government and donors common and realistic
reference and measurable parameters to measure progress; (iii)     record progress in relation to milestones
and conditions for tranche release; (iv) engage stakeholders in information sharing; (v) integrate financial
planning and execution with physical and geographic information on work program implementation,
milestones and tranche release conditions; and (vi) identify implementation problems and propose
corrective measures.

98.      The starting point for the monitoring and evaluation system is the policy matrix that details the
issues the operation intends to address, the outcomes expected, the milestones o f the Government
program, and the parameters chosen for tranche release. This matrix i s common to the Letter o f Sector
Development Policy and the present operation. Definitions, baselines, and values o f expected results were
worked out during program preparation to facilitate monitoring by the Government and other interested
parties. Particular emphasis was placed on indicators o f results rather than process indicators. Annex 10
provides a description o f the operation's M&E system, including performance parameters, baselines and
targets values. To ensure that FEDPG performance reflects appropriately the broader performance o f the
o f the forest and environment sector, the FEDPG monitoring system will extend beyond measuring
program specific indicators to also include indicators that reflect the country's overall performance in
environmental management, governance and social equity inthe forest sector.

99.      Progress in some o f the sensitive areas such as wildlife and biodiversity conservation,
management o f national parks and reduction o f illegal logging will be measured through well defined
protocols which leave minimum room for subjective interpretation and minimize risks o f conflicting
perceptions regarding performance. For example, progress in protected area management will be scored
according to the "Tracking Tool" developed by the World B a n W W F Alliance, consistent with the
recommendations o f the World Commission on Protected Areas Management Effectiveness. Progress in
the fight o f illegal logging will be measured in terms o f variations in the length o f logging roads located
within unallocated forest concessions and national parks, observed in time series o f satellite images
interpretedin collaboration between the Government and the Global Forest Watch Program o f the World
Resources Institute. Parameters, baselines values, methods and sources to review time series o f relevant
parameters are integrated into the program's monitoring system.

 100.    W h i l e various departments o f the Ministries o f Finance, Forests and Environment will be
involved in gathering and analyzing program relevant information, monitoring o f overall program
implementation will be centralized by the Cooperation Division o f the Ministry o f Forests. This division
will consolidate monitoring reports, maintain relations with national and international partners,
consolidate annual work programs, and monitor satisfaction o f tranche release conditions. The
Environmental Impact Assessment Monitoring Unit o f the Environment Ministry will monitor and report
on the implementation o f the FESP environmental management plan. MINFOF's provincial delegations
will be the focal points o f the Monitoring Unit, and in that capacity they will be in charge o f collecting
necessary data at local levels; they will also be in charge o f disseminating reports at the provincial level.
External evaluations and audits o f accounts will be undertaken under the auspices o f the Ministry o f
Finance and Economy. Most o f the baseline, progress data and reports produced under this Program will
be made publicly available though the website www.minef.cm, along with other sector performance and
governance data.

 101,    Implementationreviews will buildupon the positive experience gained duringthe supervision o f
the forest component o f SAC I11(P054443), and will incorporate the recommendations issued by the
December 2002 QAG Quality o f Supervision Assessment for this operation. DFID will supplement
World Bank supervision by posting two specialists with time bound contracts with the Bank at the World
Bank resident mission in YaoundC. The specialists will assist the task team leader and facilitate
communications among the various stakeholders involved inthe operation.

                                                     24

B.Fiduciary and ProcurementAspects

102.    A Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the forest and green environment sector, reflecting
the PRSP's forecasts, has been integrated into the country's overall MTEF, and budget allocations
approved by Parliament as part o f the national budget. The sectoral MTEF and the year 2006 approved
budget reflect well the Government commitment to provide adequate resources to finance the
FESP.MINEF1 will transfer appropriate amounts of funds into a Treasury account managed by MINFOF
and MINEP. The mechanism o f transfer will be consistent with the principles and procedures established
in the course of the national reform of public finance. Nevertheless, given the relative novelty of the
mechanism, the Minister o f Finance and Economy has issued an instruction to the Directors for Budget
and Treasury as well as to concerned Ministries' staff detailing the procedures that must be followed and
based upon which financial management reviews and audits will be conducted (summary inAnnex 13).

103.    By helping focus the attention of central financing authorities and technical ministries, and by
including the adequacy o f financial management among the key issues for Bank supervision, the present
operation i s expected to result in smoother transfers o f national funds to MINFOF and MINEP, while
improving central control over expenditures, and creating accountability for results. Implementation o f
the Program will reflect the outcome o f Cameroon's public finance management reform. With this in
mind, MINFOF, MINEP and MINEFIhave adopted new budget codes which facilitate fund allocation
and expenditure oversight by central financial authorities. Reflecting the importance o f securing high
quality financial management to MINFOF and MINEP as they implement the FEDPG, the European
Union approved two-year funding for a financial management expert who i s currently in place helping
MINFOF and MINEP use the financial management procedures issued by the MINEFI, and establish
computer capabilities to manage financial data at the central and field levels. Additional short-term
assistance inthis area will be provided under the Basket Fund, as appropriate.

104.    Following a Country Procurement Assessment Review (1999), the PRGF (2000-2002), the HIPC
Assessment and Action Plan (September 2001) and a Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) inJune 2002, the Government of Cameroonhas embarked on a number o f far reachingreforms:
(i)reforming the public finance management regulatory instruments; (ii)improving the budget
preparation process; (iii)reforming the budget nomenclature; (iv) integrating the information system o f
the Ministry o f Finance and Economy by linking the system used by the Budget and Treasury
directorates;  (v) assigning sector ministries responsibility for authorizing the payment o f their
expenditures; (vi) starting the definition o f a reform o f internal auditing; (vii) closing numerous accounts
open in commercial banks; and (viii) and creating o f a Government audit office, the Chambre de
Comptes. Progress in various elements of these reforms was reflected as HIPC completion point triggers.
A World Bankreview of August 2004 and a March2005 WB/IMF Joint Staff Assessment o f Cameroon's
PRSP progress report reveal good progress inmany areas.

105.    Regarding the public finance agenda, the Integrated Financial Management System (EMS) i s
now operational, budget expenditures are now classified on an administrative, economic, and detailed
functional bases. Law 2003/005 which specifies the responsibilities, organization, and functioning o f the
external control audit body for state finances (Chambre des Comptes) o f Cameroon's Supreme Court was
adopted by the National Assembly during the March 2003 session and promulgated by the Head o f State
on April 21, 2003. The President and two members of the audit court were nominated in 2004 and the
remaining 15 financial magistrates are currently being nominated. The newly created Audit Institution i s
expected to become operational shortly. Until recently, implication o f line ministries in budget
preparation has beenmodest. The unifiedbudget codes newly adopted by the central economic authorities
and technical Ministries are expected to help better budget tracking through execution and payments. In
preparation for the proposed operation, budget preparation by the Ministries in charge o f Forests and
Environment followed the procedures recommended in the public finance review and introduced budget
planning and execution systems inline with MINEFI'snew standards.

                                                      25

106.     A comprehensive Fiduciary Risk Assessment (FRA) focused on the FEDPG was completed in
January 2005. Given the Grants' link with overall public expenditure management and fiduciary control
systems, the assessment used the forest sector as the entry point but extended its analysis beyond the
forest sector. While the public financial management systems o f Cameroon continue to present significant
fiduciary risks, the Government has demonstrated strong commitment to public finance reform and made
important progress in improving public financial management over the past two years. All new systems
and regulations have been designed, but are not yet fully operational and concerns remain over some
areas of budgeting, expenditure controls and the absence o f an operational supreme audit institution (cout
des comptes). The Fiduciary Risk Assessment found that the current level o f fiduciary risk i s BIC
(mediumihigh), but that trends are positive with respect to most indicators. A summary of the risk
assessment i s inAnnex 12. The Assessment arrived at a number o f recommendations that the Government
committed to implementing prior to and during the FEDPG in order to limit fiduciary risks.Among other
recommendations: (i)developing a financial management and audit system for the newly created
ANAFOR; (ii)closing special funds cash accounts in commercial banks, entrusting transactions to a
public accountant and systematizing audits; (iii)  giving Forest and Environment Ministers full authority to
authorize expenditures; (iv) making internal quarterly fiscal reports and quarterly expenditure reviews
mandatory at MINFOF, and MINEP during the implementationo f the FEDPG; (v) requiring MINEP and
MINFOF financial directors to issue administrative accounts presenting details o f budget execution, and
the Public Accountant to issue the compte de gestion or Public Accountant Report at the end o f each fiscal
year.

107.     The public procurement system has been profoundly reformed over the last three years.
Administrative transparency and accountability have been promoted through systematic monitoring of
procurement by specialized commissions and independent observers, as well as by ex post monitoring by
independent auditors. A new procurement code was adopted in September 2004, articulating clear rules
for bidding and defining the different types o f bids, thresholds, and procedures. A new procurement
regulatory agency, the Agence de Regulation des March& Publics (ARMP) was created, and i s fully
operational as are specialized tender and control commissions, and appointed independent observers.

108.     Important progress in procurement reform notwithstanding, a recent review conducted by an
independent auditor revealed that badpractices like subdividingcontracts in order to remain below central
contracting limits persist, technical files are at times o f a low quality, technical evaluations not as
objective as they should be, tender processes experience delays between commitments and payment
orders, and cases o f misconduct are not adequately pursued and sanctioned.

109.     The Government has agreed that quality o f implementation o f new financial and procurement
procedures by MINFOF and MINEP should be audited annually. The audits will examine adequacy and
compliance with procedures, highlight difficulties, recommend remedial action and draw lessons to be
used as procedures are applied to other sectors and inthe context o f the first PRSC for Cameroon.

C.DisbursementandAuditing

110.     Disbursement. The proposed GEF and IDA grants will follow the Bank's relevant guidelines for
development policy operations. Disbursements will be in three tranches, one to be released at
effectiveness based on Board conditions met before negotiations, and two tranches to be released as
relevant conditions are met. The disbursement o f the first tranche will coincide with the beginning o f the
Cameroonian fiscal year. As per Program design, subsequent disbursements will be geared to the budgets
of following years. In the event o f delays in fulfilling second and third tranche agreed conditions,
disbursements will be delayed accordingly. Such delays will be taken into account at the time o f the
preparation o f annual work plans and budget preparation. The expected time to disburse the IDA and GEF
resources i s four years, and its expected closing date December 3 1, 2009.


                                                      26

111.     In line with a preference explicitly expressed by the Government, IDA and GEF funds will be
deposited into an account opened by the Government at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement o f
Cameroon (CAA). Funds will be made available to MINEP and MINFOF through an account labeled
PSFE (FEDPG) in local currency opened by the Treasury Department at the Bank o f Central African
States (BEAC), in amounts consistent with IDA-GEFbudget support and Government-approved budgets
and workplans. The first tranche o f IDA and GEF funds will be deposited upon Board approval. Proceeds
of the second and third tranches will be deposited after all respective conditions are met. If, after
depositing in the CAA account, the proceeds o f the Grant are used for ineligible purposes as defined in
the Development Grant Agreement, the Bank will request the Borrower to either: (a) returnthe amount to
the account, or (b)refundthe amount directly to IDA and GEF.

112.     Auditing. The deposit account at the Caisse Autonome d 'Amortissement and the Forest and
Environment Ministry local currency accounts opened by Treasury at the BEAC will be audited annually
by auditors acceptable to the Bank and in line with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Bank. The audit
of the deposit account at the C A A will verify that Bank funds were received in the account and disbursed
into the Treasury. In keeping with specific recommendations o f the Fiduciary Risk Assessment (Annex
12), audits o f the MWFOF and MINEP account at Treasury will also be conducted to verify that adequate
funding was transferred in a timely manner to MINFOF and MINEP for work program implementation
and that the use o f funds was inline with administrative and financial management procedures and other
applicable national directives. Receipt o f audit reports, including action plans that address identified
weahesses, will be required along with reports on the satisfaction o f tranche conditions at the time o f
second and third tranche release.

113.     For added security, audits o f MINEP's and MINFOF's accounts will be carried out quarterly.
These audits will be carried out by a Public Accountant until the Chambre des Comptes i s fully
operational. At the end o f the fiscal year, MINEFI's Director for General Affairs will issue an
"administrative account" and the Public Accountant will present a revenue and expenditure account.

D.Poverty and SocialAspects

114.     The FEDPG operation will help a wide array o f beneficiaries including the national economy,
local governing bodies, and the Cameroonian population at large. The forest sector operation i s primarily
designed to secure the natural resource base and benefit the poor. Results promoted under this operation
take place in rural areas where 84 percent of the poor live and where 64 percent o f all inhabitants are
poor. While the forest sector i s already and by far the first source o f employment and cash income in
these areas, the emphasis that FEDPG places on improving forest management i s expected to result in
significant increases inforest-basedrural incomes.




                                                     27

                                                                                  and locally endemic species




115.     Revenues to Communities and Local Governing Bodies. This operation will consolidate and
further increase the revenues accruing to local populations in the form o f a 40 percent share o f area taxes
to local governing bodies and 10 percent to local communities. This income will allow local governing
bodies to finance social infrastructure, council budgets, rural roads and other local investments, while
leveraging further financing from nationally-funded decentralization initiatives like FEICOM and donor-
financed rural development schemes like the Cameroon Community Development Program Support
Project (PNDP).

116.     Benefits to community forest activities. Significant social benefits will stem from improvement
and more rigorous implementation o f community forestry frameworks and other regulations aimed at
preserving and enhancing local people's modern and traditional rights and entitlements. While
recognizing the shortcoming o f the current community forestry programs, the preparation team was
satisfied that fundamental instruments are inplace to ensure that social issues are addressed in ways that
give voice to and empower rural communities, invite public scrutiny, and enhance accountability.
Particularly meaningful social benefits are expected to accrue from the operation's focus on strengthening
community rights to trees located outside o f gazetted forests, facilitating accountability inrent-transfers to
rural populations, and securing respect for the rights o f local people when determining the boundaries o f
gazetted forests and national parks. Particularly strong links have been created between community-based
and wildlife management activities, which i s expected to yield economic benefits to the poor while             .
benefiting the environment. This i s the case for example for Community-Managed HuntingZones (ZICG)
inwhich local communities will receive support to enforce their exclusive right to manage wildlife either
directly or incollaborationwith external partners o f their choice.

117.     Benefits to Indigenous People and Vulnerable Groups. The FEDPG operation will help ensure
that laws and regulations defending the rights o f Pygmies and other forest-dependent groups are fully
enforced, especially their rights over hunting grounds and other forest resources crucial to their
subsistence and cultural survival. The Pygmies have been identified among the specific beneficiaries of
the activities promoted by this operation. These indigenous peoples are more dependent on forests than
other groups, and huntingand gathering activities generate up to 65 percent o f their livelihood. Formerly
full-time hunters and gatherers ranging over large areas of uninterrupted forest, Cameroon's 30,000 Aka,
Baka, and Bakola peoples have become increasingly sedentarized into about 300 settlements or `bases' in
33 councils by the expansion o f logging and agriculture. Traditionally more balanced relations between
Pygmies-as      hunters and suppliers of labor-with     other groups have given way to dependency on

                                                     28

villages for cash income and government social services. While not attempting to fundamentally alter the
interaction between indigenous and other economic actors, the proposed operation will strengthen the
Pygmies' customary and modem rights, expand their influence in forest management decision making,
and extend the concept o f community forests to those settled along roadsides.

E.EconomicandFinancialAspects

118.     As IDA and GEF support takes place within the broader framework o f a government-led multi-
donor forest and environment sector program (the FESP), its preparation included economic, financial,
and incremental cost analyses o f the FESP as a whole. Analyses were conducted from the perspectives of
local people, the private sector, the state, and the global community (for global externalities).

119.     Costs. A detailed costs analysis o f the FESP has been carried out to appropriately reflect sectoral
expenditures into the medium term expenditure framework and outline the nature and amounts of
technical and financial contributions by partners. The total cost o f the FESP would be US$154 million8.
Of these costs, US$122 million is for investments and US$32 million for recurrent costs over a period of
three to four years - about US$lOmillion per year. Estimated physical and price contingencies amount to
US$lO million and US$13 million respectively. Foreign exchange content represents 11 percent o f total
costs. Program costs were divided into direct, indirect (for activities such as environmental monitoring
and information, forest zoning and control, elaboration o f a strategy, regulatory framework and funding
mechanism for protected areas) and institution strengthening. Indirect and institutional strengtheningcosts
represent more than 60 percent of total cost. For the purpose o f calculating rates o f return, costs for each
o f the five policy areas supported under the Program were allocated to productive components, while
institution strengthening costs were accounted for inthe overall assessment o f the Program.

120.     Economic analysis. The Government Forest and Environment Sector Program i s economically
viable, Economic viability i s sensitive to indirect costs, with the Economic Rate o f Return (ERR)ranging
from 13 to 18 percent when these costs are taken into account. It i s positively influenced by returns from
forest management, which when omitted from the overall economic analysis, reduces the ERR to 8.7-10.7
percent. When hypothetical non-timber benefits are included, the ERR improves from 11-16 to 13-18
percent. Economic viability i s also sensitive to changes in forest utilization costs, and ERR increases from
11-16 to 13-20 percent following a 10 percent reduction in logging costs.

121,     Expected benefits. Both commercial and community forest management activities show attractive
economic returns. For commercial forestry, improved processing efficiency and increased relative prices
of secondary species have a notably strong positive impact on the ERR, which drops to 1-5 percent when
both parameters remain constant. Plantations show attractive economic returns on direct costs, and are
viable both with respect to direct and indirect costs when carbon sink benefits are accounted for, Over 150
community forests, providing communities with annual incomes in excess o f US$20,000 per year over 25
years can potentially be established under the program supported by this operation. While fuelwood-based
economic activities show positive economic returns only in the best case scenario, accounting for
unquantified environmental benefits such as watershed protection and non-timber forest products
improves the economic viability o f the sub-component, and these activities are financially viable from a
community perspective. Finally, from a global perspective, the operation will yield significant
environmental benefits by maintaining functioning ecosystems rich with secondary biodiversity and
wildlife populations in both protected areas and production forests. The network o f effectively managed
protected areas will maintain forest cover in production and community forests, and serve as a source of
substantial carbon sequestration and biodiversity.



8US5154  i s the program cost as determined atappraisal, This cost differs from the program cost as shown in the Medium Term
ExpenditureFrameworkdue to cost adjustmentsoccurredin the process of AnnualWork Planningprojections.


                                                              29

122.    Unquantified benefits will be derived from reorganized forest institutions that ensure effective
law enforcement, maintain a healthy investment climate and a level playing field, capture forest revenue
shares due to the state and local communities, and preserve the environment. These benefits will take the
form of (i)  overall risk reduction for the sector; (ii)
                                                       sustainable income and employment generation; (iii)
global environmental benefits; access to international funding and certification; (iv) improved confidence
of international investors; (v) increased efficiency o f the public administration; and (vi) an enhanced
relationship between private and public operators.

123.    Additional unquantified benefits will accrue from the effective implementation o f management
plans, which will hopefully pushindustrytowards product diversification, research o f new market niches,
and higher processingyields.

124.    Financial analysis. The analysis shows that the FESP i s financially attractive overall.
Implementing forest management in commercial forest concessions i s generally viable. The sensitivity
analysis shows that forest management i s highly sensitive to timber processing efficiency and relative
prices o f secondary species, which improve significantly `with FEDPG scenario'. Similarly, community-
based forest management i s financially attractive for forest communities who harvest, process timber for
the local market and collaborate with larger companies for the harvesting and trade o f more valuable
timber species which would not find larger return locally. Investments in plantations show positive
returns, and even game hunting revenues indicate potential to adequate reward investments. At the
national level, the FESP will help secure the natural resource base, which would in turn generate a
sustainable stream o f annual fiscal revenues in excess o f US$65 million and incremental tax receipts o f
about US$12 million per year following improved recovery and reduction in illegal logging and
underreporting.

125,    Interm financial sustainability, the overall cost ofthe Government Programequals 1.4percent of
GDP in 2001 (US$9.2 billion in constant 1995 prices), 2 percent o f the external debt (US$6.7 billion in
constant 1995 prices) and 16 percent o f the external debt service (US$791 million in constant 1995
prices). Once completed, this Programwill increase Government recurrent costs by around US$3 million
a year, around US$2 million o f which will be for managing protected areas. These costs could be
significantly reduced through donor-assisted trust funds, and park management concessions. While these
and other options to reduce running costs will be purposefully explored during the life o f the operation,
the approved sector Medium-Term Expenditure Framework makes adequate provisions to meet the
increased level o f runningcosts beginning in2008.

126.    Incremental cost analysis. In meeting GEF strategic priorities, and by specifically targeting the
framework for improved protected area management as well as the capacity o f national institutions and
staff, GEF support helps expand the FESP to ensure the creation o f 0.2 million hectares o f newly
protected, highly intact mangrove forests in areas known to have the highest number o f species in
Cameroon. Furthermore, it will considerably contribute to the effective management o f 1.9 million
hectares o f core protected area not including the forest and wildlife resources in the peripheral zones o f
the targeted protected areas. Without GEF funds, it i s likely that national forest zoning would be carried
out exclusively for timber production, with community forests and protected areas planned and managed
independently o f each other. GEF leveraging will help incorporate biodiversity into national forest
planning and conservation outcomes in protected area. Finally, GEF support will help the Government
regulate and impose fees on recreational huntingthus expanding and improving management o f National
Protected Area and Wildlife Fund.

F.EnvironmentalAspects

127.    Through its focus on sectoral policy, institutional reform, law enforcement, regulation of
production forests and environmental monitoring, rehabilitation o f degraded national parks and
biodiversity conservation sites, the FEDPGwill have a positive impact on the environment.
                                                     30

128.     In preparing the proposed operation, it was determined that the FESP is likely to have a
significant effect on the country's environment and forests. In particular, the Government conducted
comprehensive environmental and social studies which were publicly disclosed inten provincial locations
in Cameroon. It also produced an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) which was widely
circulated in the international community and specifically discussed in a publication entitled
"Implementation of International Commitments on Traditional Forest-Related Knowledge: Indigenous
People's Experiences in Central Africa". Presented at the Expert Meeting on Traditional Forest-Related
Knowledge in San Jose, Costa Rica in December 2004, the publication cited the Government Indigenous
People-related policies and the IPDP and other program features o f the FEDPGas good practice.

129.     Environmental and Social Impact. The Government reflected the findings o f its preparatory
environmental and social studies into the design o f the FESP. These studies (Annex 6) found that the
impacts on the environment were mostly positive. No large-scale or irreversible adverse impacts on the
environment were foreseen, nor will any displacements o f people or construction o f large sensitive
infrastructure result from the operation. The recommendations issued by the social and environmental
studies focused on strengthening ministerial capacity to monitor, evaluate, and mitigate the environmental
impacts o f activities taking place in the forest environment. Despite the significant shortcomings in
implementation capacity that currently exists, these studies concluded that Cameroon's forest sector
policies and legal instruments are adequate to address the environmental concerns that could arise in
connection with the FESP. The proposed operation will support the development o f a mitigation plan
against potential undesirable impacts, which defines tasks, timing, costs and responsibilities for specific
mitigation measures.

                   VI.      RISKS, RISKMITIGATIONANDEXIT STRATEGY

130.     Risks and Risk Mitigation. The operation carries significant risks associated with political and
financial  sustainability. For the Bank, there are also fiduciary and reputational risks. The FEDPG
integrates comprehensive measures to address or mitigate each risk and i s phased and sequenced to build
institutional capacity to address the risks effectively. Conversely, there are equally important political,
economic and reputational risks associated with not supporting the operation. The Bank has invested
significantly in sector reforms over the past five years in Cameroon. There i s the risk that inaction will
result in the reversal o f positive reforms, a halt to progress inpartially reformed institutions, new systems
and structures. Additionally, this program will help regulate the green environment sector, prevent abuse
by interest groups, harness the forest's contribution to social and economic development, reduce poverty,
promote environmental sustainability, and improve governance. The potential downside associated with
inaction far outweighs the risks associated with the operation itself. It should be noted that the operation's
legal agreement between the Bank and the Government makes satisfactory progress a condition for
disbursement o f the second and third tranche, allowing for periodic review o f performance and agreement
on remedial action, and will stipulate other standard remedies in case o f significant slippage of the
program.

131.     Risk that recent reforms may be reversed following the HIPC completion, and that this
operation's tranche release measures may be reversed after the release o f the final tranche. OED reviews
o f the use o f conditionality in forest operations recognized the risk that governments may reverse policy
reforms once disbursement pressures subside. This risk appears relatively modest for this particular
operation. Most of the politically sensitive operation-supported reforms endured and were further refined
following disbursement o f the SAC111forest tranches. Rather than pushingfor new ambitious reforms, the
proposed operation will allow Cameroon to stay the course in a reform process that i s already well
underway. As these reforms relate to commitments made in the HIPC and PRSP frameworks, they were
characterized by very inclusive public information processes. In designing this operation, the Bank team
was aware that given the operation's size and the country's macro-economic context the operation could
rely very little on leverage for success, and that instead it had to build upon consensus and Government

                                                        31

commitment, These reforms enjoy the President's personal support and have become Cameroon's
hallmark in international forestry fora and events. It i s therefore unlikely that the Government will
backtrack on the policy package supported by this operation.

132.     Risk that unexpected developments may make it dfficult for the Government to make adequate
budget allocations for forest sector development duringthe life o f this operation. Fundingo f the proposed
operation will take place through the normal Cameroonian budget allocation and expenditure process. As
such, successful implementation will require approval o f adequate allocations to the forest sector in the
national budget, and timely transfer o f funds to MINFOF and MINEP. The risk that unforeseen
developments will render the Government unable or unwilling to approve such allocations i s mitigated by
the fact that most o f the national investment resources are generated within the forest sector and that,
based on existing legislation, part o f these resources can be automatically apportioned to finance forest
programs and submitted as for Parliament's approval as part o f the national budget. The risk o f
inadequate Government resources i s further mitigated by the attractiveness o f the financial package
available through the second and third tranche releases, which are specifically conditional on the
adequacy o f national budget allocations. Finally, the fact that the IDA, the GEF, and DFID have adopted
a common disbursement mechanism and identical or complementary benchmarks, and that other
Development Partners may do so in the future, should keep this risk within a manageable range. In the
very specific case o f delicate conservation areas such as Campo Ma'an and Mbam and Djerem significant
non-Government funding sources have been established to supplement and compensate for possible
shortfalls innational budget outlays. These include a trust fund administered by FEDEC and funds made
available by NGOs such as WWF and WCS which carry out specific fund raising campaigns on behalf o f
these conservation areas

133,     Risk that Government financial management and procurement capabilities may prove
inadequate. The Government's capacity to implement the operation will depend upon the ability o f
concerned government agencies to use the new financial management and control system, and the
reformed procurement procedures. Assessed in January 2005, fiduciary risks involved in the operation
were found to be mediumhigh; the recommended mitigation measures reinforced specific elements o f
public financial management and procurement reforms and were endorsed by the Government. The
Ministry of Finance and other Government authorities are especially committed to ensure smooth
implementation o f the FEDPGbecause this operation has been explicitly selected as a test case for budget
support mechanisms to be expanded to other sectors under the planned PRSC operation. Finally, financial
management, procurement and other areas o f fiduciary concern are the key elements o f a long term
technical assistance that i s already inplace with MINFOF and MINEP (infinancial management) and that
will be reinforced through the GTZ-executed, DFID- and CIDA-financed Basket Fund for Technical
Assistance to the FESP. The recruitment process for the financial and administrative experts has been
completed by the GTZ-IS. The DFID contribution to the Basket Fund has been confirmed and the first
installment o f funds has been transferred to the Government inNovember 2005.

134.     Risk that institutional changes may undermine smooth program implementation. Rapid changes
in the institutional environment, overlapping and conflicting mandates by forest and environment
institutions, and resistance to facing new challenges have undermined the effectiveness o f Cameroon's
forest and environment programs in the past. To address the risks typical o f a problematic institutional
setting, the FEDPG placed institutional restructuring at the center o f the dialogue with Government.
During its preparation, seemingly un-reformable institutions such as ONADEF disappeared and the
Ministry incharge of forests agreed to shed all its non public service mandates. The responsibilities for
environmental program implementation and environmental monitoring, once the territory o f the same
Ministry,have been appropriately assigned to two different Ministries. The overlap of responsibilities
between MINFOF and MINEP for the management o f protected areas, a potential source o f conflict, was
resolved in December 2005 through a Presidential Decree which amended these Ministries' respective
mandates. While the sector features a good institutional setting at this time, the risk o f future institutional

                                                     32

problems cannot be discarded. To manage this risk, the FEDPG's strategy has been to link disbursements
to the achievement o f specific measurable results rather than to the reimbursement o f expenditures by one
or another institution.

135.     Bank reputational risk related to the controversy over forest operations in the humid tropics.
Given the interest that forests and environment generate in civil society, this operation i s likely to attract
significant external scrutiny and may entail reputational risk for the World Bank. Such risk i s inherent to
the theme (forests) rather than to the content o f the operation. Inthe context o f forestry related work
undertaken in the frameworks o f the SAC I11 and the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline, the Bank team has
developed significant sector knowledge and created networks that will enable the FEDPG team to deal
effectively with requests for information and external criticism.

136.     Indeciding to move forward with the presentprogram, the Bank team realizedthat working ina
country such as Cameroon environmental issues are bound to pose reputational risks whether or not the
Bank i s engaged with a specific forestienvironment operation. The country i s home to world-famous
rainforests, unique biodiversity, indigenous populations, and at the same time one o f the largest exporter
of processed tropical timber in Africa and a partner in the Chad Cameroon Pipeline. Whenever criticism
of the Bank becomes vocal, poorly informed constituencies and critics would quickly question the Bank's
capacity to avert or correct environmental and related social problems. Direct involvement in operations
like the FEDPGwill greatly enhance the Bank`s own sector knowledge and influence, while anticipating
opposition attributable to insufficient public information.

137.     A communications strategy has been established by the Government o f Cameroon in
collaboration with the Bank's External Development Communications service to address potential
expressions o f interest and concern for the public. On the Government side, this strategy i s based on three
major axes. The first focuses on the ministerial capacity to communicate key policy messages externally
and among the institutional actors involved. The second focuses on public environmental awareness
initiatives, and the third on grassroots dissemination o f specific information concerning the rights and
obligations o f people living near and within forest areas. On the Bank side, this strategy will involve
proactive outreach initiatives aiming at disseminating internationally high quality information about the
FEDPG and recent achievements made by Cameroon in forest sector governance and environmental
stewardship. It will also involve expanded capacity for program oversight and communication efforts so
that all potential internal and external communication enquiries can be dealt with rapidly and effectively.
Trust Fund resources have been obtained and used to accompany the launch o f the operation and
additional resources will be sought duringimplementation. Such expanded communication efforts will be
matchedwith increased allocations o f supervision budget.

138.     Exit Strategy. If the above or other unexpected unfavorable circumstances were to prevent the
operation from achieving its goal, an exit strategy has been devised. It i s based on the Bank's role as
enabler and catalyst behindthe Government's Forest and Environment Sector Program. This Program was
launched in June 2004 as a Government program without waiting for Bank approval or support, The
FESP i s in fact a shared responsibility o f the Government o f Cameroon and all its development partners,
As a result, Bank's exposure will be diminishingovertime as support for the Program i s secured by other
sources. The Bank will be able to withdraw, if necessary, without major disruption to the efforts initiated
with the operation's support and without leaving a legacy o f inflated recurring costs for the Government.




                                                     3 3






  ANNEX 2: SUMMARY DESCRIPTIONOF THE FORESTAND ENVIRONMENT SECTOR
                                             PROGRAM

The Government FESP will adopt a broad sectoral lending approach consisting of five program
components:
   1. Regulation and information management
   2. Productionforests management
   3. Protected area, biodiversity & wildlife management
   4. Communityforest resources management
   5. Institutional strengthening, training & research

1.RegulationandInformationManagement

Program component 1entails an estimated cost of US$7.49million and consists o f three subcomponents:
      Environmental regulations and impact assessment. Law number 96-12 August 5, 1996 endowed
      the Government o f Cameroon with a comprehensive legal framework for managing the
      environment. This subcomponent equips the FESP with the standards, regulations, and legal
      reference required to effectively administer that framework and enforce its provisions. In this
      capacity it will contribute to the: (i)  preparation o f environmental standards, (ii)drafting o f
      environmental regulations, (iii)development o f training and information resources for law
      enforcement, (iv) preparation o f a guide and training course on environmentalimpact assessment,
      (v) conduct o f environmental audits, and (vi) active exploration o f financial resources and fiscal
      mechanisms to assure sustainedimpact assessment over time.
   2. Multi-resources inventories and Mapping. The vegetation map o f Cameroon available today was
      released over a decade ago and i s outdated. Cartographic and multi-resource inventories are
      required to inform natural resource management at the country level, particularly in the northern
      and western zones. Among the outdated or nonexistent information resources the FESP will be
      required to update or develop i s an operative database covering both timber and non-timber forest
      products. This resource will be essential to monitoring changes in Cameroon's forest cover and to
      informing responsive sector and nationalpolicy.
   3 . Communications and environmental awareness. The availability o f information and .information
      resources i s a necessary but not sufficient condition o f successful dissemination. Based on the
      understanding that effectively disseminated and useful information i s generally demand driven,
      the Program targets public awareness o f environmental issues, and awareness o f the environment-
      related information resources that are available (and needed) among those most likely to use
      them. This purpose will be served by a carefully crafted environmental awareness campaign and
      communications strategy that comprises the third element o f the information management
      Program component.


2. ProductionForestManagement
The second Program component entails an estimated cost of US$30.68 million and pertains to forest
management plans, regulatory enforcement, and sub-sector development and value added within
Cameroon's production forests. It will be implemented through five subcomponents:
   1. Completion of the Country Zoning plan. Cameroon validated a forest zoning plan in 1995 which
      provides the basis for dividing the country's forest estate between large and small scale
      production forests (UFAs and VCs), community managed forests, and protected areas - some o f
      which are withdrawn entirely from production based on their biological representativeness and
      diversity. The 1995 zoning exercise's coverage of production forests was however incomplete,
                                                   39

        and has yet to be extended beyond production forests in the humid south. Since the zoning plan
        should be completed before any further forest concessions are awarded, the imperative becomes
        an urgent sectoral priority. And since forest zoning pertains to protected and non-production
        biodiversity and habitat conservation areas covered by Program component 3 (below), its
        significance i s not limited to production forests. Zoning o f state forests into production areas,
        parks, and reserves i s carried out with a provision that these areas remain under continued forest
        cover. Other areas, assigned to rural use zone, may under certain conditions be converted from
        forest to other land uses, including agroforestry, agriculture, other economic use or human
        settlement.
    2. Forest Management Plans. In the humidforest productionzone, the FESP will help strengthen all
        parties' capacity to undertake and oversee implementation o f forest management plans. This
        subcomponent will work closely with the forest industry and local communities. It will help
        national institutions and other bodies to ensure effective supervision o f the design and
        implementation o f forest management plans for production forests. For a management plan to be
        approved and implemented, the concession has first to be gazetted, which involves a long
        administrative and public consultation process. About 40 UFAshave been already gazettedby the
        Administration. The objective of the Program i s to gazette all the 91 UFA concessions within five
        years. It i s worth clarifying that the project will not finance the design or implementation o f forest
        management plansper se. This will be the responsibility o f the private sector. The private sector
        will finance the management plans out o f its own or borrowed funds to satisfy the law that make
        management plans mandatory for all concessions. Similarly the Program will not finance any
        activity in forest concessions which fall within the responsibility o f the private sector,
    3 ,  Wood Industry Development Planning. This subcomponent consists in elaborating and starting
        implementation of an industrialization strategy to ensure sustainable use o f forest products,
        through diversified processing, increased addition o f value, and reduced waste. It will establish
        incentives to favor modern and diversified forest industry.
    4. Control operations and sanctions. The sustainable management o f forest resources suffered from
        an absence of control operations and related sanctions. MINEP will reinforce its capacity to
        monitor and oversee logging activities, a consistent strategy o f control will be established and
        control missions will be well resourced. Moreover the Ministries o f Forest, Finance and Justice
        will collaborate closely to effectively follow up contentious cases and recover sanctions.
    5.   Valorization of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP). Very little attention has been given to non-
        timber forest products until now, although they are the source o f alimentation and medicines of
        most o f the rural population. The objective o f this sub-component i s to promote NTFP and make
        demand and supply meet both on the national and the international market.

3. ProtectedArea, Biodiversityand Wildlife Management
Component 3 o f the FESP Program entails an estimated cost of US$33.15 million, and consists o f eight
interrelated subcomponents:
    1. Biodiversity planning & zoning. During the preparation phase o f the FESP, a scientific
        consultation led to the definition o f an updatednetwork o f protected areas and parks representing
        over 90 percent o f Cameroon's national biodiversity, and covering nearly 17 percent o f the
        country's surface. FESP will support the validation and management o f this network. The
        protected area network will be managed in the context of landscapes and regional zoning plans
        determining land-use and modalities thereof. Wildlife corridor functions will be established and
        biodiversity hotspots will be identified within forest concessions and sport hunting zones (ZICs)
        located in the periphery of protected areas. The establishment o f community huntingzones i s an
        important element o f this landscape approach.
    2. Knowledge & information management. The Program seeks to establish a management
        information system (MIS) linking socio-economic and biological inventories with management
                                                        40

   plans. The MIS will periodically inform managers o f the protected areas in order to improve
   monthly and annual planning cycles. A large number o f national and international partners are
   actively involved in basic and applied research and this subcomponent aims to promote
   coordination and complementary activities betweenthem.
3, Participatory protected areas & community wildlife areas management: This subcomponent aims
   to develop a legal framework that encourages central/local and public/private partnerships and co-
   management, and that secures a redistribution o f income from protected area and wildlife
   management to local communities. The Program will further strengthen ongoing efforts to
   involve local populations in the management o f protected areas, by formally recognizing their
   roles and stakes in decision making processes, and giving them priority access to NTFPs and
   wildlife resources inperipheralareas.
4. Design & implementation of protected area management plans. The resources the Government
   has dedicated to biodiversity conservation over the last 10 years have proven insufficient. This
   sub-component aims at strengthening Government capacity to manage wildlife resources in
   national parks and protected areas and to develop and carry out effective wildlife management
   and anti-poaching strategies. Training, awareness building, and partnership coordination activities
   will target responsible law enforcement teams working inprotected areas. Management plans will
   remain the principal tool for protected area management and the Program will devote special
   attention to their elaboration. In sport hunting zones and community managed hunting zones,
   MINFOF will ensure compliance with the cahiers de charge agreed upon with both private and
   community concession holders.
5. Optimization of economic beneJits of protected areas & hunting zones. The existing legal
   framework has put into place the necessary mechanism to maximize the contribution o f wildlife
   to local community livelihoods, local and the national economy as a whole. Finance Law
   provisions stipulate that 10 percent o f lease taxes fiom sports hunting be allocated to local
   communities, 40 percent to the rural council, and the remaining 50 percent to the national
   treasury. Existing legislation also enables communities to establish community huntingzones, the
   exploitation of which shall be carried out for the benefit o f the communities themselves, Where
   these hunting zones are in the non-permanent forest estate, they can be attributed to local
   communities (Zones d 'Intire"t Cynigitique a Gestion Communautaire - ZICGC) which may lease
   them to third parties with requisite experience in the domain. Thus far, the contribution of
   protected areas to local and national economies has been minimal. Ecotourism, technology
   transfer, access fees to protected areas, fees from grant o f access to research, etc. are all means
   through which protected areas can contribute to local and national economies, but none have
   realized their full potential. Complementary roles and functions between the Ministries o f
   Environment, Forestry, and Tourism need to be defined and institutionalized at the central level to
   assure coherence and synergy - but operational planning must focus on the local level, where
   ecotourism activities take place.
6. Legal and institutional reform of protected area and hunting zones management. The principles
   o f institutional reform are laid out in Component 5, and stress the programming, monitoring, and
   evaluation functions o f Government departments. With respect to protected areas and hunting
   zones, these principles apply to the MINFOF's Directorate responsible for Fauna and Protected
   Areas (DFAP),whose services require substantial streamlining at both the central and field levels.
   Toward this purpose, the functions of the present GEF Secretariat o f the National Biodiversity
   Conservation Program (PCGB) will be integrated into the Environment Ministry.Work will start
   by strengthening DFAP's capabilities, allocating tasks at the divisional and provincial level,
   standardizing management tools, and redeploying, recruiting and training staff. Once this phase i s
   completed consideration will be given to the option o f giving this Directorate greater
   organizational autonomy, including management o f trust fundresources.


                                                43

    7. Sustainable financing of wildlife & protected areas. A number o f funding initiatives are
        underway. Within the context o f the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline, a small off-shore trust fundnamed
        FEDEChas been set up specifically to provide long-term (20 year) co-funding for Campo Ma'an
        and M b a m & Djerem National Parks. Another initiative i s the Cameroon Highlands Conservation
        Foundation (CAMCOF), which i s in the process o f obtaining additional GEF funds through
        UNDP. A third initiative is underway to set up a trust fund for the Sangha Tri-National, the first
        transborder protected area in Central Africa. The FESP foresees a national consultation on
        funding mechanisms to coordinate these related initiatives.
    8. National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan update. In 1996 the Government o f Cameroon
        established, under the auspices o f the MINEF, an Inter-Ministerial Committee to start the
        elaboration o f a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NEISAP). The first draft was
        produced in November 1998, but was not validated until 2002. While the objectives of the
        N B S A P remain relevant, more recent developments require the Plan to be updated. These
        developments include: (i)  changes inthe political landscape, (ii) Yaoundt Declaration of 1999
                                                                         the
        and subsequent Conference of Ministers for the Central Africa sub-region (COMIFAC), (iii)      the
        HIPC process and the Cameroon Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and (iv) the implications o f
        the FESP. A new Inter-Ministerial Committee should be established to review and update the
        NBSAP and a national forum should amend and validate the new version.

4. Community ForestResourcesManagement

Program component 4 of the FESP entails an estimated cost of US26.44 million, and will be
implementedthrough three subcomponents:
    1. Capacity buildingfor community forest and natural resource management. The Forest Law and
        its complementary regulatory texts-in    particular the Arrktd conjoint MINEFIS18-promote      the
        community-based management o f natural resources. The technical and managerial capacity of
        communities to effectively administer forests and game zones, as well as the institutional capacity
        o f agencies mandated to support community land management and agroforestry, are related
        priorities. A subcomponent devoted to this purpose will seek to establish linkages with the
        Community Development Program, and to assist local communities inusingtheir assigned shares
        o f the FWA tax on concession areas.
    2. Reforestation andforest regeneration. The Programwill initially concentrate on support to small-
        scale tree planting activities by individuals, groups, and communities in northern and western
        regions o f Cameroon, where silvicultural successes have already been proven. Demonstration
        plantations will be established in other regions to promote new and appropriate plantation
        techniques. The newly created ANAFOR will support these private and collectiveplantations,
    3.  Masterplan for sustainable domestic energy supply. This subcomponent will also focus on
        northern regions, promoting regulatory amendments related to woodland regeneration and
        managed fuelwood harvesting, assisting in the implementation o f community master plans to
        supply fuelwood to urbanmarkets, and creating incentives for local enterprises.

5. InstitutionalStrengthening,Training & Research

Component 5 entails an estimated cost of US$87.53 million and i s implemented through four
subcomponents :
    1. Reorganizing the National Office for the Development of Forests into the National Agency for
        Forest Development. The reorganization o f ONADEF into the streamlined and more specialized
        ANAFOR was among the reforms promoted by SAC 1111. It was enacted by two Presidential
        decrees and a joint Environment and Forest and Finance Ministry Arrktd in June 2002.
        ANAFOR's mandate pertains to the promotion o f financially viable and environmentally
        sustainable community and private plantation schemes. The reorganizationitself however proved
                                                    42

   a slow and difficult process requiring intensive internal negotiation and high-level political
   backing. This Program subcomponent will help complete ANAFOR's transition and will
   strengthen the new agency's capacities.
2. Strengthening the Environment Ministry. An institutional review carried out inthe preparation o f
   the FESP demonstrated weak capacities o f the Ministry at different levels: (a) organizational
   level, (b) human resource management, (c) material resource management (d) financial resource
   management; and (e) legal and regulatory instruments. Strengthening through the FEDPG will
   focus on MINEP's concerns in the field o f the "green environment", particularly in the areas o f
   policy formulation, oversight, enforcement o f regulations, interfacing with partners and
   performance monitoring.
3 .Rehabilitating education and research in forestry and environment sector. Cameroonian forest
   and environment education and training facilities (National Forestry School in Mbalmayo,
   (ENEF), Garoua Wildlife School (EFG), Dschang Agriculture University, (FASA), Regional
   Agriculture Center, (CRESA)) offer an appropriate mix o f courses but are weak. The present
   program sub-component will strengthen these institutions by improving program content,
   supporting the training and recruitment o f teachers, rehabilitating buildings, acquiring new
   equipment, and promoting their affiliation with regional and international partners, including
   scientific institutions. While the FESP will not conduct specific activities in the research sector
   duringits initial stage, the Institut de Recherche en Agronomiepour le Dkveloppement (IRAD)is
   planning to integrate forest and environment research and science inCameroon.
4. Capacity building and decentralization. A number o f Government sector agencies are to devolve
   a substantial part of their responsibilities-particularly productive functions-to the private sector,
   NGOs, and community organizations. The FESP and FEDPG will help prepare these actors to
   take up functions and activities relinquishedby public institutions. It will do so through the award
   o f small contracts for works and services to be provided, information about income generating
   activities becoming available for which the Government can provide training and technical
   guidance.




                                                 43

     ANNEX 3: CODE OF CONDUCT ADOPTEDBY THE FORESTAND ENVIRONMENT
                    SECTOR PROGRAM(FESP) SUPPORTINGPARTNERS




The following pages reproduce the signed copy and the Englishh-anslationo f a collaborationagreement
signed on January 5,2006 by the representatives o f Canada, Germany, France, the Netherlands, the
UnitedKingdom, the European Union, the African Development Bank, the World Bank, FAO,UNDP,
WWF, S N V and IUCN.By signing the Code of Conduct these DevelopmentPartners expressed their
commitment to usingthe Forest and Environment Sector Program as the framework through which they
will harmonize and align their assistance to Camerooninthe areas o fforest and environment.




                                                   44

                       PROGRAMME SECTOREL FORETS ENVIRONNEMENT

                              CODE DE CONDUJTE DES PARTENAIRES




1




     11- Principes fondatciirs dirCode

dnrls 8Cil ex




               FSFE ccpendra a la his de$ pro


Adherents au Codo do Conduite


                                               E-
""."._I .__,
       ,~ .....
              .,*----------*--    "_r-.".r#.m.,._----_-----_-.,,
                                                             _"          -------._        ._."I
                                                                                             ___.________^_..
                                                                                                   _..*
                                                               ~~."1-41_"      ----I_L_I,

                            FORESTAND ENVIRONMENTSECTORPROGRAM

                                                CODE OF CONDUCT

Background

      1. In 2001, the Government o f Cameroon announced the preparation o f an ambitious Forest and
           Environment Sector Programme" (FESP) to enhance on-the-field implementation o f its forestry
           policy and thus bridge the gap between the legal and regulatory framework in force and the
           reality on the field, which does not make it possible to curb the degradation o f natural resources
           inCameroon.

     2. The majority o f development partners demonstrated their support for the initiative and committed
           to jointly help the Government o f Cameroon to prepare and implementthe said programme. Thus,
           in addition to the commitments made by the Government of Cameroon regarding institutional
           review, community forestry, biodiversity protection, control strategies and decentralised taxation,
           partners unanimously committed to harmonise their support to FESP. This Code o f Conduct,
           hereafter designated Code, formalises such commitment.

     3 .   This Code is based on the resolutions made by the international community inMarch 2005 and
           contained in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, especially ownership, harmonisation,
           alignment, results and mutual accountability.

     4. This Code is also in keeping with the sub-regional dynamics encouraged by COMIFAC, for the
           promotion o f sustainable management and conservation o f the Central African forest ecosystems.

     5. The signatories or       ((Partners to this Code recognise that fragmentation o f assistance and lack of
                                             ))
           coordinated support to the Forest and Environment sector over the last ten years has seriously
           perturbed the efficacy of assistance in the sector. They therefore jointly undertake to harmonise
           their assistance exclusively within the framework o f the Forest and Environment Sector
           Programme prepared by the GoC.

     6. The partners commit to uphold the following principles.

Basicprinciplesof the Code



     7. The Partners recognise that their assistance must be in keeping with national forest and
           environment policies and strategies for which the Forest and Environment Sector Programme
           constitutes the regulatory frame and the trend chart.

     8. The Partners agree that the GoC shall coordinate the support o f Partners and ensure their
           consistency with other national programmes on poverty alleviation and sustainable use o f natural
           resources.

[Streiigtkeningtiutionid strucfzrrcs: State arid Civil society]

     9. The Partners commit to render national institutionalbodies accountable for the implementation of
           FESP and, as much as possible, not to set up concurrent bodies to manage their assistance.


10 Within the frameworkof FESP,a Environmentmeans the green Environmentand does not include the brownandgrey environments.
                                                 ))




                                                              51

10. Inso doing, the Partners wish to buildthe planning, monitoring-evaluationand administrative and
    financial management capacities o f national structures in a sustainable manner. The Partners
    commit to provide their support for capacity building particularly through technical assistance
    (see para 18).

11. The Partners support the idea o fputtinginplace mechanisms that enable to buildthe capacities o f
    non-etatic actors which are playing an increasingly important role inthe implementation o f forest
   resources-related production and conservation activities         - timber, non-timber and wildlife
    products   -.


12. The Partners agree that their actions must aim to achieve the objectives jointly identified with the
    GoC. A results matrix validated during the FESP evaluation mission in May 2004 by the GoC
    and the Partners, defines for each component the critical objectives to be attained over a period of
    five years. The matrix will serve as the grid for analysing the progress made during the first five
    years o f implementation o f FESP.

13. It i s understood that the matrix i s not exhaustive and that a more comprehensive system o f sector
    monitoring shall supplement it.




14. The Partners commit to eventually provide a reliable indicative list o f commitments representing
    their assistance to FESP over a given period, so as to ease planning by the GoC. They shall
    endeavour to base the programming o f their assistance on the planning and programming cycle of
    the GoC.

15, The partners agree on the need to jointly work towards providing earmarked budgetary support to
    FESP. However, the adherence of the different Partners to this financial mechanism shall depend
    on both the improvement made by the GoC inpublic finance management and the internal cycles
    o f the different Partners.

16. The Partners foresee that the GoC will need technical assistance and expertise to achieve
    necessary improvements and commit to help fund such needs.




17. The Partners have put in place a joint fundingmechanism referred to as Basket FundD to fund
                                                                               ((
    the technical assistance and the training required within the framework o f implementation of
    FESP. The objectives o f the Basket Fundare as follows :        .
0   Rapid and effective provision o f technical assistance and training required by MINFOF/MINEP,
    pursuant to the specifications described in the Work Plans o f the different ministries, for the
    implementation o f FESP and to attain set common objectives;
0   Build the financial and administrative capacity o f MINFOF in the implementation and
    management o f the Basket Fundinparticular and FESP ingeneral ;
0   Mobilise external funding for FESP while reducing the cost o f bilateral funding transactions and
    harmonisingthe procedure for such assistance.




                                                  52

   During the first two years, the Basket Fund will be jointly managed by the Ministry in charge of
    forests and the GTZ-IS. A service contract was signed on 9 May 2005 between MINFOF and GTZ-
    IS.

    18. The Partners commit to use the Basket Fund as much as they can to provide technical assistance
        to FESP.

Conditions of implementationof the Code-Partner Coordination
[hformution sliuritig - conseii~us bziildiiig]

    19. The Partners undertake to systematically share all pertinent informationrelating to the Forest and
        Environment sector so as to improve the efficacy o f their assistance to the sector through
        coordinated action. The Consultation Forum for Partners o f MINEF (CCPM) constitutes a choice
         forum for exchanges via monthly meetings and information sharing on the Internet (mail list).

    20. The Partners undertake to, as much as possible within the context o f CCPM, seek consensus on
        key issues touching on the Forest and Environment sector, which require common positions. The
         common positions thus adopted shall be forwarded to the relevant authorities and presented as the
        position o f the partner community vis-a-vis FESP.




    21, The Partners commit to institute a limited number o f preconditions /measures in order to allow
         the GoC have a better understanding o f the expectations o f the different Partners. The results
         matrix jointly validated during a FESP evaluation mission in M a y 2004 defines the main
         expectations o f Partners vis-a-vis the GoC over the next five years.

    22. The Partners shall seek to adopt a common approach in respect o f environmental impact
         assessment as well as issues relating to cross-cutting domains such as respect o f the rights of
         indigenous peoples, gender equality, etc.

[Joint hlissions]

    23. The Partners commit to set upjoint monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for FESP. They shall
         organise joint programme-evaluation missions and shall, in general, seek to limit the number of
         field missions by means o f common intervention synergies.




    24. The Partners have acquired specific skills within the framework o f their support to the Forest and
         Environment sector. They thus commit to take full advantage o f their comparative advantages and
         to ensure that their support i s complementary inthe implementation o f FESP.

    25. As part of the distribution o froles based on their respective comparative advantages, the Partners
         have decided to identify the leaders of the main sub-components/activities o f FESP.




                                                     53

        ANNEX 4: THE MULTI-DONOR BASKETFUNDFOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Cameroon's Forest and Environment Sector Program (FESP) i s a national program developed jointly by
the Government o f Cameroon, the donor community and NGOs over the last three years. It was adopted
in May 2004 as a common sector development framework for government institutions, local governing
bodies, communities, the private sector, NGOs, and donors active inthe forest domain.

Scope of the BasketFund
The technical assistance to be provided during the FESP implementation i s to be financed jointly by
interested donors through a pooling arrangement known as the Basket Fund(BF). The BF i s designed to
buildsufficient capacity to implement the FESP, and will:
     0     Provide funding for quick, targeted and efficient provision of the technical assistance and training
           envisaged inthe FESP, as well as any equipment directly related to this capacity building.
     0     Enhance the financial and administrative capacity o f the Ministries (MINFOF and MTNEP) in
           charge o f implementingthe FESP.
     0     Support capacity building o f the Ministries to enable them to implement, monitor and evaluate
           the FESPactivities.
     0     Enhance donor coordination and minimise transaction costs for the Ministries.
     0     Attract it i s hoped additional external funding in support o f the FESP through the establishment
           and demonstration o f an efficient financing mechanism.

ComponentsandFinancing




 Program Components                      Training      Program      Equipmt        Total        Secured         Balance
          CFAFm                             and         cost for    cost for      Cost for      funding          to be
                                         technical      initial 2 initial 2 year  initial 2     through        financed
                                        assistance        year       period         year        projects
                                         for FESP        period                    period

Environmental management capacity
e.g.establishmentof a management system, assessment of managementplans of forest concessions and communalforests.
                                       578.35          433.76     43.38          477.14       74.00           403.14
Sustainablemanagementof productionforests
e.g.developmentof forestry sector industrializationplan, uniformlogtrackingsystem, computerization of penalties.
                                       2,352.18        1764.14    176.41         1940.55      40.00           1900.55
Management of wildlife and protectedareas
e.g. formulationandadoption of wildlife development& community managementplans, anti-poachingmeasures
                                       968.00          726.00     72.60          798.60       844.00          -45.40
Communitymanagement of forest and wildlife resources
e.g. developmentof community forestry action plans, adoption of CF Reviewresults,consultancysupport in tree planting
                                       2917.00         2187.75    218.78         2406.53      463.00          1943.53
Institutional capacity building
e.g.trainingon forestry policy, monitoringand evaluationsystemdevelopment,communicationstrategy
                                       6574.00         4930.50    493.0%         5423.55      226.00          5197.55
Total CFAm                             13,389.53       10,042.15  1,004.15       11,046.36    1,647.0         9399.36
Total Em                               14.079
*Figures are i d c a t w e only (exchangerate 950 CFA/a10.558     1.05684        11.615       1.732           9.883659


FundManagement,ConsultationandDecision-MakingProcesses
Decisions on the specific                use o f BF resources will be made through the regular Ministerial annual
planning process (planning builds from inputs at field level to proposals for each programme component)

                                                                  54

and guided by the FESP Steering Committee and the BF Management Committees (Management
Committee and Management Unit).

Initially the Ministry o f Forest and Fauna (MINFOF) will manage the BFjointly with GTZ International
Services (GTZ-IS). The BF management contract was signed by MINFOF and GTZ-IS on May 9, 2005.
GTZ-IS i s fully accountable for the financial management o f the BF in the first phase through oversight
o f the agreed management procedures and processes elaborated in the Manual o f Procedures. Full
management responsibility for the BF will be transferred to the MINFOF in a second phase when
sufficient capacity has been built.

Contributionsto the BasketFund
DFIDhas committed &4mto the Basket Fundfrom FY 2005. Canadian CIDA has confirmedits intention
to participate inthe BF. French Cooperation has indicated its interest incontributing too, though whilst its
main contribution is subject to Cameroon achieving Completion Point in the HIPC process, it envisages
providing modest resources in FY 2005. Germany and the Netherlands are also considering supporting
the mechanism.




                                                  55

               ANNEX 5: FORESTAND ENVIRONMENT SECTORPOLICY LETTER"

                                                          1.ACHIEVEMENTS
1. Sector Resources and Policy
The dense humid forests o f Cameroon cover a surface area o f about 19.598 million hectares (that i s 41.2
percent of the national territory) in the southern part o f the country, which also has forested savannahs
and forest galleries covering about 4.3 million hectares. According to the overall assessment o f surface
area carried out within the framework o f the National Environment Management Plan o f 1996, dense
forests and wooded savannahs cover a surface area o f 21.070 million hectares, some 45 percent of the
national territory. However, these forests have undergone and continue to undergo significant changes as
a result o f logging, exploitation o f natural resources, and transformation into farmlands and for other uses.
In order to ensure the growth and sustainable development o f the forest sector, the Government o f
Cameroon has over the last ten years initiated far-reaching reforms touching on the institutional and
regulatory frameworks o f the sector. Such reforms were embodied in the creation of the Ministry o f
Environment and Forests in 1992, the formulation o f a new Forestry Policy published in 1993, the
adoption of a new Forestry Code in 1994 and an Environment Code in 1996. The Ministry of
Environment and Forests gave way to the two successor Ministries established by Decree number
2004/320 on 8 December 2004: the Ministry o f Forests and Fauna (MINFOF) and the Ministry of
Environment and Protection o f Nature.
The new forestry policy i s an important component o f the National Environment Management Plan. It
also falls in line with the agricultural policy. The 1994 Law to lay down Forestry, Wildlife and Fisheries
Regulations and the 1996 Law to institute the Framework Law relating to the management o f the
Environment, establish a policy and strategy framework that centers on the following aspects:
            Sustainable management o f forests, with the creation of a permanent forest estate and the setting
            up of Forest Management Units(FMUs)to replace forest permits.
            Contribution to economic growth and poverty alleviation by ceding part o f the income from tax
            revenue to councils, creatingjobs and allocating community forests.
            Participatory management through consultation with the civil society and the private sector,
            sensitisation of rural populations about their responsibilities, and permanent dialogue with the
            international community.
            Conservation of biodiversity through a national network o f protected areas.
            Building the capacity of the public sector inthe performance of its traditional key functions and
            the transfer of productive functions to the private sector.
            Putting in place a legal framework conducive to the development o f the private sector, based on
            long-term conventions and industrialisation.
            Harmonisation of the regional management system through a zoning plan.
            Improvement of governance through increased transparency and systematic dissemination o f
            information to the public.
Besides, this policy i s given greater momentum by government guidelines that lay emphasis on new
policy challenges such as poverty alleviation, decentralization and good governance. It i s also consistent
with international guidelines on the environment laid out at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992 and
Johannesburg Summit o f 2002. An Emergency Action Plan (EM) supplemented these actions in 2000,
by laying emphasis especially on the fight against poaching and overall streamlining o f the sector. The
Emergency Action Plan itself has been integrated into the Forest and Environment Sector Program
(FESP).



11 The present annes presents the English translation of an original in French that was signed by the Government, Copy o f the original follows this
translation.


                                                                        56

2. Cameroon's commitments at regional and international levels
Duringthe Central African Heads o f State Summit inMarch 1999, Cameroon reaffirmed its national and
sub-regional commitment to ensure sustainable management o f the forest ecosystems o f the Congo Basin.
Concerted management o f sub-regional forest resources decided upon by Heads o f State in the Yaounde
Declaration of 17 March 1999 thus received the backing o f the international community through
resolution No. 54/214 o f the United Nations. The Convergence Plan that resulted thereof and was
approved by the Conference o f Ministers incharge o f Forests inCentral Africa (COMIFAC), was adopted
at the last Heads o f State Conference o f the Central African Forestry Commission on 5 February 2005 in
Brazzaville. This Plan i s a compilation o f the National Specific Programs o f signatory States, which
should contribute to the attainment o f convergent objectives that translate into reality the resolutions o f
the Yaoundt Declaration o f March 1999. Cameroon's FESP, which i s the Convergence Plan
implementation program at national level, will strive to be the national response to COMIFAC programs.
Cameroon's commitment to ensure sustainable management o f natural resources at the international level
has been translated in the signing o f several regional and international conventions on forest and
biodiversity, These conventions include the following:

    0    The Agreement to set upthe Lake ChadBasin Commission (1964)
    0    The Convention on the Conservation o f Nature and Natural Resources (Algiers, 1968)
    0    The Convention on the Protectiono f Cultural and Natural Heritage (Paris, November 1972)
    0    The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES - Washington, March
         1973)
    0    The African Timber Organisation (AT0-Bangui, 1974)
    0    The Agreement on the Joint Management o f Flora in the Lake Chad Basin (Enugu, December
         1977)
    0    The InternationalAgreement on Tropical Timber (Vienna, 1983)
    0    The Central African CooperationAgreement on Wildlife Conservation (Libreville, April 1983)
    0    The Vienna Convention on the Protectiono fthe Ozone Layer (Vienna, March 1985)
    0    The Montreal Protocol on the Control o f Chlorofluorocarbons (Montreal, September 1987)
    0    The Convention on Climate Change (June, 1992)
    0    The Convention on Biodiversity (Paris, October 1994)
3. African Forest L a w Enforcement and Governance (AFLEG)
Like most African countries, Cameroon committed to be part o f the initiative launched in 1989 by the G-8
countries to combat illegal exploitation, illicit trade inforest products and corruption inthe forest sector.
This initiative aims to stimulate, at the highest political level, the will o f the international community to
curb these scourges in order to ensure sustainable management o f our forest resources. This explains why
the efforts made by Cameroon to meet this imperative have, over the last ten years, been marked by
political, legislative and institutional reforms, and adoption o f basic instruments that should promote
conservation and sustainable management o f natural forests.
This concerns especially the following:

    0    Adoption o f a forest exploitation system that makes use o f development plans aimed at ensuring
         sustainable management of production forests;
    0    Improvement of forest governance by setting up a legal framework conducive to the development
         o f the private sector, which guarantees transparency in the process o f allocating forest
         concessions and supervising exploitation activities, the major innovation being the use o f call for
         tenders and the presence o f independent observers;
    0    Adoption o f Principles, Criteria and Indicators (PCI) for sustainable management o f forests in
         Cameroon inDecember 2004 i s one o f the links inthe certification chain.


                                                       57

Progress made in terms o f reforms geared towards the conservation and sustainable management o f
forests in Cameroon i s remarkable, and thus deserves to be appraised and evaluated. However, this i s an
exacting process that requires the collaboration o f all stakeholders inthe sector.
Cameroon i s determined to pursue these reforms. The concern here i s to ensure rational management o f a
national heritage o f great importance while mainstreaming future needs. We do not have the right to
deprive future generations o f the benefits that we are deriving from the forest today.

4. T h e Sector R e f o r m Plan
On the basis of progress made and in order to consolidate the first phase o f the essentially institutional
and legislative reform o f the forest sector, a second phase o f reforms was launched with the support o f the
Bretton Woods Institutions, who mainstreamed a forest sector component into the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC 111) granted to Cameroon. This component i s based on the following three key
objectives o f the forestry policy:

    0    Sustainable management o f the resource;
    0    Stimulation o f economic growth and contribution to poverty alleviation especially by ceding to
         councils and communities part o f forestry revenue, job creation in the timber sector and
         community forests managed by communities themselves and;
    0    Development o f a dynamic and efficient private sector.
The mainreforms encouraged include the following:
Competitive allocation of exploitation permits. Forest exploitation permits (Forest Management Units,
Sale of Standing Volume) are allocated by means o f a competitive procedure on the basis o f technical and
financial criteria. File selection i s carried out by an interministerial commission that includes an
independent observer who contributes to improve transparency inthe permit allocationprocedure.
Planning of allocation of exploitation permits. In order to ensure rational management o f its natural
resources, the Government o f Cameroon designed a concessions allocation planning strategy (UFAs) in
1999 and provided clarifications concerning the different types o f existing permits. This strategy was
updated in April 2004 and envisages the allocation o f all forest concessions by 2006. Such planning
constitutes an important instrumentboth for forestry and taxation services as well as forest exploitation
companies.
Setting up the Forestry Revenue Enhancement Programme (PSRF). Placed under the twin supervision of
the Ministries in charge of Forestry and Finance, the PSRF was set up in June 1999 to strengthen the
hitherto very weak forestry-tax collection capacity. The PSRF centralises the collection o f forest
exploitation-specific taxes and common law taxes for big companies. Since the creation o f the
programme, the Ministry of Finance and Economy has recorded a significant increase in forest tax
revenue (excluding export taxes): from FCFA 10 billion in 1998/1999, FCFA 29 billion in 2000/2001 to
FCFA 40 billion in 2002/2003, at a time when the taxation system i s fully operational and recovery rates
reach 90 percent.
Forestry taxation reform. An economic and fiscal audit was conducted under the joint responsibility of
the Ministries o f Finance and Forestryby an internationally recognised Committee o f Expert Economists.
The objective o f the audit was to redefine the framework for sharing the revenue deriving from the
exploitation o f forest resources between the Government o f Cameroon, private operators and the
population. The final report of that audit which was validated in March 2000, made a number of
recommendations which gave rise to major reforms adopted by the National Assembly. Such reforms
include:
     (i)    Competitive allocation o f forest exploitation permits;
     (ii)   Establishment o f a deposit system;
     (iii)  Clarification o f Industrial free zones;
     (iv)   New forest products taxation modalities.



                                                       58

Some reforms are still not implemented. These include the quota system for timber exports and the setting
up of a system for equitable distribution of the share of forest royalties paid to local councils and
communities (Equalisation Fund).
Definition of the rules relating to forest development plans. Order No. 222MINEF o f 25 May 2001
defines   the rules for the preparation, design and monitoring-control o f development plans in forest
concessions. It provides a detailed practical guide to all stakeholders involved in the sustainable
management o f forest resources.
Establishment of a bank deposit system. Forest exploitation permits .are granted to operators after due
payment o f a bank deposit that covers all the risks o f non-compliance with fiscal and environmental
commitments. This system i s aimed at discouraging speculative practices which are very rife inthe forest
sector.
Supervision of management plans. Partnership with two internationally recognised environmental NGOs
has made it possible to strengthen the ability o f the Ministry o f forestry to supervise management plans
and allows for operational monitoring o f exploitation activities in forested areas in Cameroon. The
convention signed between the Government and Global Forest Watch - World Resource Institute (GFW),
allows for the monitoring o f forest exploitation activities inpermanent and agro-forestal estates by means
o f advanced satellite imagery technologies. A map o f the road network within FMUs and Sale o f Standing
volumes i s produced each year. A second contract has been signed with Global Witness (GW) which i s
expected to participate as independent observer inthe supervisory activities carried out by the Ministry in
charge o f Forestry. Such activities range from field missions to the handling o f all litigations. GW ensures
that supervision procedures are upheld at every stage and i s responsible for signalling any abnormalities
to the Ministryo f Forestry.
Promotion of Community forests. Order No. 518/MINEF/CAB o f 21 December 2001 offers local
communities the possibility to use their right o f pre-emption over surrounding forests. This right makes it
possible for them to suspend any allocation of the forest concerned to a trading company for a period o f
two years duringwhich the community may choose to transform it into a community forest.
Restructuring ONADEF. Such restructuring i s in conformity with the objective o f redistributing forest
sector roles, with government services concentrating on traditional roles (policy formulation, supervision
and control) and productive functions being delegated to private operators. Presidential Decrees No.
2002/155 and 20021156 of 18 June 2002 modifiedthe designation, the articles o f association, the mandate
and funding modalities of ONADEF. The restructuring o f ONADEF gave birth to the National Forestry
Development Agency (ANAFOR) whose mission i s to promote economically profitable and
environment-friendly forest plantations both inthe private sector and inthe local communities.


                                2. THE CHALLENGES TO OVERCOME
1. Harmonisation of institutional capacity and reform objectives
There i s a big disparity in terms capacities for forestry and wildlife legislation implementation. Besides,
there i s no framework for the harmonisation and coordination necessary for the smooth development o f
various support projects. In addition, the support o f the international community i s very scattered and i s
translated by a great many uncoordinated projects, ill-appropriated by national institutions and with
moderate impacts on the field.   Over 60 projects under the supervision o f the Ministries o f Forest and the
Environment and over ten under the supervision o f other Government services (mainly the Ministry o f the
Plan, Programming and Regional development, the Ministry o f Agriculture and Rural Development and
the Ministry o f the Economy and Finance) currently have components that are more or less related to the
protection, renewal and valorisation of natural resources. These projects annually take up close to FCFA
10 billion o f external funding in the forest-environment sector alone, to which should be added the
national counterpart funds.



                                                      59

2. Enhancement of popular participation in the management of forest and wildlife resources
In spite of the prescriptions of the current forestry policy that recommends the participation of the
population in the conservation and management o f forest resources, such participation remains limited.
This is due especially to the unclear definition of the roles of the civil society and the local communities,
which do not have adequate skills and organisational capacity needed for proper management o f the
redistributedresources, the weak technical management capacity o f NGOs and the great distrust between
them and the forestry administration, the difficulties for economic operators to move from the stage o f
"logger" to the stage o f management forester.
3. Securing a significant share of Forest Revenues for community development
During the period from 2000 to 2004, over FCFA 25 billion was distributed to councils and local
governments as their share o f the royalty from the acreage under exploitation for commercial purposes,
An audit and other studies were also carried out on the use of almost all o fthe said funds. Inspite o fthese
positive developments, much i s still to be done to allow for more transparent and participatory planning
of investments and more efficient control o f expenditure.
4. Stepping up the fight against poaching and illegal exploitation of natural resources
The ability o f the Ministry of Forestryand Wildlife to carry out controls, follow-up offences and mete out
sanctions i s still relatively limited. In spite o f the involvement o f an independent observer in the control
activities o f the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife, performances are still moderate. Only greater
organisation o f all the phases o f the control chain by the Ministry o f Forestry and Wildlife may ensure
lasting results and make it possible to build on the contributions o f the independent observer, especially
by publishingthe record of offences and informing the public about the litigations between the Ministry
and forest sector economic operators.
5. Speeding up the mainstreaming of environment-friendly measures in forest production
activities
Over six years after the entry into force of the Framework law on the management o f the environment in
Cameroon, environmental concerns have remained administrative formalities within the context o f forest
management operations. It i s therefore necessary to ensure rigorous application o f environmental
management plans, especially in some forest management units situated near protected areas where
environmental assessments are a key precondition. Besides, it will be necessary to strengthen and step up
the operational abilities of the institution in charge of the environment and o f advisory bodies such as the
National Advisory Committee on the Environment and Sustainable Development (CNCEEDD).
6. Protected areas - National parks
A network o f protected areas has been developed especially over the last fifteen years, thanks to the
Biodiversity Conservation and Management Programme in Cameroon (PCGBC). Wildlife protected areas
cover 7 211 819 hectares representing 15.1 percent o fnational territory.
This surface area is distributed as follows: 10National parks; 10 Wildlife reserves; 1Wildlife Sanctuary;
3 Zoological gardens; 40 Hunting zones; 16 community-based huntingzones which have been placed at
the disposal o f village communities. The technical and financial management o f community-based zones
i s the responsibilityof the populations who may, if they so desire, seek the technical assistance o f the staff
o f the Ministryo fForestry and Wildlife.
Besides, a method of assessing efficient management of all national parks has been established.
7. Expansion and Participatory management of protected areas
The different measures taken to this effect include the following:
      a) Economic operators in leased hunting zones are obliged to respect the specifications which
          stipulate the social projects to be carried out for the benefit o f the surroundingpopulation.


                                                          60

      b) In addition to such social projects, communities benefit 50 percent o f lease taxes which are
         annual and per hectare, and shared on a pro-rata basis o f 40 percent to the councils and 10 percent
         to communities. Cameroon also instituted rules that allow for consultation o f the local
         populations both at the level o f creation, demarcation and management o f protected areas.
      c) Consolidation o f protected areas within the national territory and setting up o f cross-border
         protected areas. The Conventions relating to the Sangha Cameroon (LobCkC National Park), the
         C.A.R. (Dzanga Sangha National Park) and Congo (Nouabale Ndoki National Park) complexes as
         well as the Gahanga-Gumti (Nigeria) and the Tchabal Mbabo (Cameroon) complexes have been
         signed. Agreements between the Dja Wildlife Reserve (Cameroon), MinkCbC (Gabon), Odjala
         Reserve (Congo) on the one hand, and the Korup (Cameroon) and Cross River (Nigeria) on the
         other hand are being prepared.
      d) Fight against poaching, especially through the setting up of a central Anti-Poaching Unit, a
         National Committee and Provincial Committees to this end. Such committees involve transport
         companies (CAMRAIL and CAMAIR).
These measures are coupled with regional initiatives such as CEFDHAC, COMIFAC, OCFSA,
ECOFAC, WWF, CARPE and compliance with standards and international conventions (CITES).
8. Extensionof programmes to arid and mountainous regions
As a result of its geographical position, Cameroon is part o f the sudano-sahelian zone threatened by
desertification. Forest ecosystems are fragile, often because o f overexploitation by the population for
subsistence.
Research carried out over the last ten years on species, modes o f settlement and management, makes it
possible to propose suitable solutions for reforestation, agro-forestry and management o f rural and urban
peripheral zones with a view to fixing       the soil, restoring fertility, producing fuel wood and lumber,
fodder, food products and financial revenue from the sale o f forest products.
Urban periphery and agro-forestry reforestation programs in savannah and forested areas shall be partly
implemented (directly or indirectly) by ANAFOR in accordance with the national program for the
planting o fprivate and community forests.

                      3. PROSPECTSAND COMMITMENTS FOR 2005 - 2015

Future prospects centre on solving problems and reviving the sector. They are based on the consolidation
o f the reform framework established through SAC I11and the revival o f sector development programmes
through the Forest and Environment Sector Programme.
1.Consolidationof the reformframework
In spite of the progress that Cameroon has made during the last ten years towards sustainable
management o f forest resources and improvement o f governance and transparency, illegal exploitation of
resources i s still a disquieting phenomenon that jeopardises all o f the progress already made. This
phenomenon can only be entirely eradicated and forest resources sustainably managed if we commit to
uphold the SAC I11reform framework and pursue its implementation. The table below i s a recap o f the
reforms introduced and highlightsoverall reform implementationindicators.




                                                       61

       REFORMS                                           REFORMIMPLEMENTATION
 Competitive allocation of Transparent allocationof forest exploitationpermits (quality of bidding documents)
 exploitation permits      Participationof an independent observer inthe permit allocation committee meetings and
                           forwarding of reports
                           Exclusionof companies convicted of major infringements of forestry legislation andregulations
 Planning of forest        Allocation of forest concessions accordingto the programmeelaborated
 concessions allocation
 ForestryRevenue           Collection of forest-sectorspecific taxes (PSRF annual report)
 EnhancementProgramme      Collection of fines and damages arising from offences (PSRF annualreport)
                           Effective payment of all bank deposits (PSRF annual report)
                           Setting up a system for fair redistribution of RFA shares (equalisation fund)
 Forestrytaxation reform   Pursuanceof fiscal reform implementation
                           Effective and efficient consultation betweenthe Government (MINEF-MINFB) and the private
                           sector
 Sustainablemanagement     Regular meetingsof the Technical assessment committee of management plans and the Inter-
 of forest concessions     ministerial Committee for the approval of managementplans
                           Number ofconcessionsallocated since two years that have managementplans approvedby the
                           administration
                           Number of final conventions signed
 Supervision of            Regular monitoring of forest exploitation with satellite imagery (road map available eachyear)
 management plans          Participationof an independent observer inMINEF control activities
 Promotion of community    Transparent applicationof the rightof pre-emption for local communities                        1
 forests                   Effective start of the RIGC project (with HIPC resources)
 Restructuringof           Execution of ANAFOR working programme in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the
 ONADEF                    reform of that institution
 Combating illegal         Charging all establishedoffences; application and collection of penalties
 exploitation              Exclusion of all companies guilty of serious offences from submittingtenders for exploitation
                           permits, and even suspension of valid permitsintheir keeping



2. Better environmentalmonitoringand implementationof internationalconventions and
standards
The setting up o f the two Ministries should allow for greater visibility and clarificationo f the roles o f the
different stakeholders. This should enable us tackle environmentalproblems unequivocally, given that the
Permanent Secretariat for the Environment inthe former MINEFwas unable to go beyond the monitoring
o f a few conventions. The main mission here which consisted in setting the different standards in all
sectors o f activity was not carried out. Even the implementing instruments of the 1996 Framework law on
the environment were not drafted. By setting up the Ministry o f the Environment and protection o f
Nature, the Government i s thus endowing itself with an ambitious environmental policy that covers all
sectors, wards o f f the confusion that has always characterised environmental problems seen by the
general public as limited to the Forest and Wildlife sector. The Ministry mainstreams all the sectors
concerned so as to handle the cross-cutting nature o f environmental actions.
3. The NationalForestand EnvironmentSector Programme
This programme appears as a choice forum for the implementation o f forestry policy during the next
decade, Through the Forest and Environment Sector Programme, the Government seeks to secure
multifaceted assistance for the effective implementation o f its policy o f sustainable and participatory
management o f forest resources, so that they contribute significantly to improve the national economy as
well as the living environment and standards o f the populations. Priority areas o f such support include
capacity-building of national institutions in terms o f human, material and financial resources to enable
them effectively implement the policy on the field. Such strengthening is to be achieved through
implementation o f institutional reforms envisaged within the framework o f institutional review, and
support o f public and private efforts towards the sustainable management of forest and wildlife resources
at the economic, ecological and social levels.

                                                            62

 The Programme approach adopted for its preparation and implementation will also enable the
 Government to use FESP as a coordination framework for all actions that contribute to achieving the
 objectives of the country's forest and wildlife policy. FESP i s thus conceived o f by Government as a
 national sector development programme open to funding from all donors, the civil society, NGOs and the
 private sector. Through this programme, the Government seeks to endow itself with a control panel that
 will enable it pilot, monitor and control this sector with full knowledge o f the situation on the ground.
 Fundingo f part o f the programme inthe form o fbudgetary support should also make it possible to build
 the technical and financial capacities o f the administration.
 The onus o f implementation o f FESP also lies with the three other groups o f stakeholders that are the
private sector, the civil society and donors. While the public sector will henceforth seek to concentrate on
 i t s traditional duties, the private sector will take care o f production functions as a responsible partner
 concerned about upholding the laws and regulations in force. The civil society will participate in the
 implementation o f FESP as partner and observer o f compliance with the rules o f the game by all
 stakeholders. Donors and development partners will participate in the implementation o f FESP by
harmonising their approaches and selecting the components they intendto finance and support, depending
 on their interests and programme cycles.
FESP i s thus the framework-programme for the implementation o f the forestry policy that essentially
 aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable management o f forest ecosystems with a view to meeting
the local, national, regional and world needs o f present and future generations over the next ten (10)
years, and aims to mobilise the possible contributions o f various stakeholders including donors, NGOs
 and the civil society.
Funding o f the Programme during its first years will be done on the basis o f the results obtained and
 assessedwith the triggers summarised inthe table appended hereto12.


                                                                                                                   YaoundC, 1March 2005




 Minister for the Environment and Protection o fNature                                Minister for Forestry and Wildlife
                             HELEPierre                                                   EGBEACHUO Hillman




'2  Translation f r o m a signed original in French. Follows the FEDP policy matrix. This matrix i s the same used for the FEDPG and is presented in
Annex 1.


                                                                          63

REPUBLIQUE DUCAMEROUN                               REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
       Paix-travail-Patrie                             Peace- Work- Fatherland




                 POLITIQUE SECTORIELLEFORET ET
                           ENVIRONNEMENT VERT

        1. LESACOUIS
        1.1Ressourceset politiaue sectorielle

       Les for& denses humides du Cameroun, selon la FA0 (1997) s'ttendent sur une
superficie d'environ 19,598 millions d'hectares (soit 41.2 % du territoire national) dans
l a partie meridionale qui comprend 6galement des savanes arbortes et des galeries
forestibres couvrant environ 4,3 millions d'hectares. Les for& denses et les boisements
de savane couvrent une superficie de 21,070 millions d'hectares (soit 45 % du territoire
national) suivant 1'Cvaluation globale des superficies effectuke dans le cadre du Plan
National de Gestion de 1'Environnement (1996). Toutefois, ces for&ts ont subi et
continuent a subir des changernents importants soit par l'exploitation du bois et des
ressources naturelles, soit par la transformation en terres agricoles et d'autres
amknagements.

       Afin de placer le secteur forestier camerounais sur une voie de croissance et de
developpement durable, le Gouvemement camerounais y a entrepris depuis plus d'une
dizaine d'anntes de riformes profondes tant sur le plan institutionnel que rtglementaire.
Elles se sont traduites notamment par la creation en 1992 d'un Minist&re en charge de
l'environnement et des for&      l'elaboration d'une Nouvelle Politique Forestiere publite
en 1993, l'adoption d'un nouveau Code Forestier en 1994 et d'un Code de
1'Environnement en 1996, par l a crtation de deux Ministbres, l'un en charge des For&
et de la Fame et l'autre en charge de I'Environnement et la Protection de la Nature
suivant le DCcret N02004/320du 8 decembre 2004.

    L a Nouvelle Politique Forestiere se veut une composante importante du Plan
National de Gestion de 1'Environnement. Elle vient Cgalement en appui 2i la politique
agricole. L a L o i de 1994 portant Rtgime des ForCts, de la Faune et de l a PCche et la L o i
de 1996 portant Loi-Cadre relative a la Gestion de                     consacrent un cadre
politique et strattgique qui s'articule autour des axes suivants :

    -  la gestion durable des for&,        avec l'dtablissement d'un domaine forestier
       permanent et la creation des Unites Forestieres d'henagement (UFAs) en
    -  remplacement des licences forestikres ;
       la contribution B la croissance Bconomique et B la lutte contre la pauvret6 a travers
       l a retrocession d'une partie des recettes fiscales aux collectivites, la crtation
    -  d'emplois et la miseen place des fori% communautaires ;
       la gestion participative   travers la concertation avec la societe civile et le secteur
       privt, la responsabilisation des populations rurales et le dialogue permanent avec
    -- la communaute internationale ;
       la conservation de la biodiversitk B travers unreseaunational d'aires protigtes ;
       le renforcement du secteur public sur ses fonctions essentielles et le transfert des

    -  fonctions productives au secteur prive ;
       la mise en place d'un cadre reglementaire favorable au dtveloppement du secteur
    -  privC ax6 sur des conventions de long terme et 1' industrialisation ;
       la mise en coherence du systbme d'aminagement du territoire grgce a un plan de

    -  zonage ;
       l'amtlioration de la gouvernance avec l'augmentation de la transparence et le
       recours systematique  a l'information  publique.

    Cette politique est par ailleurs renforcte par des directives gouvernementales qui
mettent l'accent sur de nouveaux enjeux politiques que sont la lutte contre la pauvret6, la
decentralisation et la bonne gouvernance.      Elle est Cgalement en coherence avec les
orientations internationales en matiere environnementale (Sommet de Rio
Sommet de Johannesburg        -                                                      -  1992,
                                 2002). Un plan d`actions d'urgence (PAU) est venu
completer ces actions en 2000, en mettant notamment l'accent sur l a lutte contre le
braconnage et l'assainissement general du secteur. L e Plan d'actions d'Urgence lui-
m6me a Cte integrt dans l e Programme sectoriel ForCt-Environnement (PSFE).

       1.2. Les engagements du Cameroun sur le plan rkgional
           et international

   Lors du Sommet des chefs d'Etat d'Afrique Centrale en mars 1999, le Cameroun a
reaffirm6 ses engagements politiques au niveau national et sous-regional dans le
domaine de la gestion durable des tcosystkmes forestiers du Bassin du Congo. L a
gestion concertke des ressources forestikres de la sous-region dtcidte par les Chefs
d'Etat dans la Declaration de Yaounde du 17 mars 1999, a ainsi requ le soutien de la
communautt internationale       travers la resolution no54/214 par les Nations Unies. L e
Plan de convergence qui en est rCsulte ayant BtC approuve par la Conference des
Ministres en charge des for&ts de 1'Afrique Centrale (COMIFAC), a et6 adopt6 B la
dernikre conference des Chefs d'Etat de l a Commission des ForEts d'Afiique Centrale le
5 ftvrier 2005 a Brazzaville et reste un document prtsentant la compilation de

 des programmes sptcifiques nationaux des Etats signataires, programmes qui devront
 concourir A atteindre les objectifs convergents qui traduisent dans les faits les resolutions

 mise en ceuvre de ce plande convergence au niveau national, devra s'employer a Ctre la
 de la Declaration de Yaounde de mars 1999. L e PSFEdu Cameroun, programme de la

 rtplique nationale des programmes de la COMIFAC.

    L'engagement du Cameroun pour la gestion durable des ressources naturelles a
 l'echelle mondiale s'est par ailleurs traduit par la signature de plusieurs conventions a
 l'kchelle rtgionale et internationale relative       la for&t et a la biodiversite. Ces
 conventions sont :


    0  Accord sur la cr6ation de la Commission sur le Bassin du Lac Tchad (1964) ;
    0  Convention sur la conservation de la nature et des ressources naturelles (Alger,
        1968) ;
    0  Convention sur la protection de ]'heritage culture1 et nature1 (Paris, nov 1972);
    0  Convention sur le commerce international d'espices menacies d'extinction
       (CITES   - Washington,  mars 1973) ;
    0  Organisation africaine du bois (OAB Bangui, 1974) ;
                                              -
    0  Accord sur la regulation conjointe et la flore dans le Bassin du Lac Tchad (Enugu,
       d6cembre 1977) ;
    0  Accord International sur les bois tropicaux (Vienne, 1983) ;
    0  Accord de cooperation des pays d'Afrique centrale relatif     a la conservation de la
       faune sauvage (Libreville, avril 1983);
    0  Convention de Vienne sur la protection de la couche d'ozone (Vienne, mars
       1985) ;
    0  Protocole de Montreal sur le contrble des chlorofluorocarbones (Montreal, sept
       1987) ;
    0  Convention sur les changements climatiques (juin, 1992) ;
    0  Convention sur la diversit6 biologique (Paris, octobre 1994)   .

       1.3 Adication des Egislations forestikres et la gouvernance
            en Afrique (AFLEG)

       L e Cameroun A l'instar de la plupart des pays africains avait jug6 utile de
s'engager a l'initiative lancee en 1998 par les pays du G-8 soucieux de lutter contre
l'exploitation illigale, le commerce illicite des produits forestiers et la corruption dans le
secteur forestier.

       Cette initiative vise a stimuler, au plus haut niveau politique, la volonte
internationale de juguler ces fl6aux afin d'assurer une gestion durable de nos ressources
forestibres. C'est pourquoi, les efforts dtployts par le Cameroun pour faire face a cett

exigence ont Cte marques, au cours des dix dernieres annees, par des reformes d'ordre
politique, 16gislatif et institutionnel et la mise en place des instruments de base devant
favoriser l a conservation et la gestion durable des for& naturelles.

   I1s'agit notamment de :
   -   L'adoption d'un systeme d'exploitation forestiere qui se fait B travers des plans
       d'amdnagement visant la gestion durable des for& de production ;
   -   L'amClioration de la gouvernance forestiere par la mise en place d'un cadre
       reglementaire favorable au developpement du secteur priv6, et qui se traduit par la
       transparence dam le processus d'attribution des concessions forestibres et de
       contrble d'activit6s d'exploitation avec, comme innovation majeure, l'appel a la
       concurrence et la presence d'observateurs Indipendants ;
   -   L'adoption des Principes, Criteres et Indicateurs (PCI) du Cameroun en decembre
       2004, pour une Gestion durable des For&        au Cameroun est un des maillons de
       la certification.

   Les progrbs enregistris notamment en terme de reformes en direction de la
conservation et de la gestion durable des for&         au Cameroun sont remarquables et
mkritent d'Ctre 6valuCs et apprkciis en consequence. Mais, il s'agit d'un processus de
longue haleine faisant appel B la collaboration de tous les intervenants du secteur.

   L e Cameroun est determine B poursuivre ces reformes. I1 s'agit en fait d'assurer, de
manibre rationnelle, la gestion d'un patrimoine national de grande importance en tenant
compte des besoins hturs. Nous n'avons pas le droit de priver les generations ktures
des bienfaits que nous procure aujourd'hui la for&.

       1.4 L e plan de reformessectorielles

        Sur la base des acquis et en renforcement de la premiere phase de rCformes
essentiellement institutionnelles et legislathes du secteur forestier, une seconde phase de
rCformes a Cte lancee avec l'appui des Institutions de Bretton Woods, qui ont inttgre
dam le troisibme credit d'ajustement structure1 (CAS 111) accord6 au Cameroun, une
composante d6diee au secteur forestier. Cette composante se fonde sur trois objectifs
essentiels de la politique forestibre:
   -- la gestion durable de la ressource ;
      la gCn6ration de la croissance Cconomique et la contribution B la lutte contre la
      pauvret6 notamment par la r6trocession aux communes et communautes d'une

        partie des recettes forestibres, par la creation d'emplois dans la filibre-bois et des
        for& communautaires gCrees par les communautts elles-m&mes et,
    - le developpement d'un secteur privC dynamique et efficace.

        Les principales r6formes ainsi promues sont les suivantes :

Attribution comuetitive des titres d'exuloitation. Les titres d'exploitation forestikre
(Unites Forestikres d'AmCnagement, Ventes de Coupe) sont attribues selon unprocessus
de competition sur la base de criteres techniques et financiers. L a selection des dossiers
est effectuee par une Commission interministerielle, au sein de laquelle sibge un
observateur independant qui contribue a l'amtlioration de la transparence dans
l'attribution des titres.

Planification de I'attribution des titres d'exuloitation      . Dans le cadre d'une gestion
rationnelle de ses ressources naturelles, le Gouvemement du Cameroun a dCfini en 1999
une stratkgie de planification d'attribution des concessions (UFAs) et a apportd une
clarification quant aux diffkrents types de titres existants. Cette strategic a CtC remise 6
jour en Avril 2004 et privoit une attribution de l'ensemble des concessions d'ici 2006.
Cette planification constitue un outil important a la fois pour les Administrations
forestikre et fiscale et les sociCt6s d'exploitation forestibre.

CrCation du Programme de Sdcurisation des Recettes Forestikres (PSRF)             ,L e PSRF,
place sous la double tutelle des Ministbres en charge des For& et des Finances, a et6
mis en place en juin 1999 pour ameliorer la capacit6 de recouvrement des taxes
forestieres-jusque-16
specifiques a l'exploitation forestibre ainsi que les taxes de droit commun pour les
                          tres faible. L e PSRF centralise le recouvrement des taxes

grandes entreprises. Depuis la mise en place de ce Programme, le Ministere des
Finances a enregistrt une augmentation substantielle des recettes fiscales forestikres (a
l'exclusion des taxes d'exportation) : de 10 milliards de FCFA en 1998/99, 29 milliards
de FCFA en 2000/01 a 40 milliards en 2002/2003 au moment o i le        ~ systkme de taxation
est pleinement en place et les taux de recouvrement atteignant les 90%.

RCforme de la fiscalit6 forestiere. Un audit Cconomique et fiscal a CtC men6 sous la
responsabilit6 conjointe des Ministbres charges des Finances et des Fordts par un comitC
d'experts 6conomistes de renommCe intemationale. Cet audit avait pour objectif de
redCfmir un cadre de partage de la rente like A l'exploitation des ressources forestibres
entre le Gouvement du Cameroun, les opirateurs privCs et les populations. L e rapport
final de cet audit, valid6 en Mars 2000, a fourni un certain nombre de recommandations
qui ont donne lieu ?I  des reformes majeures adoptCes par I'Assembl6e Nationale, panni
lesquelles :
(i)attribution par voie competitive des permis d'exploitation,

 (ii) enplaced'unsystbmedecautionnement,
     mise
 (iii)clarification des zones de Points Francs,
 (iv) nouvelles modalitts de taxation des produits forestiers.

         Certaines recommandations restent encore en suspens, notamment le systbme de
quota a l'exportation des grumes et la mise en place d'un systbme de redistribution
equitable de la quote-part de la redevance forestibre accordte aux communes et
communautes locales (Fonds de perkquation).

Dkfinition des rbdes relatives aux ulans d'aminagement des forbts.
L'Arrbtt 222/MINEF, sign6 le 25 Mai 2001, dtfinit les regles d'tlaboration, de miseen
place et de suivi-contr6le des plans d'amknagement dans les concessions forestibres. I1
fournit un guide pratique detaillt pour tous les acteurs impliquCs dans la gestion durable
de la ressource forestiere.

Mise en place d'un svsteme de caution bancaire : les titres d'exploitation sont dtlivres
aux opkrateurs apres constitution d'une caution bancaire qui couvre les risques de non
respect des engagements fiscaux et environnementaux. Ce systeme a pour objectif de
dtcourager les pratiques sptculatives, courantes dans le secteur forestier.

Suuervision     des   ulans d'amtnagement : un partenariat          avec    deux     ONGs
environnementales de renommte internationale a permis de renforcer les capacitts du
Ministere chargt des ForCts dans le domaine de la supervision des plans d'amtnagement
et offie un suivi optrationnel des activitks d'exploitation dans les zones forestieres au
Cameroun. L a convention signCe entre le Gouvernement et Global Forest Watch -
World Resource Institute (GFW), permet de suivre les activitts d'exploitation forestibre
dans le domaine permanent et le domaine agroforestier aux moyens de technologies
avanctes d'imagerie satellite. Une carte de la distribution du rtseau routier a l'intkrieur
des UFAs et des V C est notamment produite chaque ann6e. Un deuxibme contrat a ttt
sign6 avec Global Witness (GW), qui est charge de participer, en tant qu'observateur
independant, aux activites de contrale menees par le Ministbre chargt des ForCts, depuis
les missions de terrain jusqu'au traitement de tous les cas contentieux. GW s'assure de
la conformitt des proctdures de contr6le ti chacune des Ctapes et est chargt de signaler
toute anomalie au Ministre chargt des Forbts.

Promotion des forCts communautaires : 1'ArrCtt 518MINEFICAl3, sign6 le 2 1dtcembre
2001, instaure la possibilitt pour les communautts locales de faire usage d'un droit de
preemption sw les for&ts dont elles sont riveraines. Ce droit de prdemption leur permet
de suspendre toute allocation de la for& concemCe A une soci6tC commerciale, et ce
pendant une ptriode de deux ans au               quelle la communautt peut choisir si elle
souhaite l'triger en for& communautaire.

Restructuration de I'ONADEF : cette restructuration est conforme aux objectifs de
redistribution des fonctions au sein du secteur forestier, avec une concentration des
services administratifs sur les tiches rigaliennes (definition des politiques, supervision
et contr6le) et une delegation des fonctions productives aux operateurs privks. Les
DCcrets presidentiels 2002/155 et 2002/156            du 18 Juin 2002 ont modifie la
denomination, les statuts, le mandat et les modalitts de financement de 1'ONADEF. L a
restructuration de I'ONADEF donne naissance a 1'Agence Nationale de Developpement
Forestier (ANAFOR) dont le mandat est de promouvoir, auprbs du secteur priv6 et des
communautes locales, les plantations forestibres Cconomiquement rentables et
respectueuses de I'environnement.

     2- LESDEFIS A SURMONTER

       2.1 Mise en cohbrence de la capacitCinstitutionnelle
           avec les ambitions des reformes.

       Un fort decalage existe au niveau des capacitis pour la mise en ceuvre de la
legislation forestibre et faunique, en outre on notait I'absence d'un cadre de coherence
et de coordination necessaire au developpement harmonieux de divers projets d'appui.
De plus, I'appui de la cornmunaute internationale est trbs disperse et se matkrialise par
un grand nombre de projets epars, mal appropriis par les institutions nationales et
enregistrant des impacts mitigks sur le terrain. Plus de 60 projets sous tutelle des
Ministh-es charges des For& et de 1'Environnement et plus d'une dizaine sous tutelle
d'autres administrations (principalement le Ministbre de la Planification, de la
Programmation du Developpement et de I'Amenagement du Territoire, le Ministbre de
I'Agriculture et du Diveloppement Rural et le Ministkre de 1'Economie et des Finances)
ont en effet actuellement des composantes plus ou moins likes 9 la protection, au
renouvellement et A la valorisation des ressources naturelles. Ces projets absorbent ainsi
annuellement pr6s de 10 Milliards FCFA de financements extkrieurs dans le seul secteur
forst-environnement ,auxquels ilconvient d'ajouter les fonds de contrepartie nationale.


       2.2 Amklioration du niveaude participationdes populations
            z i la gestion des ressources forestikres et fauniques.

       MalgrC les prescriptions de la politique forestiBre actuelle qui recommande la
participation des populations 9 la conservation et h la gestion des ressources forestibres,
cette participation reste faible. Les insuffisances s'expliquent par une definition peu
Claire des fonctions de la soci6ttc civile et des communautes locales qui accusent un
deficit important en matibre de competences et d'organisation pour une bonne gestion
des ressources redistribuees, la faible capacite technique des ONG en matibre de gestion

 et la forte mefiance qui existe entre elles et l'administration forestibre, les difficultis de
passage des operatem economiques du stade de           <( bikherons  )) B celui d'exploitants
 amknagistes.

        2.3 Rbtrocessiondes RedevancesForestihresAnnuelles
             pour le cie~.elo~neiiieli
                                     t rural communautaire.

        Au cours de la periode 2000-2004, plus de 25 milliards de FCFA ont et6
distribues aux-communes et aux communautes decentralisees comme quote part de la
redevance de superficie des zones soumises a exploitation commerciale. L'utilisation de
la presque totalite de ces fonds ont egalement fait I'objet d'audit et d'autres etudes.
MalgrC ces evolutions positives, beaucoup reste     a fairepour permettre une planification
plus transparente et participative des investissements et un contrble de la depense plus
efficace.

        2.4 Amelioration des performancesen matihrede luttecontre
            le braconnageet I'exploitation illbeale des ressources naturelles.

        Les capacitis de contrdle du Ministere charge des For& et de l a Faune restent
encore relativement faibles tant au niveau du contrdle que du suivi des contentieux et de
l'application des sanctions. Malgre l'association d'un observateur independant aux
activitds de contrble du Ministere charge des for&ts et de la Faune, les resultats restent
sont mitiges. Seule la mise en place d'une plus forte organisation pour toutes les phases
de la chahe de contrdle du Minist2re charge des forgts et de la Faune peut assurer des
resultats durables et capitaliser les apports de l'observateur independant notamment par
la publication du sommier des infractions et la mise A la connaissance du public des
informations relatives aux contentieux qui l'opposent aux optrateurs economiques
exergant dans le secteur forestier.

        2.5 Acceleration de I'intCgration des mesures environnementales
            aux activitbs de    production foresticre.

     Plus de six ans aprbs la mise en vigueur de la loi-cadre relative B la gestion de
I'environnement au Cameroun, les preoccupations environnementales sont restees des
formalites administratives dans le cadre des operations d'amtnagement forestier. I1 est
donc necessaire     d'assurer    une application rigoureuse des plans de gestion
environnementale notamment dans certaines unites forestibres d'amenagement a
proximite des aires protegees o~ les Cvaluations environnementales constituent un
prealable essentiel. Par ailleurs, il faudra renforcer et rendre plus fonctionnelle
l'institution en charge de I'environnement, ainsi que les structures consultatives telles

que l a Commission Nationale Consultative de 1'Environnement et le Dtveloppement
Durable ( CNCEEDD).

       2.6. Aires prot6gCes - Parcs nationaux.

    L e reseau des aires prottgtes a it6 developpe surtout au cours des 15 dernieres
annees grbce notamment au programme de conservation et de Gestion de la Biodiversite
au Cameroun (PCGBC). Les aires protegees de Faune couvrent 7211819 ha soit 15.1 %
du territoire national.

     Cette superficie est repartie comme suit : 10 Parcs nationaux ; 10 Reserves de
Faune ; 01 Smctuaire de Faune ; 03 Jardin Zoologiques ; 40 Zones d'interets
CynCgCtiques ; 16 Zones d'interits CynCgCtiques B Gestion Communautaire qui ont C t i
mises la disposition des ComrnunautCs villageoises. La gestion technique et financikre
des zones a gestion communautaire incombe a ces populations qui peuvent s i elles le
       ii


dtsirent, solliciter l'assistance technique du personnel du Ministere en charge des for&
et de la Faune.
       Par ailleurs, une situation de reference d'efficacite de gestion de tous les parcs
nationaux est Btablie.

         2.7. Expansion et Gestion participative des aires prot6des :

     Les differentes mesures entreprises a cet effet :
1) Les operateurs economiques des zones de chasse affermees sont astreints au respect
des cahiers de charge qui leur prescrivent des Oeuvres sociales au profit des
communautes riveraines.

     En plus desdites ceuvres sociales, les collectivites bCnCficient de 50% des taxes
d'affermage qui sont annuelles et.par hectare au prorata de 40% pour les Communes et
10% pour les Communautes. L e Cameroun s'est dote Cgalement d'une reglementation
quipermet aux populations locales d'&tre consultees tant a la creation et la delimitation
des aires protegees qu'a la gestion de celles-ci

2) La consolidation des aires protegees d. l'interieur du territoire national et la creation
des aires protegtes transfiontalikres.     Les conventions des complexes de la Sangha
Cameroun ( Parc National Lobeke), RCA (Parc national de Dzanga Sangha) et Congo
(Parc National de Nouabale Ndoki) et celles de Gahanga-Gumti (Nigeria) - TchabaI
Mbabo (Cameroun) sont deja signees.          Celles entre la reserve de la faune du Dja (
Cameroun)- Mink6b6 (Gabon)           Reserve d'Odjala    (Congo)     d'une
(Cameroun) - Cross River ( Nigeria ) d'autre part sont en cours de preparation.


               ---1.F
                I."!

3-) L a lutte contre le braconnage notamment          travers la mise sur pied d'une Unite
Centrale de Lutte anti- braconnage, d'un comitC national et des comites provinciaux en
charge de cette optration. Ces Comites associent les sociCtCs de transport (CAMRAIL
et CAMAIR).

4-) Ces mesures sont        couplees aux initiatives rtgionales que sont : CEFDHAC,
COMIFAC, OCFSA, ECOFAC, WWF, CARF'E                           et au respect des normes et
conventions internationales (CITES)

       2.8.  Extension des programmes en faveur des repions arides
             et des regions de montagnes

      L e Cameroun de par sa position giographique, fait partie de la zone Soudano-
Sahtlienne menacCe par la dtsertification. Les 6cosystbmes forestiers sont fiagiles,
souvent du fait de leur surexploitation par les populations pour la subsistance.

      Les resultats de la recherche au cours de la demiere decennie tant au plan des
especes que des modes d'installation et de gestion, permettent de proposer des solutions
adapttes en matiere de reboisement, d'agro-foresterie et de gestion des terroirs ruraux et
pkriurbains visant a fixer les sols, a restaurer la fertiliti, a produire du bois de chauffe et
de service, du fourrage, des produits alimentaires mais 6galement des revenus
monttaires par la vente des produits forestiers.

      Les programmes de reboisement ptriurbain et d'agro-foresterie dans les zones de
savane et de forst seront mis en ceuvre en partie (directement ou indirectement) par
1'ANAFOR      suivant le programme national des plantations forestieres             priv6es et
communautaires.

     3. LES PERSPECTIVES ETLES ENGAGEMENTSPOURLA PERIODE
             2005-2015

      Les perspectives d'avenir se focalisent sur la solution des problemes et la relance
du secteur. Elles sont fondtes sur la consolidation du cadre de reformes ttablies a
travers le CAS111et la relance des programmes de dtveloppement sectonel par le biais
duprogramme national ForCtsEnvironnement

     3.1. ConsoIidationdu cadre de rbformes

     Malgr6 les avancees remarquables que l e Cameroun a accomplies au cours de la
derniere decennie dans le domaine de la gestion durable des ressources forestieres et de
I'amClioration de la gouvernance et de la transparence, l'exploitation illkgale des

  ressources reste unphtnomene inquibtant et compromettant pour l'ensemble des efforts
  dtjd rtalises. Ce phtnomene ne pourra Etre totalement tradiqut et les ressources
  forestieres ne pourront 6tre effectivement gtrtes de faqon durable qu'h la condition que
  nous nous engagions a maintenir le cadre des rtformes du CAS I11et a persevtrer dans
  leur mise en oeuvre. L e tableau ci-dessous fait un rkcapitulatif des rtformes introduites
  par le CAS IIIet signale des indicateurs globam de suivi de mise en ceuvre de ces
  rtformes.


 Attribution des titres     Attribution transparente des titres d'exploitation forestitre (qualitb des dossiers1
~




 d'exploitation par voie    d'appel d'offie)
 competitive                Presence d'un observateurindependantaux Commissionsd'attribution des
                            titres et transmissiondes rapports
                            Exclusiondes sociCtBs responsablesd'infractions majeuresB la ICgislationet
                            reglementation forestitre
 Planification de           Attribution des concessions conformkmentA la planifcation ClaborCe
 I'attribution des
 concessionsforestikrea
 Programme de              Recouvrementdes taxes specifiquesau secteur forestier (Rapp. AM. PSRF)
 Sbcurisation des Recettes  Recouvrementdes amendes, dommages et inter& liCs aux infractions (Rapp.
 roresti6res                Ann. PSRF)
                           Dep6teffectif de toutes les cautionsbancaires(Rapp. Ann. PSW)
                           Miseen placed'un systtmederedistributionequitabledes quote-part de la
                            RFA (fonds de perequation)
 Reformes de la fiscalite   Executioncontinue des reformes fiscales
 foresticre                 Concertation effective et effjcaceentre les Administrations (MINEF-MNFIB)
                            et le secteur privC
 Ambnagemeot durable des    RCunionsrdgulitres de la Commission d'analyse technique des plans
 concessionsforestikres     d'amenagernent et du Comiti interministkrield'approbation des plans
                            d'amtnagement
                            Proportiondes concessions attribueesdepuis plus de 2 ans ayant unplan
                            3'amBnagement approuvC par I'Administration
                            Nombrede conventionsdifinitives signCes
                            S i i i i I re:illiti \le I'exploitation forestitre par imageriesatellite(carte dureseau
 d'amenagement             routierdisponiblechaque ann6e)
                            Presence d'un observateur independantdans les activites de contr6le du
                           MINEF
 Promotion des fori%       4pplication transparentedu droit de preemptionpour les communauteslocales
 communautaires            DemarrageeffecGfdu projet RIGC (sur financement PPTE)
                            Executiondes Dromammesde travail ANAFOR conformement B I'orienration                    '
 I`ON.IDEF

 illkgale                   les ptnalites
                            3xclusionde toutes les sociCt6 responsablesd'infractions graves, des appels
                            i'ofres pour I'obtention de titres d'exploitation, voire suspensiondes titres en
                            :ours de validit6

. -      . -




            3.2 Meilleur suivi environnementalet application des conventions
                  et normesinternationales :

            Avec la mise en place des deux ministeres, on devrait avoir une visibilitC plus
     nette et m e clarification des rbles des diffdrents acteurs. Ce qui devrait nous permettre
     d'aborder les problbmes environnementaux de manibre sans equivoque car le Secrttariat
     Permanent a I'Environnement de 1'Ex-MTNEF a CtC incapable d'aller au -dela du suivi
     de quelques conventions. L'essentiel du travail A faire, la mise en place des differentes
     normes dans tous les secteurs d'activitks n'a pu Stre rCalisCe           mCme les textes
     d'applications de la loi cadre sur 1'Environnement de 1996 n'ont pu &re BlaborCs. Avec
     l'avknement du Ministbre de 1'Environnement et de la Protection de la Nature,             le
     Gouvemement se donne des moyens d'une politique environnementale ambitieuse
     couvrant tous les secteurs et permettant d'tviter la confusion qui a toujours exist6 sur
     les problbmes environnementaux que le grand public limite a ceux existant dans le
     secteur For&     et Faune et prendre ainsi une hauteur sur l'ensemble des secteurs
     concern& pour traiter de latransversalit6 des actions environnementales.

            3.3 L e Programme National Sectoriel Forbt-Environnernent :

            Ce Programme se positionne en tant que cadre unique de mise en ceuvre de la
     politique forestiere au cours de la prochaine decennie ; A travers le Programme Sectoriel
     ForCt-Environnement, le Gouvemement voudrait obtenir un appui rnultiforme dans la
     mise en ceuvre effective de sa politique de gestion durable et participative des ressources
     forestibres, afin de les amener a contribuer de manibre significative a l'amelioration de
     I'Cconomie nationale, du cadre et du niveau de vie des populations. Dans cet appui
     attendu, figure en bonne place le renforcement des institutions nationales en moyens
     humains, mattriels et financiers pour les rendre capables d'extcuter effcacement cette
     politique sur le terrain. Ce renforcement passe nkcessairement par la mise en place des
     reformes institutionnelles prCconistes dans le cadre de la revue institutionnelle et le
     soutien des efforts publics et privts dans la mise en place d'une gestion durable des
     ressources forestibres et fauniques sur le triple planCconomique, tcologique et social.

            Avec 1'Approche Programme choisie pour son Claboration et sa mise en ceuvre, le
     PSFE permettra Cgalement au Gouvernement de mettre en place un cadre cohCrent pour
     toutes les interventions qui concowent a la rkalisation des objectifs de la politique
     forestibre et faunique du pays. I1 est ainsi conpu comme un programme national de
     dCveloppement sectoriel Ctabli par le Gouvernement, mais ouvert au financement de tous
     les bailleurs de fonds, ainsi qu'aux contributions de la sociCtC civile, des ONG et du
     secteur priv6. Par ce programme en effet, le Gouvernement voudrait pouvoir disposer
     enfin d'un tableau de bord qui luipennette d'assurer le pilotage, le suivi et le contrble de
     ce secteur en toute connaissance de cause. L e financement d'une partie du programme

sous forme d'appui budgktaire devrait Bgalement permettre un renforcement des
capacitts techniques et financibres au sein de l'administration.

       Mais la mise en auvre du PSFE incombe egalement aux trois autres groupes
d'acteurs qui sont: le secteur privk, la sociktk civile et les bailleurs de fonds. Alors que le
secteur public cherchera dksormais ?I se concentrer sur les tgches re'galiennes, le secteur
privk s'occupera des fonctions de production en partenaires responsables et respectueux
des dispositions le'gales et rkglementaires. L a sociktk civile participera a la mise en
oeuvre du PSFE en tant que partenaire et observateur du respect des rbgles du jeu par
tous les acteurs. Les bailleurs de fonds et les partenaires au dkveloppement participeront
au PSFE harmonisant leurs approches et se positionnant sur les composantes qu'ils
entendent financer et accompagner en fonction de leurs inter& et cycles de
programmation.

       L e PSFE est donc l e programme-cadre de mise en euvre de la politique forestibre
qui vise fondamentalement la conservation et           la gestion durable des 6cosystkmes
forestiers en vue de rkpondre aux besoins locaux, nationaux, rkgionaux et mondiaux des
gtnirations prksentes et futures sur les dix (10) prochaines annees et vise mobiliser les
contributions possibles des differents acteurs (Bailleurs de fonds), y compris celles des
ONG et de la socittk civile.

       L e financement du programme au cours des premibres anntes se fera sur la base
des rtsultats obtenus, evaluks par des dkclencheurs rtsumCs dans le tableau ci-aprbs
annexk.


L e Ministre de I'Environnement                                                            ne
 et de la Protection de la Nature

                                                      ' . '1,.I./




                                         .    .---

       P




. -
 C



a


f



,

     ANNEX6: ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIALASSESSMENTREPORTSUMMARIES


    1. SUMMARY OFENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL IMPACTASSESSMENT

This study was realized by the Cameroon Ministry o f Environment and Forests, with the support of a
multidisciplinary team o f national and international consultants. It comes within the framework o f
preparing the Forests Environment Sector Program (FESP). It i s motivated by the double concern to
optimize the environmental and social impacts o f the Program during its execution and to ascertain if the
program i s generally in line with World Bank environmental and social policies. This report i s based, not
only on the contributions o f consultants specialized inimpact assessment, but also on the general work o f
sector analysis, o f program formulation, o f dialogue and public consultation including the institutional
review o f the forestry sector done by the Ministry with the support o f FESP National Team since it was
set up inJanuary 2001.
Sector impact study relative to a national program
This impact study covers the entire forest and environment sector. It examines the sector policy developed
by the Government since 1994 as well as the new FESP program conceived as an institutional support
instrument for implementing this policy. It brings out action plan and mitigating measures with a view to
reducing the negative impacts and optimizing the positive impacts o f the program.

    0   National geographic coverage. The FESP covers the entire national territory, not limitingitself to
        specific sites. Program activities can therefore be developed anywhere in the ten provinces o f
        Cameroon.

    0   Sector thematic coverage. As a support program for the implementation o f the national policy for
        the management of forests and environment, FESP by definition covers all activity domains and
        problems linkedto the sustainable management o f the forestry ecosystems (inthe broad sense), to
        the interfaces with land use planning, rural development, economic growth, industrial
        development and poverty reduction, as well as with biodiversity conservation.
        Program lifespan and incremental planning. FESP i s destined to accompany the implementation
        o f the Forest Policy over a period of 5 to 10 years. Specific Program activities are not therefore
        detemined at inception, but rather will be defined annually according to a participatory
        programming mechanism.

    0   Multi-donor involvement. The FESP i s a government program that will be supported by
        operations, projects and programs of a range of donors interested in the management o f forests in
        Cameroon. It will provide a framework for coherence and synergy o f international support in the
        sector, and will ensure that this external support i s well in line with the framework o f the national
        policy.
The present study comes within the framework o f the cycle o f preparing the World Bank support
operation, but can serve as reference to other donors or technical or political Cameroon partners. The
study has therefore taken into account those particularities inherent in the sector program approach. It
consists o f a sector strategic assessment and i s therefore different from a classical impact study o f the
"project" type where activities are known with precision before hand and enclosed intime and space.
Baseline - the situation at Program inception
The third chapter o f the study describes the state o f affairs o f the forests and environment sectors, largely
by referring to related recent appraisals by MINEF and its partners. Forestry exploitation is the second
economic sector after petrol. N o n timber forest products, wildlife, and biodiversity in general are
resources that represent potentially substantial sources o f national income for Cameroon.


                                                       83

The ForestryLaw o f 1994, the New Forestry Policy of 1994 and the EnvironmentLaw of 1996 establish a
political and strategic framework for the sustainable management o f forests. Completed by PNGE and
PAFN, this policy i s coherent with international environmental guidelines (Rio Summit, the Heads o f
state's Summit o f Yaounde, 1999) and with the national strategy o f the fight against poverty (PRSP). This
policy i s presently implemented thanks especially to a considerable plan o f sector reforms executed
through the third structural adjustment credit (SAC 111).A plan o f urgent actions (PAU) was developed to
complete these actions by especially putting emphasis on the anti-poaching and on the stabilization o f the
sector.
The Forest Policy has already exhibited positive results, as well as the country's political will to promote
sustainable management o f forests, and the Government's recognition o f their contribution to
socioeconomic development.
        An indicative plan o f land use allocation assigns forest spaces priority to rural development,
        forest management, or to nature conservation.
        More transparency, participation o f independent observers in concession allocation commissions
         (access to resources), in forestry supervisory missions (management o f resources).
        Direct sharing o f revenue from forestry exploitation with local communities bordering forest
         concessions, and the regular publication o f the various shares inthe press.
         Opening up fauna and forestry resources to the community and decentralized management, and
         equally through contractual relations with the administration.
        The sharing o f roles between the public and private sectors, with the State, the owner o f forests
         and representative o f the general interest, which concentrates on its stately functions; and the
        private sector assuming commercialization and execution functions often through contractual
        relations with the administration(delegated functions).
        A reform o f forestry taxation, with the simplification o f the procedures and the amelioration of
        the recovery capacity.
         A strengthening o f the stately supervisory function to discourage poaching and illegal cutting of
        wood with especially the participation o f independent observers and the participation o f the civil
         society; support o f international NGOsto fight against unlawful acts.
         The initiation of a partnership between the different users in a given area and complementary
        resources, aimed at associating sustainable management, the updating o f customary laws and the
         respect o f the practices o f indigenous peoples.
This political commitment, even ifit has to bepermanently maintained and confirmed, no longer seems to
be the main constraint in the execution of policies on the field. However, the sector policy i s still laboring
to be implemented at the national level due to an increasing discrepancy between the political framework
on one hand, and the capacities o f MINEP to ensure the implement this policy on the field, on the other
hand.
         Consequences o f the economic crises o f the 80s and 9Os, which have deprived the government of
         i t s means, limited the resources o f the staff and contributed to disincentive and to the search for
         solutions independent o f state officials.
        Political and administrative bottlenecks due to the slowness o f the services o f MINEF to act as
        partner o f commercial agents to support them positively; lack o f mediation practices (directly or
        in mobilizing NGOs and technical bodies) between commercial agents and local populations;
        insufficiency inthe support to community activities (forests, huntingareas, game ranching).
        The difficulty to implement policy reforms with the new stakes: new decision centers and new
         scales of power. The democratic framework i s there but the actors aren't yet ready to assume their
        rights and duties.



                                                        84

     0    Insufficient synergy between policies o f different sectors: agriculture - animal breeding, hygiene
          -health-education, generalinvestmentframework.

     0    Stakes and tensions in local societies for access to power and to land ownership with the
          preponderance o f a new elite o f local leaders, the strengthening o f feudal powers inthe North and
          the rapid transformationof acephal societies inthe south, makingit difficult to builda partnership
          based on local democratic practices. The problem o f the indigenous peoples who carry out their
          activities on very vast areas very difficult to determine.

     0    Lack o f appropriation o f support from international cooperation, and lack o f sustainability o f
          projects, duplication between scattered projects that supports the sector policy in a heterogeneous
          way.

The Forest EnvironmentSector Program
FESP i s a national, sector and multi-donor program, which aims at supporting the Government in its
implementation in the field o f its policy o f participatory and sustainable management o f forestry and
environment resources. This policy and the program that supports it have to contribute to improving the
lives of rural populations and to fight against poverty, to ensure the everlastingness o f forestry ecosystems
and biodiversity conservation.
FESP articulates around five components, with one mainstreamed (institutional capacity building) and
four themes:
     1, Regulation, follow up and environmental information.
     2. Development of production forests in the permanent forestry domain and valorizing forestry
          products.
     3 ,  Biodiversity conservation and the development o f fauna resources.
     4. Community management o f forestry and fauna resources.
     5,   Institutional capacity building,training and research.
FESP puts emphasis on the building o f the capacities o f national institutions responsible for ensuring the
sustainable management of forests. It aims at restoring their capacities to implement on the field forestry
policy guidelines. It aims at reducing the present gap between policies known to be o f good quality at the
international level, and the weak capacity o f national institutions to translate them on the field, and to
ensure their supervision.
Analysis of Programimpactsand mitigationmeasures
The FESP is intended to facilitate the effective implementation of forest and environment sector policy,
and to slow the degradation of Cameroon's natural resource base which has persisted and in many
instances accelerated since the early 1990s. It seeks to endow responsible ministries and government
agencies with the capacity to administer and enforce the policies and regulations that comprise the sector
policies.
The study tries to identify the positive and negative, social and environmental impacts o f FESP for each
o f the five components. By the nature of the program approach developed here to support national policy,
impacts are rather expressed interms o f risks than interms o f established facts.
Social risks. Despite the positive social impacts o f forest development since the early 1990s in terms of
job creation and rural infrastructure, markedly less progress has been evident with respect to access to
financial benefits, civil society participation in forest management, or the provision o f social services,
These failings represent important missed opportunities which have deprived local communities of the
full benefits o f forest development, while the environmental impacts o f that development have continued
to erode the forest resource base - both in the rich, humid forests o f the south and the fragile, dry forests
of the north. Itinerant exploitation, without contributing to development, has not supported a sustainable
development model. In the north, the degradation o f fragile highland forests have had clearly negative
impacts on the livelihoods o f population groups that depend on it for wood.

                                                        85

These negative impacts o f forest development are very largely attributable to the lack o f institutional
capacity to carry out Cameroon's Forest Policy, rather than to the Policy itself. The FESP's strong
orientation on capacity building focuses sharply on narrowing the gap between policy and
implementation, and as such represents a potentially decisive departure from the cycle o f unsustainable
development and exploitation that makes no contribution to development. This cycle shows no sign o f
slowing down or reversing itself by its own accord, and the risks o f nonintervention are expressed below
in the scenario without an FESP Program. The scenario with the Program realizes quite strong social
benefits through the extension o f forestry benefits to civil society, the development o f community
forestry, the role o f local communities in supervision and monitoring, and continuedjob creation.
Two types of risk are manifested inthe implementationo f the Forest Policy itself:

     0    Excessive territorial specialization and limitation local populations' access to forestry resources
          (food, wood, arable land) during the processes o f forest zoning, o f classification o f UFA and o f
          parks, (A risk taken into account in the Policy Frameworkfor Access to Resources presented in
          Annex 4 of the study.)
     0    Marginalization o f some indigenous groups (pygmies) by ignoring their cultural specificities,
          which makes their inclusion inpositive development outcomes much more difficult. (A risk taken
          into account in the Indigenous Peoples Development Planpresented in Annex 6 of the study).
Concerning environmental risks. Cameroon forestry ecosystems have been subject to strong destructive
pressures for several decades: deforestation and soil erosion in the north; fragmentation, commercial
poaching, and resulting species and biodiversity loss in the south. Here too, these impacts are more
attributable to lack of institutional capacity in the last decade than to the Forest Policy itself. And here
too, the contrast between the scenario with, and the scenario without a Program i s striking. The FESP has
a potentially profound positive impact on the environment, for much the same reason that it has
potentially strong social impacts. The introduction and administration o f management plans and control
mechanisms promise particularly strong impacts, and substantially mitigate the risks associated with
Programimplementation:

     0         An increase in the huntingand poaching pressure due to the opening up o f regions otherwise
           inaccessible and to organizing bush meat channels in which could be inserted illegal products o f
          poaching. (Mitigation measures include provisions for fauna preoccupations in the development
          plans of forestry grants, demarcation of new protected areas, and effective enforcement of an
           anti-poachingprogram.)

      0        An overexploitation o f agricultural and pastoral soils, water, fuelwood, PFNL, and other
          resources, particularly in the northern regions, resulting from an overspecialization o f land uses.
           (Mitigation measures include employing an integrated landscape approach to land use             "- land
          planning approach to zoning rather than aprimarily delimiting approach toforestry domains.)
Extra-sector risks. Extra-sector environmental risks include forest penetration by farmers and pastoralists,
miningactivities, and agro-industries (particularly cotton inthe north). Cameroon's three percent annual
population growth rate implies significant increases in demand for agricultural products and increased
pressure imposed on forests by agriculture. Zoning, local negotiation and the formalization o f land
allocations may offset these threats, but these will require a national land management and agricultural
intensificationprograms.
The FESP at present appears to take little account o f the cross sectoral implications o f policies and sector
programs relating to agriculture, animal production, and other sectors. And yet, coordination and
negotiation with other sector programs-the                      PNGP in particular-is likely to become increasingly
important as the decentralization process unfolds.
Mitigating measures. The study proposes measures aimed at mitigating negative impacts and optimizing
positive impacts o f the forestry policy and the support program for its implementation. Given the nature

12 `Ame`nagementdu temioire,' originally translated as `town planning'

                                                                    86

of the FESP program, measures are o f two kinds: (a) specific recommendations to be integrated in the
formulation of FESP from the final phase o f technical preparation-conception o f the components; and (b)
proposals to set up a system o f follow up - management o f the impacts o f the program which will be
implementedduringthe larger implementation o f the program.
The study has led to the following recommendations which have already been reflected in the Program
documents prepared by the Government. It i s important that these documents be equally reflected in the
formulation o f the support projects o f partners o f the FESP:
     1. Adjustments in   (1) the technical conception o f the Program away from a more-or-less strictly
        forestry-related approach to a land use planning approach inareas not yet assigned a zone or land
        allocation; (ii)the conduct o f preliminary consultations on the classification of UFAs and
        protected areas (iii)  contractual relations with users o f forests and sport hunting zones,
        (iv) encouragements to implement development plans and to build capacities o f the
        administration for verifying plans and supervising on the field, (v) the implication and the role o f
        populations in the management o f natural resources, (vi) the clarification o f the functions o f the
        administration ,NGOs,technical bodies, private contractors.
     2. Steps to help change the mentality o f the different partner groups concerned with a strategy o f
        training and building capacities contributing to this change o f mentalities, puttingback inplace a
        framework that encourages performance in administration: system o f assessing and encouraging
        performance, sanction system, such as foreseen in the institutional review. Engaging the
        institutionalreform.
     3. An original system o fparticipatory follow up-evaluation, with a plan o fmanagement and follow
        up o f the environmental and social impacts based on quality, with follow up and management of
        the impacts at the decentralized level parallel to the annual planning process and to follow up     -
        evaluation of the program, with continuous verification (screening) o f activities o f the program all
        through its implementation. Giving responsibilities to SPE, the perennial institution in charge of
        environmentalmonitoring.
     4. A Plan o f Development for Pygmies (PDPP) and the application o f the procedures o f classifying
        protected areas and o f UFAsinthe framework o f the Master Plan o f Access to Resources,

Analysis of Alternatives
Inthe absence o fan FESP the current dynamic o findividual, independently implementedprojects lacking
any programmatic relationship with one another i s likely to continue. The projects may indeed yield
positive micro-level impacts, but without affect on the capacity o f national institutions and with little
potential to reverse national level resource degradation or to secure any significant contribution to
national economic development. N o other prospective entrant shows the potential to reduce the gap
between Cameroon's sound forest and environment policies and its limited capacity to implement and
monitor those policies inthe field.
As concerns the World Bank specifically, the alternatives in the without FESP scenario consist of two:
cessation o f support, or limiting support to individual sub sectors. In the clear absence o f alternative
channels o f sector-wide support to Cameroon's forests and environment, a decision by the Bank to
decline supporting the FESP would imply a decision to decline support to these sectors altogether. This
would represent an outright repudiation o f the policies that led the Bank to back Cameroon's ambitious
program o f reforms in the framework o f SAC 111.Given the achievements o f that reformprogram and the
clear indication o f continued Government commitment to the reform process implicit in the
Government's request for Bank support to the FESP, such a reversal could only indicate a change in
attitude by the Bank itself. Resorting to selective, non-programmatic Bank support to geographically
discrete projects would amount to a reversal that i s scarcely less dramatic, and a renunciation (by the
principle actor) of the network o f involved partners the Bank was so instrumental in bringing together.
Here too, such a reversal could only be construed as a reflection of attitude change within the Bank itself,


                                                        87

Plan of follow up and management of social and environmental impacts
The plan o f monitoring and management o f social and environmental impacts (PSGI) will be
implemented by the Ministry o f Environment and Nature Protection (MINEP). The capacity o f this
newly-created Ministry was upgraded in the process o f program preparation, based on an Institutional
Review.
Analysis of FESPin relation to World Bank safeguards
The FESP was reviewed inrelation to the following safeguards:

    0    OP/BP 4.01         -  Environmental Assessment. The environmental assessment was conducted
         independently by a team not associated with the FESP, and drew from a number o f constructive
         public consultations and information sessions. It concluded that through its capacity building
         component the FESP will be able to ensure adequate monitoring, and mitigation o f the
         environmental impacts o f forest programs.

    0    OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats. The Government Program contains explicit provision for the
         protection of natural habitats and the conservation o f highvalue conservation forests. N o Program
         activities bring about a conversion o f natural habitats to other land uses, and the classification o f
         areas as protected based on the biodiversity located therein represents systematic attention to the
         preservation o f such areas. The Program i s specifically defensive o f natural habitats, anticipating
         agricultural, agro-industrial, and other sources of pressure that pose a threat o f expansion into
         new, previously untouched areas. The erstwhile Ministry o f Forests and Environment translated
         the results of the institutional review into an institutional development letter, marlung the
         Government's commitment to cover the recurrent costs related to overseeing protected areas.13

    0    OP/BP 4.20 - Indigenous peoples. FESP will actively contribute to the juridical recognition o f
         customary forms of land and resource use by indigenous peoples, and will ameliorate those
         applications of the Forest Law that have potentially adverse affects on those peoples. Preventive
         measures are defined in the Development Plan o f the Pygmies (the summary o f which follows
         this summary) to ensure that they fully benefit from the opportunities createdby the newpolicies:
         creation of community forests, pre-emptive law, access to their share of surface charges,
         employment, protection of users' traditional rights. Moreover, the indigenous peoples will
         participate inlocal site follow up committees.

    0    OP/BP 4.30 - Involuntary Displacement and Access to resources. FESP does not include
         activities that can provoke involuntary displacements o f populations. A master-plan and local
         consultation and negotiationprocedures are inplace to prevent and mitigate reductions o f access
         to resources which could result from land use planning, classification o f permanent forestry
         domain, and the creation of new protectedareas.

    0    OP/BP 4.36 - Forestry. FESP has been conceived as a sector program that covers all the stakes
         linked to forests and the green environment throughout the national territory o f Cameroon, FESP
         will moreovernot directly fund forestry exploitation activities, butrather buildthe capacity o fthe
         administration and the operators to prepare and implement sustainable management plans. FESP
         will facilitate the development of independent certification.

Framework-Plan of Access to Resources
A Framework-Plan of Access to Resources is already largely operational and reduces the risks o f access
loss, The plan includes specific obligatory procedures for public consultation and the maintenance o f
users' rights inall circumstances.
Land use i s regulated according to National Plan o f Land Allocation (PNAT) and Operational Technical
Units(UTOs). PNAT defines two mainkindsof areas, the Permanent ForestsDomain (DFP) andthe Non


13The Ministry of Forests and Environment was succeeded by separate Environment and Forest Ministries in December 2004

                                                             88

Permanent Forests Domain (DFNP). Each domain i s itself cut out into major zone types (forest
concessions, wildlife concessions, protected areas, community managed forests and wildlife concessions,
council forests), which are each subject to the procedures o f classification. (UTOs) are the territorial units
of the project intended to include local populations in a participatory process o f classification which
compensates limitations to user rights in some zones with recognition in other zones and financial
fallouts.
The classification procedures o f zones are defined by the various 1995 decrees o f implementation o f the
Forest Law, and are developed inthree phases:
     1. Local Information and consultations
    2. Preparation o f the classification file and the signature of the decree
    3.    The demarcation o f land and issuing o f landtitles
These procedures have been tested and are already being applied in areas such as the National Parks o f
Campo Ma'an and LobCke.
The 1994 Forest L a w and its 1995 implementation decrees guarantee the user rights o f local communities
during the classification o f a forest. All classification o f the forestry sector therefore secures the
customary rights o f the local populations on these spaces and leads to the primacy o f the management
choices of the populations concerned on the national domain areas. Any modification to access rights to
land and resources results from state-community negotiations. Demarcations can only therefore be
validated in agreement with the local populations. The Forest Law stipulates that any classification o f a
forestry concession that would lead to the loss o f access to resources i s required to define compensations
inpartnership with the populations concerned. The technical specifications ofcontractingcompanies have
to integrate compensation agreements. Finally, Order no. 518/MINEF/CAB o f 21 December 2001 on the
pre-emptive (first-users) right in the non permanent forestry domain fixes allocation modalities giving
priority to local village communities, o f any forest that can be reserved as a community forest.
FESP, in the fi-amework o f its component on the management o f production forests, will ensure the
execution o f these procedures through the support o f the holding o f inter-ministerial departmental
commissions in charge o f zoning and classification, and will ensure the smooth functioning o f already
existing compensation mechanisms through institutional support for all the follow up and supervision
activities.
Inpractice, itturns outthat:

     0    The recognition of user rights i s still little participatory and very normative.
     0    The extension of community managed zones is still determined by those o f UFA, AP and ZIC
          and village territory and corridor zones are restrictedto left-over territories.
     0    The transition from vast multi-usage village territories to specialized areas requires unrealistic
          behavior changes that are beyond the adaptive capacities o f effected populations.
     0    The classification process entails many difficulties related to its complexity and heaviness,
     0    The classification procedures of Permanent Forest Domain are more rapid than those inthe non-
          permanent forest domain and these results in contentious relations and the potential for conflict.
     0    Incomes that inprinciple come from the exploitation o f the conceded zones are rarely assigned to
          the communities owing to their incapacity to present acceptable projects.
The specialization o f areas i s inescapable due to population growth, to the growing scarcity o f some
resources and to the appearance of new forms o f forestry exploitation and agro-industry.
The Master-Plan for Access to Resources lays out four mitigation measures to assure that the division of
areas i s undertaken ina way that concerned stakeholders do not feel excluded:
     1. A broad landscape approach that goes beyond the physical boundaries and needs o f forest and
          wildlife conservation.
     2. A supplementary phase o f participatory consultation and validation at the inter-sector, inter-
          ministerial levels under the form o f a regional and /or divisional workshop.

                                                           89

     3.  Duringthese workshops, FESP support activities shouldbe coordinated with projects and support
         activities to development in other sectors like agriculture, animal breeding, and in particular the
         PNDP.
    4. Inan ideal planning, classification (and the activities that result from it) should have only taken
         place subject to the use o f these support activities.

Local Consultations
The impact study was subject to local consultations throughout its process. About ten consultations were
held with local populations in six provinces: East, South West, South, North, Littoral, and Center. Two
national workshops were organized and four joint multi-donor missions with the participation o f NGOs
were undertaken. The provisional report i s moreover publishedand can be accessed inthe provincial head
quarters.
A consultation o f the populations will have to be organized after the publication o f the first version of
EIE. When it will be finalized it will be made available in the different accessible public places (BM
documentation centers, MINFOF, MINEP, local NGO headquarters, provincial delegations o f MINEP).
Finally, a regular program of consultation o f local populations on the social and environmental impacts o f
FESP i s being elaborated by GoC with the support o f CIFOR. Annex 6 o f the study report summarizes
this public consultationeffort duringand after the study.

Conclusions
The forest and environment sector policy that Cameroon has had inplace since the early 1990srepresent
important improvements with respect to the earlier situation and has demonstrated concrete positive
effects. However, it i s still struggling to be put in place due to the persistent weakness institutional
capacities o f national institutions to implement it. The study shows that most o f the negative impacts
identified today in the sector follow not from the forestry policy itself, but from its non-applicationdue to
weak institutional capacity.
FESP aims at reducing the gap between the policy framework and the execution capacity o f national
institutions, to restore the capacity o f MINEF's successor Environment and Forest Ministries to execute,
follow up and supervise. Inthis way, the program - if it attains its objective - will have largely positive
impacts both at the social and environmental levels.
All the same, the study has brought out some environmental and social risks that will accompany the
implementation o f this sector policy. The main ones are:

     0   At the environmental level: (i) risk of increased poaching activities following the opening up
                                           the
         o f hitherto inaccessible land areas; (ii) risk o f overexploitation o f agricultural and pastoral
                                                     the
         territories and other resources (firewood, water, PFNL, etc.), essentially in the northern regions,
         through the reduction of the surface areas resulting from the specialization o f areas, to zoning and
         to different classifications (FCt, FC, ZIC, ZICGC, inthe northernregions there will be no UFA).
     0   At the social level: (i)the risk o f reducing access to resources through narrow and excessively
         strict land use directives in forests and to protected areas; (ii) the risk o f conflicts between the
         concessionaires and the administration on one hand, and some social groups on the other hand if
         development outlines such as community forests or the distribution o f forest revenue does not
         take place; (iii)marginalization o f the indigenous Pygmies, the present compensation measures
         are not adapted to their cultural specificities.
Otherwise, it should be noted that extra-sector risks also weigh on the social and environmental
performance o f the FESP, such as the country's population growth rate combined with extensive
agricultural production systems, or the malfunctioning o f the judicial system. The Program should
therefore develop links with other policies and programs outside the forestry sector, and operate in the
larger context o f global rural development strategy, the development o f a state o f law, poverty reduction,
and private sector development.


                                                       90

The following plans are put inplace to accompany the execution o f the program:

    0   A Master-Plan of Access to Resources is already largely operational to reduce the risk o f lost of
        access to resources. It especially includes obligatory procedures o f public consultation and the
        maintenance o f users' rights in all circumstances.
    0   A Development Plan of Pygmies has been prepared to ensure that Pygmiescan fully draw on the
        opportunities offered by community forests, share charges, employment opportunities and to
        guarantee the quality o f their mode o f life.
    0   The MINEP i s a Government permanent institution. One o f its specific mandates i s to monitor
        environmental impacts and follow up implementation o f mitigation measures. The MINEP will
        be strengthened within the framework o f FESP in order to develop the capacity o f environmental
        monitoring and verification.

The study shows that subject to the use o f the three plans, the programproposed i s in conformity with the
applicable safeguard policies o f the World Bank: OP/BP 4.01, OP/BP 4.04,0P/BP 4.20, OP/BP 4.30, and
OP/BP 4.36.
Recommendations formulated to optimize the impacts o f the program are meant to be taken into
consideration not only in the National Program prepared by the Government, but also in the national and
international partner operations that will support this program.




                                                      91

                2. SUMMARY OF INDIGENOUSPEOPLESDEVELOPMENTPLAN

The Forest and Environment Sector Program (FESP) constitutes an important element o f the GoC's
strategy for poverty reduction. The FESP aims at sustainably managing natural resources to improve the
living condition o f the people and conserve biodiversity.
The FESP consists o f five components:

     0    Environmentalmanagement o f forestry activities
     0   Management o f the production forests and the valorization o f forestry products
     0   Biodiversity conservation and valorization o f wildlife products
     0   Community based management o f forest and wildlife resources
     0   Reinforcement o f institutions, training and research

Given that Bank support to the national FESP will be in the form of a DPL (OP 8.60 applies to the
operation) and that this support will not include specific investments, no safeguard policies are triggered,
Nevertheless, as part o f due diligence, the preparation team also reviewedthe Government Program inthe
light o f Bank safeguards on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).
According to the Operational Directive 4.20 `special action is required, where Bank investments affect
indigenouspeoples, tribes, ethnic minorities, or other groups whose social and economic status restricts
their capacity to assert their interests and rights in land and other productive resources.' Following the
OD 4.20, the main objective o f this Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) i s to assure that the
FESP will respect the dignity, rights and culture o f the indigenous Baka, Kola and Aka Pygmies in
Cameroon and enable situations inwhich `mechanisms [are] devised and maintainedfor participation by
indigenous people in decision making throughout project planning, implementation, and evaluation',
and to strengthen the institutions through which they can participate in their country's development. OD
4.20 recognizes that measures additional to those which are in place for the majority of
the populationmight have to be implemented to enable indigenous peoples to benefit from the Program.
This report shows how these goals can be achieved.

Legally, the 30,000 individuals gathered in or around 300 settlement in 33 councils who comprise
Cameroon's indigenous peoples, are citizens with equal rights to all other citizens inthe country. Yet they
lack the de facto political influence, legal status, organizational, technical or economic capacity enjoyed
by other groups.
The Baka, Kola and Aka peoples, who formerly ranged over broad areas o f uninterrupted forest as full-
time hunters and foragers, have increasingly been constricted to principally agricultural `home bases'
and outlying areas where some huntingand gathering i s still practiced, though with different technology
from the traditional net hunting. A traditional relationship o f interdependence with village
agriculturalists-with   Baka, Kola and Aka supplying village labor during the hunting off-season, and
villagers relying on pygmy production o f meat and forest products from the wild-has        given way to a
state o f increased dependence on villagers for cash income, work, and a few government-derived social
services. Forest related interventions such as logging and biodiversity conservation have added to the
marginalization, sedentarisation and impoverishment o f the Baka, Aka and Kola, who are exceptionally
dependent on forests   - huntingand gathering generates more than 65 percent o f their average livelihood.
Such interventions have generally deprived them o f traditional forest utilization rights with little or no
compensation.
Has the increased dependence on farming, sedentary life for much o f the year, and the desire to access
social services transformed indigenous communities into simple citizens o f Cameroon like others - a few
ethnic groups among many others? Decidedly not. Not a single Baka, Kola or Aka i s employed by
Cameroon's civil service or i s a member of one o f the country's 339 councils. Prior to the implementation
of an IPDP in the Campo-Ma'an region, only one o f Cameroon's 13,000 villages had an indigenous
leader, Even within the subdivisions, where IP form from 30 to 50 percent o f the population, no leaders
                                                      92

are themselves Baka, Kola or Aka. Few possess identity cards enabling them to participate as citizens
owing to the prohibitive US$ 25 cost o f obtaining one. Nor do they have birth certificates, which are
required for voter registration. Rough estimates o f cash income indicate that IP households typically
earn about one third o f the average income of rural households in Cameroon. They have no way to
acquire rights to `community forests', `communal hunting zones' or to defend their possession o f the
remnants of their `homelands' from outside interests. Fundamentally, their settlements are not recognized
`communities,' and therefore they cannot interact legally with government services. While they are the
most forest-dependent in Cameroon, they have no legally sanctioned access to the forests that provide
more than two-thirds o f their subsistence and income.
The FESP proposes mechanisms to improve the living conditions o f local communities through the
sustainable management o f forest ecosystems, but in the present circumstance, IP communities are
unlikely to be able to--or be enabled to-participate        in or benefit from the Program without special
provisions on their behalf. FESP implementation moreover entails serious risks for the indigenous Baka,
Kola, and Aka Pygmies which likewise require special measures to mitigate:

    0   loss of control over land traditionally utilized by them as source o f livelihoods
    0   loss of cultural and social identities, which are likewise associated to those lands
    0   increased marginalization
    0   increased dependence on other groups
    0   disintegrate for the decentralized systemo f administration
    0   reduced assistance from government services
    0   reduced capacity to defend their legalrights
The Government approved the 16 activities prescribed by the IPDP which are outlined below, eight of
which were already approved by the PNDP. These activities are designed both to increase the benefits and
positive impacts o f the FESP, and to mitigate the potential risks listed above. By mutual understanding,
only the full implementation o f an IPDP and all its components fulfils the requirements o f the OD 4.20,
guarantees that the FESP respects the rights, dignity and culture o f the indigenous people, offers them
equal or better opportunities to participate in the benefits and achieves the development objective o f the
FESP and `assures that the living conditions o f the rural population are sustainably improved through the
sustainable management o f forest ecosystems'. Some o f the recommended activities o f the IPDP o f the
FESP were already adapted as Government policy and are marked initalic (PNDP 2003):

Establish equal legal opportunities

    0   Establishthe necessary capacities to implement an IPDP following the OD 4.20
    0   Establishequal legal conditions for all indigenous people (ID-cards)
Establish equal legal conditions for all settlements of indigenous people (village)

    0   Establishcommunity forests andor communal huntingzones for all IP communities
    0   Establishnew forestry regulations, which legalize the IP to utilize their land
    0   Establisha national policy on indigenous people.
Establish equal technical opportunities

    0   Provide the IPwith technical capacities to participate actively innatural resource management.

    0   Provide the relevant GoC staff and other stakeholders with technical capacities to cooperate
        successfully with the IP.

    0   Promote researchon the IP and provide space for information on the IP.




                                                      93

Establish equalfinancial opportunities

    0   Adjust the distribution patterns of the forestry revenue to provide the IPwith the necessary funds
        to participate activities and decision making processes.

Establish equal organizational opportunities

    0   Facilitate the representation o f IPin all forest related decision making bodies.
    0   Facilitate priority access for IPto forest relatedjob opportunities.
    0   Establish a participatorymonitoring and evaluation system for the IPDP.

Equal cultural opportunities

    0   Sensitize the Baka, Kola and Aka on the risks o f the development process.
    0   Assist in capacity building among IP associations to preserve traditional knowledge, culture and
        livelihoodpatterns.
     0  Foster the creation o f forums for communication and exchange between IPSand other ethnical
        groups and accompany this process o f mutual understanding.
The main actors of this IPDP are the MINEP-ledFESP, the sub-department of marginalized populationin
MINAS, MINAT, MINEPAT,NGOs working on indigenous peoples issues in Cameroon, associations of
the indigenous people, and the Baka, Kola and Aka themselves. At the present level none o f the primary
stakeholders i s able to implement an IPDP without further training and the assistance on an international
technical advisory body, but all stakeholders are willing to act in accordance with the OD 4.20. To
increase the synergy of the IPDPs of sector programs within the FESP and PNDP poverty reduction
strategy, the IPDPs will be implemented jointly by independent steering committees at national,
provincial and council level assembling all stakeholders. The establishment o f these implementation
structures will take time and will develop along with mutual discussions on the IPDP. During this pilot
phase (1/2004   - 12/2004) an ad-hoc IPDP committee will start operations. The main focus will be on the
establishment o f the institutional framework, the sensitization o f all stakeholders in general and the
affected population in particular, the gathering o f baseline data, and the establishment o f community
forests and communal huntingzones for all IP settlements.
It is assumed that the 16 activities of the FESP IPDP, with a financial volume of US$2 million-which
amounts to less than one percent of the total FESP budget-are             able to guarantee that the FESP i s
executed inaccordance with the OD 4.20 and that the FESP:

     0   strengthens traditional systems of governance and embraces the notion o f community dialogue
         and traditional chiefdoms for all ethnic groups;
     0  reduces poverty for all ethnic groups and lowers the degradation o f naturalresources;
     0   installs an effective management system of the natural habitats, which offers positive impacts to
        the entire populationand the biodiversity (pro poor conservation);
     0  respects the dignity, rightsand culture o fthe Baka, Kola and Aka;
     0   assures that the IPreceive an equal or higher benefit from the FESP than other ethnic groups; and
     0   assists the IP to increase their legal, political, societal, economical, cultural and psychological
         situations.




                                                       94

        3. SUMMARY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALMANAGEMENT PLAN

An FESP social and environmental impact assessment was conducted by MINEPMINFOF with the
support of a multidisciplinary team o f national and international consultants. The study was motivated by
the dual need to maximize the programme's social and environmental impacts during its implementation
phase and to compare the programme's general consistency with World Bank social and environmental
policies.
Inkeeping with its duties, the Ministryof the Environment and Protection ofNature shall be responsible
for monitoring the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), including the preparation o f documents
required for implementing, monitoring and overseeing the execution o f mitigation measures.
The most important of such documents include regulatory instruments and specifications relating to the
implementation o f environmental impact assessments in the forest sector. The decree on impact
assessments whose approval features among actions to be implemented prior to grant allocation, shall
serve as basis for the drafting o f regulatory instruments and specifications on environmental measures
applicable in forest zones.
Within the context o f FESP, MINEP shall be equipped to perform its duties o f regulating and overseeing
environmental standards. With the support of a specialized institution, MINEP shall prepare a manual or
other such document to ensure verification o f compliance with environmental standards laid down in the
implementing decree o f the environmental law (Law No. 96/12 o f 5 August 1996). Such manual shall be
used during the training o f MINEP personnel, including managerial staff transferred to provinces and
responsible for implementingthe laws and regulations. The training sessions shall be extended to senior
executives o f the Department o f Forestry, the Department o f forests and protected areas (DFAP) and to
senior officials o f provinces responsible for supervisingMINFOF activities.
Each year, inthe month o f September, MINEP shall draw up an Annual Work Plan (AWP) containing the
activities o f the EMP, especially (1) a MINEP job description in relation to the EMP, (ii)    a list o f the
human and material resources to be used, (iii)environmental management promotion and protection
activities, and (iv) a budget covering all MINEP operating and investment expenses. The AWP shall be
accompanied by the progress report o f the previous year.
There shall be prior deployment o f staff and acquisition o f essential equipment needed for FESP
monitoring before the start o f financial contributions from development partners.
Under the FEDPG the Government committed to fully implement and finance this EMP whose cost i s
estimated at US$2.94 million.
Content of the EnvironmentalManagementPlan
The EMP concerns measures that can detect, prevent or offset possible negative impacts. Given that
certain environment-friendly measures had already been integrated in FESP-supported programmes, the
EMP shall above all concern specific institutional capacity-building activities, as well as follow-up and
external assessment activities that could not be part o f the programme's major components. Also, given
the sector-based nature of FESP, it will be mandatory for each major and selective investment financed
within the context of, and outside the programme, to be subjected to specific analyses and impact
mitigation measures, as required by Cameroon environmental laws.
There are basically two types o f EMPmeasures: a) cross-cutting institutional enhancement measures; and
b) component-basedfollow-up and possible impact mitigation measures.
Cross-cutting institutional enhancement measures. They are supposed to enable national institutions to
identify and handle environmental issues within the framework o f their traditional functions. The aim
here i s to increase the response capacity of MINEP and MINFOF services to the constant production and
adaptation needs o f the environmental normative, monitoring, oversight and protection framework. Such
measures come to complement and lay focus on capacity-building activities already plannedby FESP, by
making such activities urgent and o f top priority. They, for instance, will make it possible to strengthen

                                                      95

MINEP as soon as FESP i s launched, and ensure that it accompanies the DFAP and Forestry Department
(MINFOF) in the assessment, implementation, and control o f the environmental impacts o f FESP
activities, as well as in the assessment, implementation and control of the necessary mitigation or
compensation measures.
Component-basedfollow-up and possible impact mitigation measures. They include measures that were
not already integrated in the programme. These are selected attendant measures o f certain components
and sub-components o f FESP.


The EMP adopted within the context of FESP features inthe table appended hereto.



                                                                                             YaoundC


                                                      Minister o f Environment and Protectiono f Nature




                                                96

       REPUBLIQUEDUCAMEROUN                              REPUBLICOF CAMEROON
            Paix- Travail- Patrie
                  -----------                               Peace- Work- Fatherland

MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT ET DE LA              MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND THE
       PROTECTION DE LA NATURE                           PROTECTION OF NATURE

         SECRETARIAT GENERAL
                  -----------                             SECRETARIATGENERAL
                                                                 ------------
  DIRECTIONDU DEVELOPPEMENTDESPOLITIQUES                    DIRECTORYF DEVELOPMENT OF
            ENVIRONNEMENTALES                                 ENMRONMENTALPOLICIES
                                                                   II




                          PLAN DE GESTIONDES IMPACTS
                           ENVIRONNEMENTAUX DUPSFE


                Introductionet responsabilitedans 1'exCcutiondu Plan.

            Une ktude des impacts sociaux et environnementaux du PSFE a CtC
      rCalisCe    par        le  MINEPMINFOF    avec    l'appui    d'une      equipe
      multidisciplinaire de consultants nationaux et internationaux. Elle a ete
      motivee par le double souci d'optimiser          les impacts sociaux et
      environnementaux du programme au cours de sa mise en oeuvre, et de
      verifier la conformite du programme par rapport aux politiques sociales et
      environnementales de la Banque Mondiale en vue de sa participation
      financi2re.

             En ligne avec son mandat, le Ministere de 1'Environnement et la
      Protection de la Nature aura la responsabilitk d'assurer le suivi du Plan de
      Gestion de I'Environnement (PGE), y compris la prkparation des documents
      requis pour la mise en aeuvre, le suivi, et le contr6le de l'execution des
      mesures d'attenuation.

             Parmi ces documents,        les plus importants sont les         textes
      reglementaires et les cahiers des charges relatifs a la mise en Oeuvre des
      etudes d'impact sur l'environnement dans le secteur for&. L e decret sur les
      etudes d'impact dont l'approbation figure parrni les actions prealables du
      Credit, servira de fondement pour la preparation des textes reglementaires et
      des cahiers des charges relatifs aux mesures environnementales applicables
      dans les zones forestieres (CCEnv).

       Dans le cadre du PSFE, le MlNEP sera Cquipe pour repondre A sa
mission de regulation et de contr6le des normes environnementales. Avec
I'appui d'une institution spkcialisee, le MINEPpreparera unmanuel ou autre
document     permettant     la    verification   du   respect     des   norrnes
environnementales telles que definies dans le ddcret d'application de la loi
sur l'environnement (Loi 96/12 du 5 aoot, 1996).Ce manuel sera utilisedans
le cadre de la formation de tout le personnel du MINEP, y compris les cadres
affect& dans les provinces auxquelles revient I'application des lois et
rkglements. Ces sessions de formation seront etendues aux cadres du
MINFOF en charge de la supervision des activites relevant de leur
competence.

       Chaque annee, au cours du mois de septembre, le MINEP preparera
son Plan de Travail Annuel (PTA) portant sur les activites du PGE,
notamment, (i)une description des tiiches du MINEP en relation avec le
PGE, (ii)une liste des ressources humaines et materielles iutiliser, (iii)des
activites de developpement et promotion de la gestion et de protection de
l'environnement, et (iv) un budget couvrant toutes les depenses de
fonctionnement et d'investissement du MINEP. Ce PTA sera accompagne
durapport d'activites de l'annee precedente.

       Une premikre affectation de personnel et l'acquisition d'equipements
essentiels au suivi du PSFE aura lieu avant le demarrage des contributions
financikres des partenaires au developpement.

       L e present PGE, dont le coat estime est de 2.940.000 Dollars EU, est
 entikrement finance dans le cadre des ressources nationales, du Credit IDA
 et du Don GEF mises en place dans le cadre du PSFE.

             Contenudu Plande Gestionde 1'Environnement.

        L e PGE porte sur des mesures capables de detecter, prevenir ou
 compenser des possibles impacts nkgatifs. Etant donne que certaines
 mesures environnementales ont deja Cte integrees dans les programmes
 appuyes par le PSFE, le PGE porte surtout sur des activites de renforcement
 institutionnel specifiques, ainsi que sur des activites de suivi et Bvaluation
 externe dont la nature est telle que celles-ci ne pouvaient pas faire partie des
 composantes principales du programme. D'autre part, &ant donne la
 vocation sectorielle du PSFE, il est inevitable que chaque investissement
 majeur et ponctuel finance dans le cadre et en dehors de ce programme fasse

                                             98-                                  A

l'objet d'etudes et de mesures d'attenuation d'impacts specifiques, tel que
requis par la reglementation environnementale Camerounaise.

       Les mesures du PGE sont principalement de deux types : a) Mesures
transversales de renforcement institutionnel ; et b) Mesures de suivi et
d'attknuation des impacts possibles par composante.

          Mesurestransversalesde renforcementinstitutionnel.

       Elles devraient permettre aux institutions nationales d'identifier et de
traiter les questions d'environnement dans le cadre de leurs fonctions
habituelles. I1 s'agit la d'accroitre la capacite de r6ponse du MINEP et des
services du M W O F aux besoins constants de production et d'adaptation
du cadre normatif, de surveillance,        de contr6le et de protection de
l'environnement. Ces mesures complktent et focalisent les activites de
renforcement dkja prevues par le PSFE en leur donnant un caractbe urgent
et prioritaire. Elles permettront, par exemple de renforcer le MINEP des le
lancement du PSFE et s'assurer qu'il accompagnera l e MINFOF dans
I'Cvaluation, la mise en Oeuvre et le contr6le des impacts environnementaux
des activites du PSFE ainsi que dans l'kvaluation,      la mise en Oeuvre et le
contr8le des mesures de r6duction ou de compensation nkcessaire.

Mesuresde suivi et d'attdnuationdes impactspossibles par composante.

       Elles couvrent des mesures quine sont pas deja integrees au
programme. I1 s'agit la des mesures ponctuelles d'accompagnement des
certaines composantes et sous-composantes du PSFE.

       Le PGE arrEt6 dans le cadre du PSFE est present6 dans le tableau
joint en annexe.

                                  Yaounde le    0 6 OCT 2005


                                  Le Ministre de L'Environnement et L a
                                  Protection de laNature

0
0

L

/
0
c

I L




I   ,*


2
L




                     00
                     0
                     3


-
     I    I    I




                    I


      ANNEX8: FINANCIALAND ECONOMICANALYSIS AND INCREMENTALCOST
                                                        ANALYSIS15

Introduction
Financial and economic and incremental costs analyses have been carried out for the Forest and
Environment Sectoral Programme (FESP) o f Cameroon. This summary document presents the results o f
both financial and economic analyses, a discussion o f these results, their implications for Programme
follow up and, additionally, the incremental cost analysis for the GEF funded aspects o f the overall
operation. Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was used to assess the FESP financial and economic
attractiveness even though improvements in natural resources management typically have long-term
benefits that, once discounted, have limited impact on the CBA.

Cost BenefitAnalysis
The costs o f FESP amount to about US$127 million, including $113 million o f investment costs and $14
million recurrent costs. Physical and price contingencies amount to $10 and 13 million respectively.
Foreign exchange content represents 11 percent o f total costs. FESP costs were divided according to
direct, indirect (costs o f support activities such as environmental monitoring and information, forest
zoning and control, elaboration o f a strategy, regulatory framework and fundingmechanism for protected
areas) and institutional strengthening (see table below). Indirect and institutional strengthening costs
represent more than 60 percent o f total FESP costs. For the purpose o f calculating specific component
rates of return, direct and indirect costs were allocated to productive components while institutional
strengthening costs were accounted for inthe overall assessment o f FESP.

Benefitsand Beneficiaries
The incremental benefits o f the operation were defined based on the following assumption. The
government will continue to require draft forest and protected area management plans. The institutional
strengthening measures proposed by the FESP aim at improving the performance o f the administrationin
terms o f establishing the regulatory framework and carrying out effective control. This improved
performance has been assumed to be a precondition for the implementation o f natural resources
management in forests and protected areas. On the one hand, this pre-condition would not be met through
initiatives other than the FESP despite the current government requirement. On the other hand, without
proper regulatory framework and control, the management plans o f the forest concessions, community
forests and protected areas, although already prepared, would not be implemented on the ground. This
assumption enables the FESP to claim the totality o f naturalresources management benefits.
The main quantifiable benefits include timber and fuelwood from commercial and community forests as
well as plantations, soil erosion prevention, carbon sink potential and the reduction in non-renewable
energy consumption and increased fiscal receipts (as a financial benefit to the government).


A number o f significant benefits were not quantified due to their nature or lack of data. These benefits
include:

     0   Immaterial benefits. The establishment o f a regulatory framework for sustainable management
         o f forests and protected areas will (i)make the implementation o f forest and protected area
         management possible (see par. below), (ii)             reduce risk by securing user rights and allowing for a
         reliable input supply to the forest and tourism Indus tries; (iii)           provide access to certification and
         international climate change funding mechanisms; (iv) significantly reduce distorting practices
         (such as illegal logging and poaching as well as forest and protected areas tax evasion) thus

~




15 Costa and benefits presented in this annex are based on values determined duringpreparationand assessed at program apprasal,
Differencesin global cost figures are due to cost adjustment and updatesmade durmgpreparatlonof the MediumTerm Expenditure
Frameworkand annualwork plans.


                                                               110

            encouraging a constructive behavior by all stakeholders in the forest and protected areas sub-
            sectors; and (v) improved confidence of international investors.
       0   Incentive for positive change. Forest management could trigger a more dynamic behavior by the
           private operators that could set in motion a process o f rationalization and technological change o f
           both logging and processing that would not take place without the management constraint. This
           process will be adopted by the more dynamic and responsive operators and will contribute to
            enhance the overall competitiveness o f the sector.
       0    Employment and income generation. Long term income and employment would be maintained
            inthe wood industrythrough the sustainable use ofthe resources. The rapid depletion ofvaluable
            species and the lack o f diversification associated with the present unsustainable use o f forests
            would lead to a dramatic reduction o f the industry turnover in the long run. Additional income
            and employment would also be generated in the tourism and handicraft industryto the benefit o f
            local populations through the creation o f a protected areas network.
       0   Non-timber benefits such as hunting and fishing, minor forest products, watershed protection
            (including soil erosion prevention, flood mitigation and water infiltration), recreation, option and
            existence values, from both forests and protected areas were not quantified due to the lack o f data.
            The sensitivity analysis has shown that accounting for non-timber benefits in commercial forest
            management can improve the economic viability o f the FESP. Similar benefits that exist for
            community forests, and protected areas were also not quantified; and
       0    Wood processing benefits were not quantifiedbecause specific activities were not yet identified.
            This has an impact on the economic viability, as the costs o f wood processing initiatives
            (elaboration o f a wood processing policy, support increased efficiency o f logging and wood
            processing and encourage the development o f secondary and tertiary transformation) were
            accounted for inthe analysis as part of the overall cost o f the FESP.
       0    Only part of the benefits from institutional strengthening and the establishment o f legal,
            regulatory and incentive frameworks were quantified under the form o f increased fiscal receipts,
            The significant positive impacts associated with the increased efficiency o f the public
            administration, the improved and less distorted working environment o f the forest sector and the
            enhancedrelationship between private and public operators could not be quantified,
These unaccounted benefits represent significant assets o f the FESP and if quantified and accounted for
will lead to a greater impact on the economic viability. Unaccounted benefits should thus be given
equivalent weight as quantified benefits in the evaluation o f the FESP economic performance and
consequently indecision making. They should also be part o f the rationale o f the FESP.
Based on previous considerations, the winners from the FESP include: (i)          logging and wood processing
f i r m s that would benefit from an extended time horizon on their forest title and timber supply and the
reduction o f the overall risk of the wood industry, an increased processing efficiency and improved
marketing o f secondary species encouraged by forest management, significant reduction o f illegal
activities that would provide level playing field conditions throughout the sector, access to forest product
certification, international funding mechanisms for climate change, and improved confidence of
international investors; (ii)   local communities taking a lead role incommunity forestry that would benefit
from increased revenues from community forests as well as increased employment following the
appropriation o f logging and processing activities (which i s presently carried out by private operators);
(iii)individualandcommunityinvestorsinplantations; (iv)producersandconsumers offuelwood; (v)
individuals or local communities managing hunting reserves; (vi) the government that would increase
fiscal revenues; (vii) communities living inside and around forest concessions that would enjoy a
sustainable supply of non-timber forest products; (viii) workers o f the timber, tourism and protected areas
industry that would either keep their jobs or find a new one; (ix) tourists would be able to visit better
equipped and biodiversity richer protected areas; and (x) the administration that would be able to work
better and more efficiently. Losers would be illegal logging firms and poachers and to some extent small
scale chainsawers practicing illegal logging.


                                                         111

                                                          RESULTS
FinancialAnalysis
Financial analyses were conducted for commercial logging in forest concessions and community forests,
plantations and fuelwood production in community forests. Returns to Government's increased efforts on
tax collection from forest and protected area were also assessed. Both direct and indirect stakeholders
(workers o f the timber, tourism and protected areas sectors who would gain from the implementation o f
FESP), were included inthe analysis.
The results o f the financial analysis are presented inthe table below.



  management                       Local communities  a
  Game hunting                     Local communities managing hunting           Yearly net benefit: 5- 10million FCFA
                                   reserves                                     Yearly net benefit: 10-20 million
                                   Private managers o f huntingreserves         FCFA
  Commercial community             Forest management entities;
  forest management                Local communities; and                       9.7% to 11%
                                   Private logging firms
  Fuelwood community forest        Forest management entities;                  Producer price: +18%
  management                       Traders; and                                 Net benefit: -10%
                                   Consumers                                    Consumer price: -3%
  Plantations                      Private and community investors              Without carbon        With carbon sink
                                                                                sink
        Eucalyptus                                                              25%                   31%
        Pine                                                                    9%                    21%
        Teak                                                                    10%                   18%

                                                                                On direct costs       On direct +
  Tax collection                   Government                                                         indirect costs
                                                                                37%                 II1%              1
      8  Thefinancial impact on local communities living inside and around commercial forest concessions was not assessed
         due to limited availability of data.
         Preliminary estimate of yearly financial benefit from community andprivately managed hunting reserves.
      0 Based on assumptions on changes in price elasticity. These estimates do not provide indications on the financial
         viability as they do not accountfor production costs.


The results indicate that:

    0    Implementing forest management in commercial forest concessions i s generally financially
         viable. The sensitivity analysis has shown that forest management i s highly sensitive to both
         timber processing efficiency and relative prices of secondary species. These two parameters are
         assumed to improve in the `with FESP scenario' following increased efforts on processing and
         marketing o f wood as a means to overcome the short term impact on timber harvest associated
         with forest management. Ifthese two parameters were not to show the anticipated improvements,
         forest management would not be financially                    viable. It should also be noted that forest
         management i s seen by private operators as a contract with the government for securing long term
         usufruct rights on the forest resource. Private operators are prepared to have their financial
         margins reduced in the short run and are ready to improve their long term processing and
         marketingperformance in order to overcome the financial impact o f forest management.




                                                              112

      e   Similarly, community forest management i s financially attractive for forest communities that
          gradually take over logging and processing from private operators (that presently work in
          partnership with local communities).
      e   Investment in plantations show positive returns especially when high yielding species are
          considered andor carbon sink benefits are accounted for.
      0   Game huntingrevenues seems to suggest that investment inthat activity would be attractive,
      e   Returnsto government efforts for improving tax collection are financially attractive.
The impact o f the FESP on government spending (incremental recurrent costs at FESP completion) i s
around US$3 million (representing 2% o f FESP total cost). Sixty five percent o f this additional
government spending (around US$2 million) i s represented by the recurrent costs o f the protected areas
system after program completion. Its funding can be ensured through either donor-funded mechanisms
(trust fund) or long-tern concessions o f protected areas to the private investors. These possibilitieswill be
explored duringprogram implementation.

EconomicAnalysis
The economic analysis has been carried out for each of the main productive components including
commercial logging in forest concessions and community forests, plantations and fuelwood production in
community forests as well as to assess the overall economic viability o f the FESP. The economic
attractiveness o f the Program was also tested against the change o f a number o f parameters including
processing efficiency, relative prices o f secondary species, forest non-timber benefits, and logging cost.16
The analysis suggests that the FESP is indeedeconomicallyviable, and more specifically:
    Commercial and community forest management show attractive economic returns;
    Plantations show attractive economic returns on direct costs (especially when carbon sink benefits are
    accounted for) and are viable on direct plus indirect costs ifcarbon sink benefits are accounted for;
    Fuelwood production shows positive economic returns only in the best case scenario. However,
    accounting for unquantified environmental benefits such as reduction o f GHG from reduced natural
    gas consumption, watershed protection and non-timber forest products from sustainably managed
    forests would improve the economic viability o f the sub-component;
    Economic viability of the FESP i s sensitive to indirect costs with the economic rate o f return (ERR)
    going from average returns of 18 to 13 percent when these costs are accounted for;
    Economic viability of the FESP i s positively influenced by returns from forest management (when
    excluding costs and benefits           of that sub-component from the overall economic analysis, the ERR falls
    to 8.7-10.7 percent);
    Improved processing efficiency and increased relative prices o f secondary species have a strong
    positive impact on the economic viability of the FESP. When both parameters are left unchanged as
    compared to the without FESP scenario, the ERR drops to 1-5%;
      Economic viability of the Program i s sensitive to non-timber forest benefits. When hypothetical non-
    timber benefits are included, the ERR improves from 11-16% to 13-18%; and
      Economic viability of the FESP i s sensitive to reductions in logging costs. ERR increases from 11-
    16% to 13-20% following a 10% reduction in logging costs.




16 Estimates from the international literature were used to test the changes in the economic viabiltty      of FESP. In general, these
potential benefits are quite large. In the case of commercial forestry, these potential benefits represent between 4 and 20 percent of
total benefits.


                                                                 113

The results are presented inthe table below.




               +lo%                                              11.5%to 16.4%
               +20%                                              12.1%to 17.2%
               +30%                                              12.9%to 18%
    Logging cost reduction(fixed and variable):
               -5%                                               12.2%to 17.6%
               -10%                                              13.8%to 20%

Conclusions and recommendations
The results o f the financial and economic analysis provide a strong basis for deciding to implement FESP.
Significant non-quantifiable benefits (as discussed under pare 8) were not accounted for in the economic
analysis, but are likely to have a significant impact on FESP's economic performance.
The FESP economic attractiveness could be further improved by (i)including measures allowing for a
reduction o f logging costs such as low impact logging and better use o f forest management plans for fixed
cost reduction; (ii)  reducing indirect costs o f FESP; and (iii)
                                                                quantifying and accounting for non-timber
and environmental benefits o f forest and protected areas management.
The main recommendations are:
        From an economic standpoint, FESP should be implemented based on the positive indication of
        the ERR (reflecting the quantified benefits) as well as on the set o f strong arguments associated
        with the above mentionednon-quantified benefits.
        Based on a potential constraint associated with the financial absorption capacity o f both the
        administrationand the forest industry,the indirect costs o fthe FESP should be reduced.
        Incentives to improve the short-term financial attractiveness o f commercial forest management
        should be envisaged. These incentive could be (i)   a reduction in the area stumpage fee following
        the certified implementation o f forest management plans; and (ii) establishment o f forest
                                                                                 the
        concessions larger than 200,000 ha (which i s presently the maximum allowed size per single
        operator) allowing for economies of scale for those operators that implement forest management.
        An institutional capacity for the evaluation o f the non-timber benefits associated with forest
        management should be established.



                                                     114

     0     The distribution and equity impact o f FESP on local communities in forests, industrial districts
           and protectedareas should be carefully monitored.




                                 EconomicViability of FEDPC                                                   SensitivityAnalysis




sc 1.1           sc 2.1               sc 2.2             Timber from       Overallrisk
Environmental    Forestzoning         Commercial         commercial&       reductionby
regulation&       (USS2.364           forest             community         securinguser rights
funding (US$     million)             management         forests as well   to forests &
1.054 million)                        (US$5.707          as plantations;   protectedareas;
sc 1.2           SC 2.5 Forest
                 control (US$3.106    million)           Fuelwood, Sod     Secure input supply
Environmental    million)             SC 2.3 Wood        erosion           inforest & tourism
Monitoring                            processing         prevention,       industry;
(uS$O.l14        sc 5.2               (us162.122         Carbonsink
                                                                           Access to
million)         Strengtheningof      milion)            potential from    certification&
SC 1.3           Ministryof Forest                       plantations, &
                 &Environment         SC 2.4 Non-                          international
Environmental                                            Reductionin
                 (uS$50.130           timber forest                        climate change
Information                           products           non-renewable
                                                                           funding
(uS61.642        million)
                                      CS61.187           energy
                                                                           mechanisms;           J Logging firms          J Commercial

mdlion)                                                  consumption
                                                                                                 J Local                     forest
                 sc 5.1            I
                                   i                                       Reductionof                                       management
                                                                           distortmgpractices      communities
sc 5.2           ANAFOR                                                                                                   J  Commercial
                                      SC 4.1                               like illegallogging  J Privateinvestors
                                                                                                                             community
Part of           (L'S$1.886                             Income from       & poaching,which        in plantations
                                                                                                                             forestry
Strengthenmg     mdlion)              Community          game preserve     will improve the      J Private&
of Ministryof                         forest             management        overallworliing         community              J  Fuelwood

Environment&                          management                           environmentin           investors in              community

Forests          SC 3.1               (US$3.416                            forests &protected      game hunting              forestry

(USF50.130       Protectedarea        million)                             areas;                  resen'es               J Plantations
million)          (PA) network        SC 4.2                               Improved              J Government             J Private&
sc 5.3           established          Plantations                          confidence of
                  (USSO.556                                                                                                  community game
Training&                             (USF9.292                            stakeholders &
                 million)                                                                                                    huntlng
Research                              million)                             international                                     management
(uss5.593        SC 3.2               sc 4.3                               investors;                                     J Tax collection
mdion)           PA resource          Fuelwood                             Hunting & fishing;
sc 5.4           hou4edge             production
                 (USS2.178                                                 Minor forest

FESAC                                 (USF6.960
                 million)                                                  products;

Management                            million)
                 sc 3.3                                                    K'atershed
(uS$4.311                                                                  protection
million)         Populationaccess
                 (US62.942            sc 3.4                               (including soil
                                                                           erosion prevention,
                 million)             Protectedarea                        flood mitigation, &
                 SC 3.6               management                           water infdtration);
                 Institutional        (US620.708
                                                                           Recreation;
                  frameurork          million)

                 (uSS1.427            sc 3.5                               Option &existence

                 mdlion)              Income                               values

                 SC 3.1               generation

                 Funding              from                                 Recreationincome
                 mechanisms           protected                            generated by
                 (uS$0..234           areas (US6                           tounsm activities
                 mdlion)              0.141 million)
                                                                           Option & existence
                 SC 3.8                                                    value of protected
                 Biodiversity                                              areas and related
                 strategy                                                  species
                 (US$O.llO
                 mdion)




                                                                     115

                                   GEF INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS
(i)Baseline Scenario
As the present operationrepresents the framework adopted by the international donor community for the
forest and environment sector development, the baseline description coincides with the description o f the
FESP. The operation seeks to improve the institutional and organization capacity o f MINEP and
MINFOF to implement new policies and regulations for forest, wildlife and protected area management
and timber industry development in partnership with communities and the private sector. The operation
will disburse in tranches on the basis o f agreed indicators and triggers. The operation will adopt a broad
sectoral lending approach, and as such, donor contributions to the operation are notional and will be
allocated through annual workplans based on the achievement o fprojectedtargets and triggers.
Overall the operation will focus upon the following policy areas or components: (1) Regulation and
environment infomation management; (2) ProductionForests management; (3) Protected area & wildlife
management; (4) Community forest resources management; and (5) Institutional strengthening, training &
research (see annex 2 on detailed project description).
The protected area and wildlife Management component aims at completing and sustainably managing a
network o f protected areas which will represent and conserve at least 90 percent o f Cameroon's
biodiversity covering x million ha. This will be done through zoning activities, environmental information
management, protected areas participatory community management, and changes inthe legal, institutional
and funding mechanisms upon which biodiversity conservation ultimately depends.
The operation will also establish connectivity with, and improving management of, biologically important
areas that are under production regimes such as production forest, community forests, and wildlife
management areas.

(ii)Costs

The total baseline cost o f the initial phase o f the FESP supported
through the present operation amounts to $115.4 million".                            This
represents both secured and planned funding for the FESP. A part o f the                        FundingSources     US%million
planned funding amounting to 29.73 million would be met at least in                             GoC                      21.0
part by contributions o f other Development Partners including ACDI,                            EU                        2.0
EU,WWF, WCS, DFID,FEDEC. This fundinggap will be partly offset                                  DFID                      15.0
by the GEF intervention. Total secured baseline costs for the FESP                              CIDA                      10.0
duringthe five-year programperiod are estimated at US$ 85.7 million in                          KfW                       6.8
current value and include several sources o f financing such IDA, DFID,                         IDA                       15.0
EU and the German and Canadian bilateral cooperation. All baseline                              WWF                       2.3

donor contributions will be allocated across the operation components
on an annual basis, corresponding to the achievement o f projected
outputs and triggers. As envisaged, EU and DFID funding will be
through budget support as i s proposed for IDA and GEF funding. The                             Fundinggap               29.1

Government o f Cameroon's contribution to protected areas & wildlife i s                        Total                   117.40
calculated by reallocatingwildlife taxes toward the sector.




17This was the base cost at the time of appraisal, and prior to GEF contribution.This cost differs from the programcost as shownin
the MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework due to costadjustments occurredin the process ofAnnual Work Planningprojections.




                                                                 116

GEFAlternative
By building upon this baseline, the proposed alternative will help the government of Cameroon
implement and further refine the sector policy and institutional reforms initiated under the Third
Structural Adjustment Credit, promote sustainable management o f natural resources, improve sector
efficiency, and enhance local and national revenue capture. The alternative operation will do so by
strengthening national institutions and civil society, and creating the conditions for local communities and
the private sector to invest in the management, conservation and development o f forests and natural
resources. Rather than pushing for new reforms, the proposed operation will allow Cameroon to stay on
the course ina reformprocess that i s already unfolding.
The GEF alternative will increase funds available for the implementation o f the various program
components and helping secure adequate attention and resources on behalf o f the conservation and
management o f globally significant biodiversity. It will do so inthe following ways:
        Fostering dialogue among right holders o f protected areas, community forests, production forests,
        rural lands and operator o f huntingzones. These actors would be approached by the operation as
        stakeholders o f integrated land management ecosystem units (called UTOs), where biodiversity
        concernwill be integrated into the overall UT0management plans.
        Deepening efforts to update strategies and regulations related to wildlife management, hunting,
        and collection o f revenues to encourage community-based management o f wildlife areas.
        Leveraging at least as much in-country resources as it disburses by improving wildlife tax
        collection (huntingconcession and trophy fees) and bringingmore transparency inthe mechanism
        whereby resources for the Special Wildlife Fund (French acronym FSF) are collected, spent, and
        usedto attract additionalresources.
        Putting measurable increases of protected area management effectiveness at the center o f the
        operation's disbursement mechanism.
        Ensuringthat protected area management initiatives reach a critical the volume so as to attract
        sufficient Government and Development Partners' support to cover all protected areas.
Inadditionto theWorld BanUGEFthe followingPartnershelp finance the GEFalternative:
        The French GEF (FFEM-US$1.1) and EU finance the management o f the Faro and Bouba Ndjida
        National Parks where the last huntingdogs and black rhino o fWest Africa remain.
        EU and USA, along with other Partners, finance conservation o f Dja, LobCkC, Boumba Bek &
        Nkiincontiguous biodiversity richareas extending inEquatorialGuinea, Gabon, CAR & Congo
        (fundingnot consideredinthe GEF baseline or as incremental finance).

System Boundary
The system boundary o f the GEF alternative is the same as the FESP baseline. Without GEF financing,
biodiversity improvement in selected sites would have to be more limited in quality and intensity. GEF
would complement existing financing to secure more sustainable conservation o f globally and nationally
significant habitats, species and genomes within eight under-funded UTOs, namely (1) Waza with Lac
Chad and Logone plains, (2) Korup, Takamanda and Rumpi Hills complex, (3) Bakossi & Mount Kupe
complex, (4) Campo Ma'an & Campo-Marine complex, (5) Mbam & Djerem, (6) Ndongoro mangroves,
(7) Boumba Bek/Nki complex et (8) BCnouC complex.
IncrementalCosts
The total cost o f the GEF alternative i s estimated at US$126.53 million. The baseline cost for the
operation i s US$ 115.40. Therefore the incremental cost for this operation i s estimated at $ 11.13 million.
Of this amount, US$lO.O million GEF assistance has been sought. The remaining incremental cost will
met by the FFEM(French GEF US$ 1.1) and other donors (US$0.3).


                                                     117

Benefits
Long term incremental benefits will include the creation o f an institutional framework that demonstrates
Cameroon's enhanced protected area management capabilities and attracts more and more sustainable
fundingfor the conservation o fthe nation's protected area network.
Shorter term incremental benefits will include the setting up o f conservation services and starting UT0
management routines in selected locations on the ground. Without GEF contribution, the Government
would be unable to use its own or borrowed funds for meeting all management requirements o f these
UTOs. Selected to be representative o f Cameroon's entire protected area network, the selected UTOs
(total area 1,859,300 ha) are among the most important in Cameroon. Inaddition, the GEF's contribution
will help create a new 176,000-ha protected area o f highly intact mangrove's forest in an area known to
have the highest level o f speciation in Cameroon.
The operation embodies a particularly important GEF strategic priority that i s the mainstreaming o f
biodiversity in production landscapes. In line with this strategic priority, the FEDPG will help connect
forests under different regimes and manage them according to an overall plan that takes biodiversity
considerations into account. It i s possible that without GEF support, the planned national forest zoning
exercise would focus primarily, if not exclusively, on direct production o f timber and NTFP, without
consideration for globally relevant values, and without functional links between production and
conservation forests.
By working directly with the Government the GEF will be able to leverage good policy decisions,
strengthen the capacity and influence the program of national institutions, which i s rarely the case for
conservation donors who bypass national institutions and work on NGO-executed area-based project, By
meeting the GEF's strategic priorities and targeting the framework for improved protected area
management as well as the capacity of the national institution and its staff, FESP embodies some o f the
most important lessons learnt through conservation programs duringthe past decades.




                                                     118

   ANNEX9: PROTECTEDAREA MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVENESS-BASELINE AND
                                             TARGET VALUES


1.      Progress inthe quality o f managementperformance will be measured ineachprotected area using
a parameter known as protected area management effectiveness or PAME. Scores will be assigned using
a "PAME Tracking Tool". The tool i s based on 30 indicators whose combined evaluation provides a
comprehensive assessment o f management effectiveness. The tracking tool was developed by the World
BanWWWF Alliance, consistent with the recommendations o f the World Commission on Protected Areas
Management Effectiveness (WPCA), and with GEF's M&E policies requiring to (i)                 measure results and
impacts (ii)provide a basis for decision making; iii)create sources o f accountability; and iv) establish
records and document lessons learned.

                               SummaryoftheWCPA PAMEEvaluationFramework

                           Explanation                              Criteria assessed

                Where are we now?                           Significance
                                                            Threats
    Context    Assessment of importance, threats and
               policyenvironment                      ----  Vulnerability                             Status
                                                            Nationalcontext
                                                            Partners

                Where do we want to be7                     Protectedarea legislationandpolicy
   Planning    Assessment of protected areadesign           Protectedarea systemdesign           Appropriateness
               andplanning                                  Reservedesign
                                                     ..     Managementplanning
                What do we need?
    Inputs     Assessment of resourcesneededto              Resourcingof agency                     Resources
               carryout management                          Resourcingof site

               How do we go about 1t7
   Processes   Assessment of the way inwhich                Suitabilityofmanagementprocesses      Efficiencyand
               managementis conducted                                                             appropriateness

                What were the results?

    outputs    Assessment of the implementationof.  I
                                                    I -     Results of managementactions
               managementprogramsand actions,         -     Services and products                 Effectiveness
               delivery ofproductsand services
                What did we achieve?                  -
   Outcomes    Assessment of the outcomes andthe            Impacts:effects of managementin      Effectivenessand
               extent to whichthey achieved                 relationto objectives                 appropriateness
               objectives


2.      Baseline PAME scores for all protected areas have been developed prior to the negotiations, and
tranche disbursements will be linked to achieving P A M E target scores that have been pre-agreed. These
are shown in the following pages. The review o f progress will be conducted in each protected area
conducted by the Government in collaborationwith at least one qualified internationaltechnical partner.




                                                          119

       - - -
   n     h       N    N    N
                   - -
r  n             N    N    N
-
r        c.  N   N    N    N



r  n     c    N  c    N    N
                       -
         c       n    N-   N



         c       n    N    e            -
c  n          N  n    c    N  N
                                   Nl   -
   n             n            N




           -                -
              c




              N                N
           -                -
           -  N             -  N    - I
              N                N         0



   n     n    N       N    N   N    N
       -- - --

     CI  -    N            N   N    N     C    N

-
r                      --- N   N     N




r                          N         N

-                                                 0
                                                  2
                  C   0              N    c    0

           - - - -
              C       0    c              c

              C       3    N              3


C    C   C        r   3        0     0         3


C      - -
         C            0              0    c    0


P        c            N              c;   c    N


r    n   c.       c   N    n         c

+
N I  N




               - I      ' I   = I
          N




- I  -         Nl      - 1    - I




          c




- I
                  I       I      I


                Expected PAME Progress in Focus UTOs


     70
     60
     50

 'AME40
     30                                                                             w Tranches 2

     20
     10
      0
        Ndongoro Bakossi  Bourba      Mbarn   Canpo       Korup    Benoue     Waza
                  Kupe   Bek&Nki     Qerem    Ma'an

                           Focus UTOs UT0temoins




                        Table 2. Baseline PAME scores for other Protected Areas


I                   Expected PAME Progress in other UTOs



     70-




 PAME
                                                                                    ~-
                                                                                    0 Tranches 3

                                                       ~




          Qa     -ooerce Mengam       Bouba    Faro       M,nt     Xi,mt.m-
                                       N.ida             Can-eroon

                                            UT0




                                                123

                    ANNEX10:MONITORINGEVALUATION      AND                     SYSTEM
Objectives and overall features of the system
1.       The FEDPG Monitoring and Evaluation system has been designed to: (i) accountability
                                                                                      foster
and transparency in the management process; (ii)provide the Government and donors common and
realistic reference and measurable parameters to measure progress; (iii)    record how program progress
milestones and conditions for tranche release are administered; (iv) engage stakeholders in information
sharing; (v) identify implementation problems and propose corrective measures; and (v) integrate
financial  planning and execution with physical and geographic information on work program
implementation, milestones and tranche release conditions.
2.       The starting point for the monitoring and evaluation system i s the policy matrix that details the
issues the operation intends to address, the outcomes expected, the milestones o f the Government
program, and the parameters chosen for tranche release. This matrix i s common to the Letter o f Sector
Development Policy and the present operation. Definitions, baselines, and values o f expected results were
worked out during program preparation to facilitate monitoring by the Government and other interested
parties. Particular emphasis was placed on indicators of results rather than process indicators. For each
condition and milestone featured in the matrix, the operation's M&E has developed appropriate outcome
or process indicators and verification instruments as appropriate.

3.       To ensure consistency between FEDPG performance and the overall forest and environment
sector performance, the monitoring system goes beyond measuring program specific indicators to also
include indicators that reflect overall economic, social and environmentalperformances. Progress in some
o f the sensitive areas such as preservation o f biodiversity and management o f national parks and
reduction of illegal logging will be measured through well defined protocols which leave minimumroom
for subjective interpretationand minimize risks o f conflict.

4.       Progress in protected area management will be scored according to a "tracking tool" developed
by the World BanWWWF Alliance, consistent with the recommendations o f the World Commission on
Protected Areas Management Effectiveness. Progress in the fight of illegal logging will be measured in
terms o f variations in the length of logging roads located within unallocated forest concessions and
national parks, observed in time series o f satellite images interpreted in collaboration between the
Government and the Global Forest Watch Program of the World Resources Institute. For both parameters,
baselines values, methods and sources to review time series o f relevant parameters are integrated into the
program's monitoring system.

5.       While various departments o f the Ministries o f Finance, Forests and Environment will be
involved in gathering and analyzing program relevant information, monitoring o f overall program
implementation will be centralized by the Cooperation Division o f the Ministry o f Forests. This division
will consolidate monitoring reports, maintain relations with national and international partners,
consolidate annual work programs, and monitor satisfaction o f tranche release conditions. The
Environmental Impact Assessment Monitoring Unit o f the Environment Ministry will monitor and report
on the implementation o f the environmentalmanagement plan. Ministryprovincial delegations will be the
focal points of the Monitoring Unit, and in that capacity they will be in charge o f collecting necessary
data at local levels; they will also be in charge o f disseminating reports at the provincial level. External
evaluations and audits o f accounts will be undertaken under the auspices o f the Ministry o f Finance and
Economy.

6.       While the M&E system i s fully integrated into the Cameroonian institutional environment,
monitoring indicators have been determined in ways that allow and encourage the involvement of third
independent parties in the follow up o f the operation. In addition to monitoring indicators, the M&E
system will undertake several thematic studies with a view o f deepening analyses and find solutions to

                                                     124

problems identified during program implementation. Given the program's relatively short duration and
the time lag necessary to adequately measure the operation's achievements against its development
objectives, no formal impact evaluation exercise will be attempted as part o f the present operation.

Actors: Managers and Users
7.       System managers consist of the different services o f the Cameroonian Government responsible
for the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation (IME) o f the Program. The principal managers are:
     .The respective General Secretaries o f the Ministries in charge o f Forests and Environment
      responsible for strategically coordinating program implementation by ensuring the simultaneous
      availability o f financial and material resources as well as the assignment o f qualified staff to
     .national and provincial levels. They will likewise research problems revealed in M&E, develop
      solutions, and discuss these with the Forest or Environment Minister.
      The Division de la Coopkrution et des Projets (DCP), linked to the General Secretary, will maintain
     .relations with national and international partners, coordinating implementation o f the FESP on a
      daily basis. It will also prepare annual work programs in accordance with the ongoing tranche.
      The Monitoring Unit, which i s likewise linked to General Secretary, will be in charge o f the FESP
      monitoring and evaluation system as it applies to centralized and decentralized services. In this
     .capacity it will collect data for the production o f reports and dashboards and disseminate
      monitoring products to all partners.
      The Direction des Affaires Gindrales (DAG) will ensure that the monitoring system i s up-to-date in
      terms o f financial and accounting information. The DAG will also ensure that an independent

     .auditing firm, internationally known for its auditing capacities i s recruited after an international
      biddingprocess.
      Provincial Delegations will be the focal points o f the Monitoring Unit and in that context, they will
     .be in charge o f collecting necessary data at local levels; they will also be in charge of diffusing
      reports on monitoring at the provincial level.
      All relevant Directorates of the MINFOF and MINEP (Direction des Forits, Direction de la
     .Transformation et de la Promotion, the Direction de la Faune et des Aires Protkgge`es, among
      others) -will be incharge o f the overall monitoring o f the component they are responsible for,
      The Environment Ministry will be in charge o f implementing and monitoring the national
      environmental policy, controlling the mitigation plan o f environmental impacts, and collecting data
      related to the mitigation plan.
8.       System users include the Ministries of Forests, Environment, Finance, and Planning, which rely
on the system's monitoring reports and dashboards to assess program implementation and, when
necessary, take measures to improve it. The Committee in charge o f implementing the resolutions o f the
1999 YaoundC Head of States Declaration on Forests, will serve as the steering committee o f the FESP,
meeting twice a year to assess Program implementation and propose recommendations to the Government
based on monitoringreports. Additional system users include:

The General Secretaries o f MINEP and MINFOF                Local and international NGOs,
Finance and Administration Directorate                      Private enterprises,
The Cooperation and Project Directorate                     Civil Society,
The Monitoring Unit o f the PlanningDirectorate             Donors
Provincial delegations
Data
9.       Baseline data have been collected for most parameters used inprogram monitoring. These will be
refined by the monitoring team as it i s inplace and used to measure progress.

                                                    125

10.     Data sources. The data sources (shown in monitoring tables below) will be where the data
verifying the status o f indicators will be found. The data source will be both institutions (public
administration, private enterprises, NGOs, ect.) and the system o f data collection set up by the national
monitoring & evaluation team. The same sources will be used routinely to avoid inconsistencies and
misinterpretations. However, it will possible to cross sources.

11.     Data collection. Primary and secondary data will be recorded according to specified format by
Monitoring Unit assisted by Provincial Delegations. Field missions will be organized in order to
collect/verify data.

12.     Frequency and schedule o f data collection. The timing o f data collection will be linked to that o f
monitoring system outputs: the monthly monitoring dashboard and the quarterly monitoring report. The
monitoring dashboard which will consist o f key indicators and main achievements described in a two
page document produced by the Monitoring Unit at the end o f each month, based on data collected at
least one week before. The quarterly monitoring report (no more than 15 pages) which will be a full
monitoring report assessing the progress made duringthe quarter will be producedby the Monitoring Unit
at the end o f each quarter. Consequently, the data collection will take place at least two weeks prior the
end o f each quarter.

Indicators
13.      Indicators linked to triggers for tranche release are presented by component intabular form at the
end of this annex. During the first months o f Program implementation however, a wider range o f
indicators will be defined to better cover all the activities of the FESP and give an in-depth view o f
changes inthe Forestry and Environment sector.

Documentation
14.      A M&E manual will summarize responsibilities, guidelines, procedures and format o f documents
that will be used for monitoring and evaluation.

15.      Annual Work Plans will be prepared by the Directorate o f Cooperation and Projects (DCP) and
will include all the activities to be implemented during the year in accordance with the ongoing tranche.
The AWP will be discussed and validated at the beginning o f each year by all the stakeholders involved in
the FESP duringa one day workshop.

16.      The Monthly Monitoring Dashboard (MMD) will be a two page document prepared by the
Monitoring Unit, summarizing the major steps accomplished by the FESP along with key indicators each
month.

17.      Quarterly Monitoring & Evaluation Reports will be comprehensive documents presenting the
achievements o f the operation over a given quarter. No more that 15-page long (including annexes) these
reports will be preparedby the MonitoringUnit.

Procedures
18.     The national monitoring and evaluation team will collect data from various sources including
from decentralized monitoring units. The national team will update the system, the MINFOFMINEP
website and will produce the MMD.The dashboard will be mailed to all stakeholders including donors.

19.     Each quarter, the regional monitoring and evaluation team will collect data from various sources
including regional monitoring teams. It will then update the system, the website, and produce the
quarterly monitoring report that will include summary tables for each activity as well as financial
information. The report will be sent to all stakeholders including donors.
                                                      126

20.      At the end o f each year, an annual report synthesizing the work done during the 12 past months
will be produced and sent to all stakeholders. The report will be assessed at the beginning o f each year
duringthe annual workshop.

Integration of Progress Monitoring with Financial Management
21.      The systems for financial management and progress monitoring will be interfaced to expenditures
with execution of activities and achievement of results. The codification system used by the financial
management system will be used by the monitoring system as well. Basically, the monitoring systemwill
cover all activities with a particular emphasis on expected results: Each expected result will be assigned
an indicator. The indicators could be weighted to better reflect the importance o f certain results over
others. The system will combine the indicators o f results that will be supposed to trigger the release of
tranches. This combination will be expressed inrate o f completion o f conditions related to tranche release
as well as milestones related to annual workplans. A rate o f completion o f 100% will be required for
tranche release conditions while 75 percent will be sufficient to determine whether or not the program i s
on track overall.

22.      The monitoring and evaluation system will be a computerized one. Computers and software
needed for the functioning o f system will be acquired at the beginning o f the Program through a national
bidding process. The software provider will ensure necessary training and maintenance after the
installation o f the system. Overall, the systemwill be organized ina modular approach as follows:

             Central module: compiles the values o f indicators, the deadlines and the financial information
             received from specific modules; prepares the periodic summary tables and responds to the
             requests from users.
             Module 1: monitoring o f the implementation o f activities; activities are broken down into
             tasks. The total o f tasks equals 100%.The implementation i s measured through the % o f tasks
             achieved. This module has a particular sub-module focused on the implementation o f
             institutionalreforms.
             Module 2: monitoring o f calendars; this module monitors timetable for each activity with a
             warning system for delays.
             Module 3: monitoring o f indicators; monitoring o f impacts and performance indicators with
             specific indicators for reforms activities.
             Module 4: monitoring o f budget vs. activities; this module i s a bridge between the financial
             system and the M&E system and allows the monitoring o f actual and planned ratios
             budget/activities.

23.      A GIS software will be linked to the monitoring system to obtain a synthetic view o fthe different
activities implemented within the country. The GIS will act as an interface and inthis capacity will act at
two levels: (i)  at the input level for inputs, it will allow the storage of indicator values; and (ii) the
                                                                                                      at
output level, it will allow the formulation of information requests concerning an activity inspatial terms
(and not by its name or code, as i s the case in standard data base interfaces), and the provision o fresults
inthe context o fa map.

24.      The products o f the system will be (i)   a monitoring dashboard with key indicators only (agreed by
actors), producedon a monthly basis, and (ii)      a full quarterly monitoring report. The illustrations that
follow give an overview o f the system organization.




                                                         127

30 0


>    Y




          0
          m
          3

0 10   j0

        I

-    II/N

     II           I
     iI           II

2   /O            //O      3




                                   hl
                                   M


                           E



                    aW

                    .-S




             _________A________

nt          -
      *I  II     i-
          I      I



3"

3             jo   lj
                         I




IIII
/IIII/
I
I       ._.

         2
     3    n

                   I
                   I
                   I
3    3    3   3    /O  0

      s
      '5
      s0

      c

      i0

       2
      I-



       8




50


5a
5
k

.-
3Yn


    h
     .-+-
     M


     3m0
      I



     +-
     Ee
     u

   v E
     VI
     .-*
     0C
     E4
     .-mu
     5
    G
     CL
     0
     .-75
     *x
     cs

                                          SELECTED OVERALL SECTORINDICATORS


                                               INDICATORS VERlPICATXONSOURCE                                                                                          TARGETVALUE
IInstitutional               Ratiobetween funds effectivelytransferredto the                      Public Treasury books             50%                              00
                             MINFOF/MINEP and funds budgeted(FT/FB)
                             Time elapsedbetween MINFOF andMINEP calls                            W/Govt joint missionfindings      IOdays                           0 days
                             for funds and transfer of FESP funds from
                             MINEFI to                                                            Public Treasurybooks
                             Timely availabilityof satisfactory hlINFOF audit                                                       LO days                          '0 days
                             reports
                             MINFOFprocurementtransactions onschedule                                                              loois!_____.
 Managementof                ________________________________________-----------------------------
                             Number of allocatedFMUs before2002 under                                                               66%
 forest, allocation of       approvedmanagementplans
 forest concessions          Number of companies engagedin forest                                 MINFOF reports / IO reports       4
 andillegallogging           certification processes                                              Reportsof the Codssion for
                             Yo of forest concessionsallocatedon a competitive                     the concessionAllocation
                             basis inthe presence of an independentobserver                                                         61% ??                           18% ??*!
                             Ratio betweenthe number of sanctions effectively
                             appliedand the number of decision of sanctions                       IndependentObserver reports /
                             with regardto illegalexploitation                                     SIGICOF                          37%20                            Itleast 90% (cases

                             Evolution of the roadnetworkwithin non                                                                                                  It court)

                             allocatedUFAs the NationalParksbetween2005                           WRI /GRV remotesensingdata

                             and 2008                                                              hiINFOF controlunitreports       357 h                            357 km

                             Percentageof forest titles visitedby ajoint                           and IOreports

                             mission MINFOFiIO each year                                                                            70%                              LOO%

                                                                                                  ________________________________________--~
                                                                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
 Status of                   Status of vegetationand forest cover inprotected                      Comparisonof time series of      2004 data
 Biodiversity                areas and forest concessions(UFAs)                                    satellite images interpretedby
                                                                                                   the WWGFW
                             Change inpresenceof illegal accessroads in
                             National Parks between2005 and 2008                                   WRI /GFW remote sensing data

                        Presence of endangered species, especiallyprimates                         Updatesof existing survey at
                        and elephants maintainedand measuredin selected                            CampoMa'an and surveys            2004 repor
                        area                                                                       being conducted in other areas                                    No significant
                                                                                                                                                                     negaitivechange or
                                                                                                   PAMEmeasured in field                                             positive change
                             Consistentpositivetrends shown in the protected                       surveysby environmental
                             area management effectivenessthrough the                              NGOs                              2004 scores
                             Tracking Tool.                                                                                                                          Significantpositive
                             Positivetrends shownin the fight of illegal trade                     Data on the Ledger of offenses                                    change
                             of endangeredspecies                                                  against wildlife and status of
                                                                                                   prosecution of cases. Surveys of  2005 Data
                                                                                                   markets.Detailedstudy to          by LAGA
                                                                                                   interpretdata                                                     Significant positive
                                                                                                                                                                     change




         19 Baselineby the Ministryand target value was futed in Instruction signed by the Minister of finance and Economy onJuly 13,
         2005 paragraph 13 p.2
         20 Global witness third report,  April 2005. page 29
         21 Source: Management plan notification signed by the Minister in charge o f forests and Wildlife and projection document on
         Titles allocation 2004, MINFOF
         22 WE3 Office records according to the Private sector presentation made onJune 15,2005 9TTF/IFIA/GFBC Forum
         23 Njoya Fochive et al draft report on status o f industry in 2004 (BNPP/W funding), April 2005



                                                                                        139

                                           INDICATORS                                                                          TARGET     VALUE .
                     P__YY.__.._.___._I.-.-.-...-___uy__y__y
Taxation and                                                                      Economic dashboard
redistribution of         Sustained contribution o f the forestry sector to non   Sovernment's decisions
revenues                  oil GDP
                          Total value of forest sector fiscal revenues            PSRF / DI                      USS76        JS$60 millionszs
                                                                                                                 millions
                          Forest sector fiscal data published annually            Annual report PSRF / DI                       report/ year


                          Recovery rate o f forest fees                           PSRF / DI                      -80%         it least 904'0
                          Delay in the allocation o f the RFA forest revenues     PSRF / Audit by an independent around 2      x s s than 1 month
                          to communes and local communities                       entity                         months

                          Percentage o f utilization o f forest revenues by local
                          communities according to a local development plan       Audit reports                               50%

                          Effective use of bank guarantees in case o f non
                          compliance
____________________-------                                                       PSRF / DI                      9

Wood Industries
                          A strategy on wood industries i s adopted               MINFOF-M I N D I C reports                  ies

                          Volume & value o f timber processed locally             MINFOF reports                 837,847 m 3
                                                                                                                 27pss   434
                                                                                                                 million)
                          Volume and value o f log exports
                                                                                  MINFOF/ Customs reports         157,183 m 3
                                                                                                                  28(USS 28
                                                                                                                  million)
                          Percentage o f wood processed locally with a
                          second/third transformation                                                             15%         40%



                          Formal employment in the wood processing                                                8,1OOz9      11,000

                          industry                                                National Statistics




        2.1GFW, Cameroon Report 2005.
        24 Goc/IMF macro economic projection(2001-2015)
        25 SourcePSRF and GOC/IMF macroeconomic projection2001-2015
        26 Source:Audit report on PSRF,June 2005- HTR (baselinevalue)
        27 Source:NjoyaFochivedraft report on BNPP/W!J fund, April 2005
        28 Idem
        29 Idem



                                                                            140

       ANNEX11:FORESTAND GREENENVIRONMENTSECTORMEDIUMTERM
                                    EXPENDITUREFRAMEWORK


MTEF Selected Outcomes
  Management of Production Forests
  3.5 million hectares ofproduction forests where implementation of approved management plan has been
  independently assessed on the ground

  Management of Protected Areas
  8 Selected Protected Areas, with a combined area exceeding 50%of Cameroon's overallprotected area
  network achieve significant progress in the score of management effectiveness

  Control of Illegal Logging
  Illegal Logging under control in all Gazetted Production Forests and Protected Areas:



             Forest and Green Environment sector medium term expenditure framework




                                                    I        I          I         I        I       II
  Domestic Sources of Finance                            18.51     19.54     20.72    18.39   18.94    96.18




                                                       141

                                                       MEDIUM-TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK
                                            FOREST AND (GREEN) ENVIRONMENT SECTOR PROGRAM (FESP)




    Environmental Monitoring
    COmmunication and Environmental Awareness
    MiNEP Capacity Building




    COmpletion of the country zoning pian                                       0.4    2.1    1.1    0.0    0.o     3.6
    Forest Management Pian                                                             1.8    1.6    1.5    1.6
    Wood Industry Development Planning                                                 0.4    0.2    0.4       I
    Valorization of Non-Timber Forest Product (NTFP)                                   0.3    0.2    0.1    0.3
                                                                                                            0.0     iil

    Biodiverdty Pannong and Zoning                                              0.7    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1      1.4
    Knowledge and inofrmation Management                                        0.7    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2      1.6
    Palticipatory protected areas &Community Wildlife areas Management          0.6    0.5    0.6    0.5    0.5     2.7
    Design and Implementation of PA Manangemetn Plans                           2.8    4.9    4.2    3.4    3.1     18.3
    Optimization of econmic Benefits of PA and hunting zones                    0.2    0.1    0.3    0.3    0.3      1.2
    Legal and institutional reformof PA and hunting zones management                          0.2    0.1    0.1      0.8
                                                                            ~   0.2    0.2
    Sustainable Financing of Wiidiife and PA                                    0.6    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0      0.9
   I\aiona Boaters', Sralea!aneAcion Pan .paale                                 1 0    1 1    1 2    1 3    1 3      5 9
 Community Forest Rerourc~sManapemant                                           5.1    6.2    6.S    4.1   4.6 I   26.4
   1Trans.ena 3 s l s 1                                                         0 .o   0 0    0 0    0 0    0 0      0 1
    Capacity Building for Community Forest and Natural Resource Managemen
    Reforestaton and Forest Regeneration




    Transition of ONADEF into ANAFOR                                            0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.o      0.4
    Strenghtening the Ministry                                                  12.7   13.5   13.2   11.8   7.9     59.1
    Rehabilitating Education and Research in Forestry and Environment sector    2.1     1.6    1.3   0.9    0.3      6.2
    Capacey Building and Decentralization                                       0.9    0.7    0.7    0.3    0.3      2.9




                                                                      FESP Financing




-+-   1.TOTAL EXPENDTTCIRES(EXCLUDINGSALARIES) -a&-- Domestic resources(exc1uding salaries)

      External resources                                                             RESIDUALGAP




                                                                             142

                          ANNEX12: FIDUCIARYRISKASSESSMENT3'

Summary assessment

1.       The public financial management systems o f Cameroon present significant fiduciary risks.
There i s political commitment to public finance reform and important progress has been made over
recent years in improving public financial management systems. In many cases new systems and
regulations have been designed, but these new systems are not yet fully operational. However,
concerns remain over some areas o f budgeting, expenditure controls and the lack o f a credible audit
institution. These impact risk at the national level, as well as at the forest and environment sector
level. Overall, the riskrating for this sector operation i s B to C, or medium to high with C reflecting
the risks at the national level and without the proposed budget support and B the risk at the sector
level with a positive direction o f change inthe majority o fbenchmarks.

Key FiduciaryRisks


2.       Recent reviews have highlighted concerns over the overall management of the State
finances. These concerns are echoed by the present Fiduciary RiskAssessment (FRA); inparticular:
         At the budget preparation stage: lack of effective parliamentary involvement, weak links
         between the annual budget process and the PRSP and medium term forecasts, extra-
     .   budgetary expenditures and failure to reflect debts between the State and state owned
         enterprises inthe budget.
         At the budget execution stage: delays in release o f budget allocations, in-year cuts,
         numerous weaknesses ininternal control (including use o f shortcut arrangements, confusion
     .   between the roles o f the authorising officers and accountants, poor control over staff costs,
         poor internal audit and poor control over arrears).
         At the accounting and auditing stage: the accounts are not comprehensive as debt is not
         recorded on balance sheets nor properly reconciled, the Audit Bench (Chambre de Compte)
         i s not yet operational and Parliament does not have the capacity to analyse the accounts
         presented.

3.       These risks will impact at the forestry sector level, although, in some cases the situation
     .
within the forestry sector is better than across government more generally. Significant issues
specific to the forestry sector are as follows:
         the transition in 2005 from a single ministry (MINEF) into two new ministries (MINFOF
         and MINEP), which will pose challenges interms of ensuring clear budget allocations that
         reflect the allocation o f functions and o f changes to organisational structures, staffing and
     .   management arrangements          31
         the introduction of a new computerised financial management system to the field level in
         2005.



30The FRA was undertaken in late 2004 and for the most part i s based on progress up to the end o f the year; but more
recent agreements over planned actions/ reforms to address identified problems have been reflected. The FRA will be
reviewedannually.
31Throughout this annex (and the following table) the two new Ministries are referred to by their old acronym MINEF
exceptwhere referringto issues relatedto the Ministerial split




                                                         143

        the continued operation o f two special funds held in a commercial bank (established in the
        1994 forest law). Expenditure through these funds amounted to 3.7% of total MINEF
        expenditure in 2004, but could potentially be higher. In 2005 additional controls were
        introduced which bringtheir administration in line with standard control practices for other
        government accounts. They should be covered by the regular internal audit from 2005 (this
        will be formally agreed and committed to during the negotiation o f the budget support by
        the World Bank to the FESP).
        the need for a suitable financial management system and audit arrangements to cover the
        forestry parastatal ANAFOR once it becomes operational later this year, and risks
        associated with the cost o f redundancies stemming from the re-organisation which resulted
        inANAFOR.

Statement onRiskof Corruption

4.      At the Countq level, corruption i s still common and the risk o f leakage o f funds from the
system i s be relatively high.The specific weaknesses in public financial management described in
this FRAilluminate the associated risks of corruptioninpublic financial administrationparticularly
inweak internal controls, procurement, lack of internal and external audit and effective institutions
o f accountability. The problems inpublic financial management and corruption feature prominently
in the PRSP and are also high on the agenda of the new Finance Minister.He appears convinced
that unless Cameroon can seriously redress the problems in P F M and reverse its public image on
corruption they will fail to attract the needed private investment in Cameroon. The PFM reforms
underway for the past few years are systematically addressingproblems of external audit (creating a
Audit Bench), internal audit and procurement reform. Recently, the main donors supporting these
processes (World Bank, IMF, EU, France, Canada) have agreed to develop a more harmonised
approach platform approach inPFMwhich has the strong support o f the Minister o f Finance.

5.      Very significant improvements have been noted since 1998 when Cameroon was at the
bottom o f the Transparency International index. Cameroon now ranks 129 out o f 146 countries in
the Transparency International index. In the more in-depth governance assessment o f World Bank
Governance and Corruption diagnostics (GRICS Indicators), Cameroon has improved its
performance on the "control o f corruption" from one o f the worst in 1998 (4.4, ie 96% countries
score better) to above the average for sub-Saharan Africa (25.1) in2004 (GRICS Indicators, 96-04).
However, as as poor working conditions and low civil service salaries prevail, tackling corruption
remains a serious challenge.

6.      The Government o f Cameroon (GoC) has had a National Governance Programme inplace
since 1999, but until recently there has been little evidence o f sanctions being brought against
perpetrators o f corruption. However, overhaul o f the programme has been made a condition o f the
new IMF Staff Monitored Programme and a HIPC trigger. The second phase o f the NGP has been
launched with support o f UNDP. The Government i s stressing that this programme work with
NEPAD and benefit from the Africa Peer Review Mechanism. It focuses, inparticular on reforms in
administration, justice, decentralisation, institution o f democratic governance, establishment of
Commission for Human Rights, reform o f the electoral system and the establishment o f the
Chambre de Comptes (Audit Bench).

7.      The Government has also committed to prepare legislation to enable the UN convention
against corruption to be implemented in 2005 and has signed up to adhere to the Extractive



                                                 144

Industries Transparency Initiative. The Government i s committed to publishing the results o f an
audit o f the Oil Industry (currently underway) and i s committed to publishing information on
government oil revenues as part o f the 2004 Account. The Minister o f Finance has established a
steering committee for development and implemetation o f an EITI Action Plan which i s strongly
supported by the World Bank and IMF. After the election in December 2004, the new Prime
Minister and Minister for Finance have signalled that the GoC i s committed to renewing efforts to
address corruption and inefficiency in government services.            Recently, the Prime Minister
established a high powered National Finance Investigation Agency whose purpose i s to combat
financial crime.

8.       At forest sector level, major progress has been made over the last 5 years in fighting
corruption. Many new systems and transparency measures have been introduced which serve to
limit common avenues of systemic Corruption, particularly in resource allocation processes and
regulatory functions. They have introduced a competitive and scheduled logging title allocation
system involving an independent observer on the Title Allocation Commission; introduced an
independent observer for field      level forest control activities and established satellite based
monitoring for tracking illegal activities inboth protected areas and more widely. A recent external
review o f the Independent Observer programme has concluded that there has been a marked
decrease in illegal activity on large concessions and decline in institutional corruption inregulatory
activities (CIFOR, 2005). The presence o f independent observers in the forest sector has inspired
their inclusion and presence in other sectors. The government also introduced a major overhaul o f
their revenue collection from forest operations establishing an extensive joint programme between
the Ministries o f Finance and Forests.

9.       The Forestry Revenue Enhanced Program (FREP) and the reform o f the forest tax system
has resulted in large increase in forest revenue: from 6.4 billion CFAF in 1997 (pre reform) to
CFAF 32.2 billion in 2002. In addition, the MINEFI introduced publicity measures for
disbursement o f forest revenue to local government in order to ensure that the funds be used for
local development. While all these measures have reduced opportunities for corruption and
introduced innovative systems for control, much remains to be done to address persistent corruption
and new forms o f illegal activity. Inparticular attention i s now turningto improving the prosecution
rate o f offenders and imposition o f meaningful sanctions (relative impunity i s a significant issue).
Independent Observer working with MINEF has developed a case tracking system to support
MINEF'spreparationfor prosecutions and to support independent monitoringo f forest crime.

10.      Strengthening the capacity o f the Units responsible for control operations and preparation
of cases for prosecution i s a key element o f the FESP. The Government has demonstrated
leadership in the sub-region in efforts to address forest governance problems: they have played an
active role in the Africa Law Enforcement and Governance Ministerial Conference (2003) and
follow up, and are among the first countries to express clear interest in entering a Voluntary
Partnership Agreement with the EU to ensure trade in legal timber and in improving forest
governance under the EUForest Law Enforcement Governance and Trade (FLEGT)initiative.

Existence of a Credible Programme of Reform

11,      Although there are major problems, the GoC, supported by the IMF, World Bank and other
donors, has launched reforms to address them, at the sector level and across Government. Since
February 2005, the GoC and donors working on PFM have begun to put in place a single dialogue
in an effort to become more harmonized, coherent and long term intheir approach to PFMreform.


                                                  145

All the on-going reform efforts are being linkedto a single `platform' and this is now the focus of
dialogue with the GoC. Previously the reforms were supported as elements o f different externally
supported programmes. Agreements already established to guide the reform processes are
monitored through various joint frameworks between Government and the World Bank /IMF: the
SAC 111, HIPC and IMF staff monitored program as well as the World Bank program o f support to
public financial management (PFM).

12.       This FRA has identified some specific problems, particularly with internal controls over
expenditure. These issues have also been identified in the joint GOC-donor PFM platform but
specific detailed reform measures and their prioritization and sequencing have yet to be agreed.32
That specific reforms in some areas are not yet agreed i s not an indication that the reform program
i s not credible, rather that the platform approach being discussed aims to prioritize reforms in the
first instance. The evident motivation o f the present government and harmonized approach being
taken by the donors involved i s a good indication o f sustainability.

13.       World BanWIMF assessments against the HIPC capacity benchmarks for tracking poverty
reduction spending show a significant level o f improvement from July 2001 (against 15
benchmarks: two A ratings, eight B ratings and five C ratings) to August 2004 (against 16
benchmarks: four A ratings, nine B ratings and three C ratings).

14.       At the forest and environment sector level although reforms have been on-going for several
years much remains to be done to put the policies and regulations into practice. The capacity o f
government and non-state actors to implement the reforms i s limited and relationships between
them i s at times confused or conflictive. There i s strong political support for them and they are high
profile,  as the GoC sees them as a pilot for this type o f support in other sectors. There i s thus
considerable incentive for MINEF, the MINEFI and other Ministries to ensure they succeed. In
       ..
addition to the measures referred to above in relation to corruption, major improvements achieved
so far have been:
          Budget forecasting i s consistent with the PRSP and annual work-plans built from field level
          needs;
          Expenditure tracking has been improved by improving budget nomenclature and
          computerising financial management and control systems. These systems will be extended
          to the provincial and district level in2005.
          Application o f the new procurement code and its associated regulations over the past year.

Short Term Safeguards

15.       The disbursement arrangements for FESP limit, to some degree, the level o f fiduciary risk
for externally financed budget support. The budget support will be disbursed in three tranches.
Disbursement will be dependent on the achievement o f key outcomes which underpin the success o f
FESP. This feature o f programme design should act as an incentive to achieve those reforms which
feature as key outcomes and should reduce overall exposure because later tranches will not be
disbursed without the agreed progress.

16.       As the Audit Bench is not yet operational an annual independent audit will be carried out
for the FESP. Arrangements have been agreed and are described in the Finance Ministers


32 Specific measuresare to be agreed during the next Joint World BanWIMF Mission later this year




                                                           146

instructions to the Budget Directorate for the FESP. There will also be trimestrial expenditure
reviews o f MINEF, involving the MINEFI, the Prime Minister office and donors. The Finance
Minister also makes provision for donors to serve as independent observers on the procurement
commissions.

17.      The Finance Ministers instructions indicate that externally financed budget support for
FESP will be earmarked in a special account at the national bank and will not be subject to the usual
10% witholding (as contingency). It i s likely that with the detailed FESP programme allocations
and the "tagging" o f external funding, FESP allocations will not be subjected to budgetary cuts or
virements. Although some weaknesses are recognised in internal controls that are not yet being
addressed by specific reform measures, safeguards to address them were not recommended. It i s
believed that the `tagging' o f external FESP support combined with improved financial
management and reporting within the MINEF and an external audit will protect against
inappropriate spending and virement.

18.      Finally, MINEF's capacity to use new financial, procurement and contracting systems
should be increased by the multi-donor basket fund which i s being established to provide technical
assistance in support o f FESP implementation.

Benefits


19.      Despite the risks highlighted above, the development benefits o f budget support are
expected to be significant. First, importance i s being vested in FESP by MINEFI, as a test for
introducing wider public finance management reforms. Thus, if successful, FESP may help pave
the way for wider reforms and more flexible ways for donors to provide support both to this sector
and more broadly. Second, budget support should enhance ownership o f the reform process by the
sector ministers and make them more accountable for results. There are shortcomings in the
services provided, but improved public finance management at the sector and national level should
improve staff management and increase accountability, creating the appropriate environment for the
actions envisaged in FESP. Third, targetted budget support should improve the regular process of
budget negotiation, allocation and execution between the MINEF and MINEFI. Management of
donor project funds has created a parallel administration, often with staff enjoying significant salary
and benefit enhancements. This i s not sustainable.     Budget support, with adequate safeguards,
provides a better alternative. The targeted budget support may also serve as a catalyst for other
donors switching from project to programme support through the state budget.

Description of the DetailedFiduciary RiskAssessment

20.      The detailed assessment of fiduciary risk is given inthe table below, which (i)  summarises
the situation and rates fiduciary   risk across government which will affect the sector; and then
(ii)summarises the situation and rates fiduciary risk withregard to practices and systems used inthe
forest and environment sector. The risk rating for FESP reflects the situation within the forest and
environment sector, which may be influenced to a significant degree by government-wide issues,
Some benchmarks relate to the situation across government, with no scope for variation inthe case
o f FESP. Insuch cases only one, overall assessment, i s given.

21.      Against each benchmark, risk i s rated as A (low risk), B (medium risk), or C (high risk),
L o w risk applies to a situation where systems are sound and there i s basic compliance. Mediumrisk



                                                 147

applies to a situation where there are some significant weaknesses in the systems andor significant
failings in compliance. Highrisk indicates a higher level o f system weaknesses and/or compliance
problems. The rating i s based on an assessment of the current level o f risk and does not take into
account improvements (such as new laws or new systems) which have yet to take effect (e.g. are
effectively still inthe process o f being implemented).

22.     The arrow accompanying the risk rating represents the trajectory o f change. This indicates
the expected progress going forward based on actual evidence o f progress. Cases where
improvements of the systems have begun, but are not yet complete are reflected in the use of the
                                    -
trajectory o f change arrows.


        T   Positive progress       N o change      Negative progress  1




                                                 148


5  t    5

B
W

t   t

t

5:



2
3


a
rr
0




t


t




F4

t




0
c1


4-

t




u

3


      0
5;    r-




U

                        ANNEX 13: FINANCIALTRANSFER MECHANISMS


The following text presents budget transfers and expenditures procedures used under the FEPDC. The
diagrams shown at the end o f the annex takes into account the following principles:


    0   The separation o f authorizing officers' (ordonnateur, i.e. Budget Directorate) and accountants'
        functions (Services o f the Treasury Directorate: Agent ComptabZe Central du Tresor (ACCT),
        Payeur Gdndral du Trdsor (PGT) and Tresorier-Payeur-Gdndral (TPG).

    0   The term `funds' i s exceedingly broad and somewhat imprecise, and should be differentiated
        between (i)  direct budget appropriations at the central level and crddits ddldgues at the local level,
        and (ii)  the treasury necessary to pay for the expenditures. The first i s carried out by the budget
        directorate, which authorizes the DGAs in line ministries at the central level, and local ministry
        representatives at the local level. The second i s carried out by ACCT, which among other
        responsibilities, i s in charge o f providing with treasury the various public accountant at the
        central level (PGT) as well as the local level (TPG), by transferring treasury to sub-accounts open
        in the provincial offices of the central bank. The term `fund' has thus been replaced either by
         `appropriation' or by `treasury.'

    0   Expenditures funded by internal resources will also been paid by the public accountants o f the
        Treasury directorate.
The procedures followed under the FEPDC will conform to those now being introduced as the norm for
all sectors. They can be described as follows:

    0   The budget directorate provides budget appropriations to DAG (central level) and crddits
        deZdgu6s to S A F (local level) within a two month period necessary to record data according to the
         finance law and to share appropriations between the various beneficiaries. The timeline requires
        the budget directorate to hastenthe process, which at present takes at least three months.

    0    On the basis o f its appropriations, the DAG and the SAFs commit expenditures. The
         commitments are monitored by the financial controller regarding the existence o f budget
         appropriations and the regularity o f expenditures (conformity to rules).

    0   After delivery o f goods or completion o f work, the budget directorate at the central level, and its
        representative at the local level, issue an order to pay. The order i s then sent it to the public
         accountant (PGT at the central level and TPG at the local level) who, after having applied the
        required controls, pays the expenditure to the supplier concerned.

    0    SAFs and TPGs send information and documentation o f their transactions and expenditures to the
         central level on a monthly basis - a current area o f weakness that will require progress.

     0  At the end of the fiscal year, the DAGshould issue an `administrative account' presenting details
         o f budget execution and the public accountants a `compte de gestion.' The transactions recorded
         inboth documents, containing inter alia the expenditures performed inthe framework of FESP,
         should be compared and adjusted. The compte de gestion should be presented to the Chambre des
         Comptes to examine. At the national level, the General Account o f the Finance Administration,
        which gathers information coming from DAG and from the public accountants, will serve as the
        basis for the budget review law.

    0   A posteriori audits should be conducted by the internal inspectors and the Chambre des Comptes.
        At present the Chambre is not yet operational and internal inspections do not function well. For
        this reason, quarterly expenditure reviews are strongly recommendedduring the interimuntilan


                                                     171

 this reason, quarterly expenditure reviews are strongly recommended duringthe interimuntil an
  effective a posteriori audit system i s in place, as a means o f informing donors o f any misuses o f
  funds which may take place.

0 Budget appropriations not used during a given fiscal year should be carried over to the following
  year, without being deducted from the budget o f the new fiscal year. Certain expenditures
  moreover are by nature multi-annual, and the new organic law annual finance laws will abide by
  will take this into account.




                                               172

                                                                   P R O C E D U R E F O R B U D G E T S U P P O R T
                                                                 Publicaccountants                    Authorizing officers




Internalresources


                                                                                                    Budget appropriations
                                                                                                   Identifiedand targeted
                                                                                                           PSFE




                                                     Treasury Directorate                        I      BUDGET
                                                                                                     DIRECTORATE



                                                                                    Budget sup
                                                                   ""I
.................................................................
j    Treasury calls and
i movements
,.............................................................   .......
                                                                      ; II\ --          procc




                       Note :
                       ACCT :Agent Comptable Central duTrCsor
                        PGT : Paierie GCnCrale duTrCsor (accountant at central level)
                       TPG :TrOsoreries Paieries GCnOrales (accountants at locallevel)
                        CAA : Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (accountant o f the debt)
                        DGA :Directeur GCnCralAdministratif (MINEFappropriations administrator at the central level)
                        S A F : Services Administratifs et Financiers (ICIINEFappropriations administrator at the local level)




                                                                                            173

                             ANNEX 14: STATUS OF BANK GROUPOPERATIONS
                                  I D A A N D I B R D A C T I V E P R O J E C T S

                                                     J A N U A R Y 3 0 ,   2 0 0 6



       Sumsgiven in US dollarsMzllion

   'roject ID      FY                   I'urpose                  IBRD                  Cancel          lJndisb. expect.& actualdisb.
                                                                                                                 Diff.between
                                                                                                                 Or;&         IFrmRevised




                   S T A T E M E N T O F I F C ' S H E L D A N D D I S B U R S E D
                                                        P O R T F O L I O
                                                     3 1 D E C E M B E R 2 0 0 5


.__________
Sumsgiven ifi                             ---__-_-__.
.M4?E!oval.-                              Loan
                                          __________.
2006                                      128
1995              AEF Comp. Avicole       0 32
2002              AEF FME-Gaz             0 00
2000              AEF Hobec               0 44                                               I0.26
2005              XEF NOSA I11            0 95                                               I0.95          I1
1996              AEF Notacam             0 82                                               I              I
1999              AEF Saicam              0 00                0.10                           1              I

2002              AEF UC-Pharm            0 00                         2.28                  I
2000              BICEC                   0 00                                               I              III

1991/95           CICAM                   0 00                2.27                           I
                                                                                                            ~




                                                                                                            ~

2000              COTCO                   60 92                                              I
                                                                                             I              I
                                                                               4 60.92                      II
                                                                                             ~

1998/2003         Pecten Cameroon         44.00
                                          __________.                          1 58.32          19.8
                  Total Portfolio         108.72     0.90     2.53     2.28
***                                    ~            ~        ~        ~        I 119.23 I 20.9
                                                                                -------- ---_.I_____________1i
                                                                                        ~
  Guarantee
   Particbation Loans booked bv IFC on behalf of other Institutions)




       1.____________________
         Total PendingCommitment:                     II       I        II        I               I




                                                                  174

                                 ANNEX 15: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE

Press Release No. 05/236                                                       International Monetary Fund

O c t o b e r 24,2005                                                          700 19th Street, NW
                                                                               Washington, D.C. 20431 USA

IMFExecutive BoardApproves US$26.8 MillionThree-Year Arrangementfor CameroonUnder the
Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility

The Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund(IMF) today approved a three-year arrangement
for Cameroonunder the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in an amount equivalent o f SDR
18.57 million (about US$26.8 million) to support the government's program o f economic reform and
poverty reduction. The first disbursement under the arrangement will amount to SDR 2.65 million (about
US$3.8 million).

The Executive Board also approved an additional amount equivalent to SDR 5.70 million (about US$8.2
million) in interimassistance from the IMF under the Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries (HIPC) Initiative
to be applied inthe remainder o f 2005 and through most o f 2006.'

The last PRGF arrangement with Cameroon was approved in December 2000 (See Press Release No.
OOi86) and expired in December 2004 after an extension o f one year. The authorities subsequently
requested a staff-moiiilored program (SMP) covering the first half o f 2005 to build a performance track
record. Performance under the SMP to date has beenbroadly satisfactory.

Following the Executive Board's discussion of the request by Cameroon, Ms. Anne 0. Krueger, First
Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chair, stated:

"The Cameroonian authorities made progress in improving economic policies in the first half o f 2005
under their 2005 staff-monitoredprogram (SMP). Implementation o f the program resulted in a substantial
fiscal     adjustment, especially in non-oil revenue, and improved public financial management and
reporting. Prudent policies have contributed to solid economic growth, low inflation, and a narrowing
external current account deficit.

"At the same time, the reform agenda remains unfinished.Progress in structural reforms will need to be
strengthened, particularly with respect to improving governance and the business climate, enterprise
restructuring, privatization, and fuel price adjustments. There i s also considerable room for further
improvements inthe structure o f spending, transparency o f government operations, budgeting, and budget
execution procedures.

"The government's new medium-term program seeks to consolidate fiscal performance and invigorate
structural reforms in order to build a sound basis for enhancing growth and reducing poverty. The reform
priorities include strengthening non-oil revenue, increasing public investment in infrastructure, enhancing
the transparency o f financial management, restructuring public enterprises, and removing obstacles to
private sector activity. Follow-up and monitoring o f the quality o f public spending-including    spending
of debt-relief resources-full      implementation o f the domestic debt repayment plan, and decisive
improvements in governance will be important in rebuilding confidence and strengthening private
investment. Also, the role o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper i s to be enhanced through more
explicit links inthe budget and better coordination o fpriorities with donors.

"Successful implementation o f the PRGF-supported program should enable Cameroon to meet the
completion point trigger on the continued maintenance o f macroeconomic stability. Cameroon has made
progress toward implementing other completion point triggers. The government i s committed to ensuring
                                                    175

that the resources releasedby debt relief, bothbefore and after the completion point, are used for poverty-
reducing and growth-enhancing expenditure. The mechanisms for appropriation, use, and monitoring o f
debt reliefwould needto be improvedincoordination with creditors and donors. The authorities will need
to continue on a sustained reform path and follow prudent borrowing policies, including beyond the
completion point," Ms. Krueger said.

RecentEconomicDevelopment

Cameroon's macroeconomic performance through 2004 was solid with real growth registering about 4
percent and inflationremaining low. However, public finances deteriorated, poverty remained widespread
and sustained economic growth was hindered by, among other obstacles, inadequate infrastructure, poor
governance, low investment, and limited financial intermediation. Inrecent years, the business climate
has also been adversely affected by the Treasury's accumulation o f domestic payment arrears and the slow
progress inrestructuring loss-making public enterprises.

The authorities adopted an ambitious economic program for 2005 to address the obstacles to growth and
to improve fiscal management, in line with the main recommendations o f the ex post assessment. They
asked the staff to monitor the program. Building on the broadly satisfactory implementation o f the staff
monitored program during the first half o f 2005, the authorities have adopted a medium-term economic
program to be supported by an arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, which i s
Cameroon's third successive PRGF arrangement.

ProgramSummary

The Government's medium-termprogram aims to enhance growth and reduce poverty consistent with
Cameroon's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper so as to make progress toward the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). It seeks to (i)      remove impedimentsto private sector activity, including by
accelerating the restructuring and privatization o f loss-makingpublic enterprises; (ii)   strengthenthe fiscal
position and increase investment in physical and human capital; and (iii)         safeguard longer-term fiscal
sustainability.

The program's key macroeconomic objectives are (i) GDP growth in the non-oil economy averaging
                                                         real
at least 4.4 percent a year during 2005-08; (ii)    inflation below 3 percent; and (iii) external current
                                                                                           an
account deficit (excluding official transfers) below 5 percent of GDP by 2008. Although oil production i s
expected to decline over the medium term, the authorities expect growth in the non-oil economy to
strengthen as the business climate improves.

The medium-term fiscal strategy seeks to ensure the availability o f resources to cover core expenditure
independent o f the level o f oil revenue (or debt relief). The fiscal strategy also aims to strengthen priority
spending while ensuring long-term debt and fiscal sustainability    .

The authorities will continue to improve public financial management and the effectiveness o f spending.
They will focus on improving expenditure quality, efficiency, and control; as well as absorptive capacity.

Through their program, the authorities are seeking to meet the conditions for the HIPC Completion Point
so as to achieve debt sustainability through debt relief. Overall the net present value o f public external
debt i s projected to decline to 153 percent o f exports (before completion point relief) at end-2005, and
further to 54 percent at end-2006 after Cameroon receives completion point relief. Cameroon would be
eligible for debt relief under the multilateral debt cancellation initiative when it reaches its HIPC
completion point.


                                                      176

The PRGF is the IMF's concessional facility for low-income countries. PRGF-supported programs are
based on country-owned poverty reduction strategies adopted in a participatory process involving civil
society and development partners and articulated inthe Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSPI). This i s
intended to ensure that PRGF-supported programs are consistent with a comprehensive framework for
macroeconomic, structural, and social policies to foster growth and reduce poverty. PRGF loans carry an
annual interest rate of 0.5 percent and are repayable over 10 years with a 5%-year grace period on
principal payments.

                     Table 1. Cameroon: Selected EconomicandFinancialIndicators, 2003-08
                                                             2003    2004              Projections
                                                              Est.   Est.      2005    2006       2007    2008
                                                               (Annual percentage changes; unless otherwise
                                                                               indicated)
  National income and prices
  GDP at constantprices                                         4.1      3.5       2.8    4.2       3.7    4.6
  Of which:non-oil GDP                                          4.9      4.7       3.7    4.1       4.7    5.1
  GDP deflator                                                  0.3      2.2       1.7    2.9       0.9     1.6
  Consumer prices                                               0.6      0.3       1.3    1.8       2.0    2.0
  Nominal GDP (in billions of CFA francs)                     7,917    8,377    8,757 9,395      9,826 10,447
  Oil output (inthousands of barrels aday)                        98      89       82      88       78      74


  External trade
  Export volume                                                  6.9      1.5     -5.3    6.2       1.3    3.2
  Of which:non-oil sector                                       12.3     5.9      -3.7    4.8       5.0     5.4
  Import volume                                                 -0.6     9.4       1.0    2.8       3.0     3.2
  Average oil export price (US.dollars per barrel)             27.3     34.9      45.3   48.0      43.3   42.0
  Real effective exchange rate                                   2.9     0.4        ...     ...      ...     ...
  Terms of trade                                                -0.8    -1.3       9.0    4.9     -11.1    -7.2


  Money and credit (end of period)
  Broad money (M2)                                              -0.9      7.3      4.7     9.0     10.9     9.0
  Velocity (GDP/averageM2)                                       5.8      5.8      5.9    6.2       5.8     5.7
  Discount rate (end of period; inpercent)                       6.0      6.0       ...     ...      ...

                                                              (InpercentofGDP, unless otherwise indicated)
  Gross national savings                                        15.4    16.2      17.4   19.6      17.9    16.7
  Gross domestic investment                                     17.5    19.2      19.8   20.7      21.2    21.6


  Central government operations
  Total revenue (excl. grants)                                  16.1    15.1      16.9   17.8      17.1    16.6
  Oil revenue                                                    4.1      3.9      4.5     5.5      4.4     3.7
  Non-oil revenue                                               12.0    11.2      12.4   12.3      12.6    12.8
  Non-oil revenue(inpercent of non-oil GDP)                     12.8    12.0      13.3   13.3      13.4    13.6
  Total expenditure                                             15.4    15.9      15.3   17.0      16.8    17.1
  Noninterest total expenditure *                               12.4    13.2      12.5   13.4      14.4    14.6
  Capital expenditure                                            1.9      1.8      2.4     3.7      3.8     4.3
  Overall fiscal balance (excl. net changes inarrears)
  Excluding grants                                               0.7     -0.8      1.6     0.7      0.2    -0.6
  Including grants                                               1.2     -0.7      2.0     1.2      0.3    -0.5
  Primary balance                                                3.4      1.9      3.9     3.4      2.3     1.7

                                                        177

Non-oil primary balance(in percent of non-oil GDP)                    -0.3     -1.5      0.8    0.6     -0.1     -0.3


Externalsector
Current accountbalance(includinggrants)                                -2.1    -3.0     -2.4   -1.2      -3.4    -4.8
NPV of external debt                                                  39.0     35.8    31.1    27.5     24.6     22.1
                                                                      (Inpercentof exports of goods and services)
Externaldebt service(before debt relief)                              26.0     23.0    20.2    17.1     15.2     13.6
Externaldebt service(after debt relief)                                 8.7     7.0      6.7    3.6       4.0     4.2


Sources Cameroonianauthorities,and staff estimatesandprojections
1/ Inpercent o f broadmoneyat the beginningof the period.
2/ Excluding foreign-financedinvestment, restructuringexpenditureand separationgrants
3/ Excludingrestructunngexpenditure
4/ Excluding external grants andprivatizationproceeds



lThe staff report on Cameroonis expectedto be made available.




                                                         178

                                ANNEX 16: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE


                                                                                     Sub-                                                                   I
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                Saharan         Low-
                                                                 Cameroon           Africa    income          Ievelopment diamond'

2004
Population, mid-year (millions)                                        16.4           719        2,338
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      800           600          510                          Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       13.1           432        1,184

Average annual growth, 199804
Population (%)                                                           2.1           2.2         1.8
Laborforce (%)                                                           2.5           1.o         2.1

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199804)
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)                        40
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                                  52             37          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          48             46          58
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                   95            101          79
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                               22                         44              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                      63             58          75                                                      I
Literacy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                         68             65          61
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                     108            95          94                   * M Y  * Cameroon
   Male                                                                  116           102         101                            Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                       ~

   Female                                                                99             88          88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1984        1994           2003        2004        Economicratios"
GDP (US$ billions)                                           7.8         7.9          12.5         14.7
Gross capital formation/GDP                                 25.9        15.3          17.0         17.6
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                            33.5        22.1          25.5         25.0                              Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                  28.4        17.9          17.1         17.5
Gross national savings/GDP                                  24.9        11.3          14.5         16.0                                  T

Current account balanceiGDP                                   1.8       -4.1           -2.5        -1.2                                            Capital
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                         2.2         2.0            1.4         1.7        savinqs                             fnrmntinn
Total debVGDP                                               37.2      104.9           75.5         63.7
Total debt service/exports                                  15.6        21.9          13.9         18.1                                  1
Presentvalue of debvGDP                                                               40.7
Presentvalue of debvexports                                                           157.4                                        Indebtedness
                                           1984-94      199404         2003           2004     200408
(average annual growth)                                                                                                  i w  I_* xiCameroon
GDP                                            -2.7          4.6         4.5            4.8         5.3
GDP per capita                                 -5.5          2.3         2.4            2.8         3.5                             Low-incomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                           IgB4'Igg4                              2004        /Growthof capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                    ^^
Agriculture                                                 238         396
Industry                                                    375         235           442
                                                                                       16 7
                                                             12 1        9 9            8 7        E
  Manufacturing                                                                                     7 9
Services                                                    388         369            39 1        40 5
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                       620         72 1           709         71 0
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                    9 6        100            12 0        11 5
Importsof goods and services                                31 0        195            254         250


(average annualgrowth)                                  1984-94     Igg4-O4           2003

AgricuIture                                                   0 3        6 5            6 8
Industry                                                     -4 3        6 1            7 0
  Manufacturing                                              -1 4        7 7            8 7
Services                                                     -4 3        1 3            1 8

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                        -2 1        5 6            4 6
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                     0 0        7 0            3 7         1 5       4 0 1
Gross capital formation                                    -10 5         7 5            4 1         5 0                      - """Exports   -O"lmports
Importsof goods and services                                 -4 3        9 6           -2 6         4 1

*The diamonds show four key indicators in the Country (In bold) compared with its income-group average Ifdata are missing the diamond w~llbe incomplete




                                                                    179

                                                                                                                       Cameroon

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1984                                                                                   I
                                                       1994      2003   2004        Inflation ("A)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                11.5     12.7       2.6    0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                          13.6     11.0       1.1    2.3

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                22.4     10.1      18.8   18.4
Current budget balance                          8.5     -5.9       4.3    4.0     1             --"'GDP    deflator -CPI             I
Overall surplusideficit                         -0.1    -9.2       2.0     1.o

TRADE
                                              1984      1994     2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                    [Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                           2,150    1,435     2,347  2,811     II? nnn-
 Oil and refined oil                          1,299      604      408     378
 Cocoa beans, butter, cake                      218      175      476     537
 Manufactures                                     90     204      432     470
Total imports (cif)                           1,133    1,018     2,121  2,415
 Food                                             71     189       227    255
 Fuel and energy                                  17       7        54     51
 Capitatgoods                                   362      314       426    430

Export price index (2000=100)                     75      73       101    107               98     99    00    01    02   03     04

Import price index (2000=100)                     39      74       102    103     I1              Exports        W Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                       195       99        98    104

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1984     1994      2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                                       Current account balanceto GDP (%)                i
Exports of goods and services                 2,612     1,737    3,188  3,726
Imports of goods and services                 2,418     1,534    3,173   3,686
Resource balance                                194      203        14     40

Net income                                       -53    -547      -530   -374
Net current transfers                              0      20       199     151

Current account balance                          141    -325      -317   -183

Financing items (net)                             15       -9      231     258
Changes in net reserves                        -156      334        86     -76

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                      14      114     119
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)               409.5     434.3     581.2  528.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1984     1994      2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                                        :ompositionof 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2,901     8,255     9,433  9,382
  IBRD                                           205      679       145    117
  IDA                                            222      406      944   1,083

Total debt service                               416      382      449     684
  IBRD                                            27      137       45      42
  IDA                                              3        6        13     19

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                                 40      333       784
  Official creditors                             109      310       -46   -144
  Private creditors                              132      -59       -61     23
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)          18       -9       215
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                   0        0         0                             E 6.102
World Bank program
  Commitments                                     22      209         3     20        A IBRD
                                                                                        -                                E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                   50      202        71    112        6 . IDA     D Other myltilateral
                                                                                                    .                    F Private
                                                                                                                          .
  Principal repayments                            11       84        42     45        C IMF
                                                                                        .                                G - Short-terr
  Net flows                                       39      118        29     67
  interest payments                               18       59        16     16
  Net transfers                                   21       59        13     51

Note Inis table was proauceafrom tne ueveiopment tconomics LUBaatabase




                                                            180

MAP SECTIOK


