Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H207-CM  
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Forestry and Environment Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 20, 2006 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H207-CM 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
(the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has carried out specific measures and taken actions to 
promote growth in the environment and forestry sectors, including under the third structural 
adjustment credit that was granted by the Association (the SAC III Forestry Reforms);  
(B) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated March 1, 2005 
describing a program of further actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth 
in the Recipient
’s green environment and forestry sectors and achieve sustainable reductions 
in poverty (hereinafter called the Program) declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(C) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), acting as implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust 
Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, to 
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Program, and by the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) 
of even date herewith, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to ten million United States Dollars (US$10,000,000) (the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant); and 
WHEREAS on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant in 
three tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), 
Page  3
-
2
-
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Budget for the Forest and Green Environment Sector” means a 
budgetary provision made by the Recipient during a Fiscal Year (as hereinafter defined) and 
allocated for management of  the forest sector and related green environment sector (but 
excluding urban, grey, brown and marine environment); 
(b) “BEAC” 
means 
Banque des Etats de l’Afrique Centrale
,
an institution 
established and operating pursuant to the 
“
Convention de Coopération Monétaire entre les 
Etats de l’Afrique Centrale et la République Française
”; 
(c) 
“BEAC Deposit Account” means the deposit account to be opened at  the 
BEAC referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(d) “CAA” 
means 
Caisse Autonome d’Amortisssement
,
an institution 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No.
 87/1176 dated August 28, 1985 “
créant et 
organisant la Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
”; 
(e) 
“CAA Deposit Account” means the deposit account to be opened by 
Caisse Autonome d’Amortisssement
 referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communaut
é
Financière en Afrique Centrale
,
the currency of the Recipient; 
(g) 
“Community Forest” means a forest area as defined in Article 37 of Law 
No. 94-01 dated January 20, 1994, on Forest, Wild life and Fisheries; 
(h) 
“DEPMI” means the software used by MINEFI (as hereinafter 
defined) for the management and monitoring of ministries expenditures; 
(i) 
“EMP” and “Environmental Management Plan” mean the plan 
adopted by the Recipient on October 6, 2005; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“First Tranche” means the tranche of the proceeds of the Grant for an 
amount of SDR 6,800,000 to be released on or after the Effective Date; 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient starting on January 1 
and ending on December 31 of the same year; 
(l) 
“Focus UTO” means the following UTOs (as hereinafter defined): Korup, 
Ndongoro, Bakossi Kupe, Campo Ma’an, Bouba Bek & Nki, Mbam & Djerem, Bénoué and 
Waza; 
(m) 
“Management Plan” or “MP” means a plan for the monitoring and 
management of a UFA (as hereinafter defined) established pursuant to Law No. 94-
01 dated January 20, 1994, on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries and its implementing 
regulations; 
(n) 
“Global Forest Watch Report” means the report produced by the 
Global Forest Watch Program of the World Resources Institute based on the 
Memorandum of Understanding signed with the Recipient on June 16, 2005; 
(o) 
“Management Efficiency Score” or “MES” means the level of 
efficiency in the management of Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined), as 
measured pursuant to the site level tracking tool developed for the World Bank-
WWF Alliance in April 2003, as adapted in 2005; 
(p) 
“MINEP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment and Nature 
Protection established pursuant to Decree No. 2004/320 dated December 8, 2004 and 
organized pursuant to Decree 2005/117 dated April 14, 2005;  
(q) 
“MINFOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife, 
established by Decree No. 2004/320 of December 8, 2004, organizing the Government, 
and organized pursuant to Decree 2005/099 dated April 6, 2005; 
(r) 
“MINEFI” the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, established 
by Decree No. 2004/320 of December 8, 2004 organizing the Government, and organized 
pursuant to Decree 2005/119 dated April 15, 2005; 
(s) 
“National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan” means the action 
plan established and in the process of being adopted by the Recipient, for the 
management and conservation of biological diversity in Protected Areas (as 
hereinafter defined); 
Page  5
-
4
-
(t) 
“National Park” means a Protected Area defined and established 
pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wild life and Fisheries, and 
Decree No. 95/531 dated August 23, 1995; 
(u) 
“ONADEF” means the National Forestry Development Office created by 
Decree No. 90/397 dated February 23, 1990, and replaced by ANAFOR, the National 
Agency for Forest Development established by Decree No. 2002/155 dated June 18, 2002; 
(v) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the Letter 
Agreements signed on behalf of the Association, respectively, on February 21, 
2000, January 24, 2002, and March 6, 2003, and on behalf of the Recipient 
respectively, on March 16, 2000, February 2002, and April 2, 2003; 
(w) 
“Protected Area” means a State forest (
forêt domaniale de l’Etat
)
designated for conservation and/or protection pursuant to Law No. 94-01 on Forest, 
Wildlife and Fisheries, including all forest reserves mentioned in Article 2 (2) of 
Decree No. 95/531 dated August 23, 1995; 
(x) 
“SAC III Forestry Reforms” means the forestry reforms carried 
under the third structural adjustment credit financed by the Association, as referred 
to in Section 3.1 of the Program; 
(y) 
“Second Tranche” means the tranche of the proceeds of the Grant for an 
amount of SDR 5,600,000 to be released on or after the date on which the conditions referred 
to in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been met; 
(z) 
“Simple Management Plan” means a plan for the management of a 
Community Forest established and approved pursuant to Article 37 (2) of Law No. 
94-01 on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries, and its implementing regulations; 
(aa) “UFA” 
means 
a 
Unité Forestière d’Aménagement
,
established and 
operating pursuant to Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries, and its 
implementing regulations; 
(bb) 
“UTO” means 
Unité Technique Opérationnelle
,
a
geographic area 
comprising permanent and non permanent forests established for specific conservation 
and/or operation purposes pursuant to Decree No. 98-345 dated December 21, 1998,
 
“portant organisation du Ministère de l’Environnement et des Forêts
”. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement, an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million and three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,300,000). 
Section 2.02. Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The un-withdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant 
Account in support of the Program; 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into a deposit account opened by CAA 
in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the Recipient shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said account, this amount be 
transferred in a separate deposit account opened in BEAC in CFAF on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Association.  
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled; 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after the aggregate 
amount of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account has reached the amount of 
SDR 6,800,000 unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between 
the Recipient and the Association; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the 
Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) 
above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant or any part thereof. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after the amount of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account shall have reached the amount of 
SDR 12,400,000 unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between 
the Recipient and the Association; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the 
Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) 
above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant or any part thereof. 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1
st
 and 
October 1
st
 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Association such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association may, from time to 
time, reasonably request; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
have the CAA Deposit Account and the BEAC Deposit Account 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of the Fiscal Year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
CAA Deposit Account and the BEAC Deposit Account and the 
audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
that the SAC III Forestry Reforms shall have been amended without prior 
consultation with the Association; 
(c) 
that the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, that any events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and 
(c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Trust Fund GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, have been fulfilled. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for Economy and 
Finance is designated as the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
B.P. 1630 
Yaoundé 
 
Republic of Cameroon 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
237
223
3717 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in 
Yaoundé, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
Abah 
Abah 
Polycarpe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
Markus 
Repnik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Page  14
-
13
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
Page  15
-
14
-
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the 
Recipient is a party;  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
A. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.03 (d) of this Agreement 
Budget allocation and execution
1. 
As of December 31 of the Fiscal Year during which the First Tranche was 
released, the Recipient has committed not less than 75% of the fraction of its Forest 
and Green Environment Sectoral Annual Budget financed out of the Grant, the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant and its own resources. 
Environmental and Social Monitoring
2. 
The Recipient has successfully implemented activities defined for 2006 in the EMP 
and established an environmental and social monitoring mechanism, as evidenced by work 
programs, reports and implementation of mitigation measures. 
Sustainable Management of Production Forests
3. 
The Recipient has: (i) reviewed MP for all UFA awarded before January 2002 and 
for all existing communal forests; and (ii) signed final concession agreements for UFA with 
companies having fulfilled their obligations and taken appropriate measures against 
companies in violation of their obligations (including, as the case may be, the termination of 
the concession), all as evidenced by copies of the signed final concession agreements and 
relevant notifications to companies. 
Wildlife and Protected Areas Management
4. 
Three Focus UTO have received a MES between 40 and 55; three Focus UTO have 
received a MES between 20 and 40; one Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 17, and 
one Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 6, all as evidenced on the basis of a third 
party evaluation carried out on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
Community Management of Forests Resources
5. 
Simple Management Plans of good quality have been prepared and/or satisfactorily 
implemented in 10 Community Forests, as evidenced by said plans, a report on their 
implementation prepared by MINFOF and supervision assessments undertaken. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Institutional Strengthening
6. 
Satisfactory computerized financial management and monitoring mechanisms are 
operational within MINFOF and MINEP at the central, provincial and departmental level, 
and in coherence with DEPMI, all as evidenced by documentation showing on-going internal 
and external monitoring of MINFOF and MINEP expenses and financial management. 
B. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.03 (e) of this Agreement
 
Budget allocation and execution
1. 
As of December 31 of the Fiscal Year during which the Second Tranche 
was released, the Recipient has committed not less than 75% of the fraction of its 
Forest and Green Environment Sectoral Annual Budget financed out of the Grant, 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant and its own resources. 
Environmental and Social Monitoring
2. 
An evaluation of the Program activities’ quantitative and qualitative impacts 
has been carried out, as evidenced by a publicly available report prepared on the 
basis of terms of reference defined in a participatory manner. 
Sustainable Management of Production Forests 
3. 
Illegal logging is under control in all UFA not awarded by December 2005 
and in Protected Areas, as evidenced by satellite images used in the Global Forest 
Watch Report dated December 2005 and comparable satellite images and/or field 
visits of the same areas showing a significant decrease in the number of illegal 
logging roads in comparison to the level observed in 2005. 
Wildlife and Protected Areas Management
4. 
Three Focus UTO have received a MES over 55; three Focus UTO have received a 
MES between 40 and 55; one Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 26, and one Focus 
UTO has received a MES of at least 17, all as evidenced on the basis of a third party 
evaluation carried out on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; the National 
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan has been updated and adopted by MINFOF and 
MINEP; and the fraction of the Deng Deng zone retained for conservation purposes has been 
transformed into a wildlife reserve and the protection of this site has been guaranteed in the 
field. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Community Management of Forests Resources
5. 
At least 90% of plantations established on state owned gazetted land and 
previously under ONADEF’s management are reassigned to appropriate 
management structures: competitive award of management contracts to the private 
sector, management contract with local communities, transformation into UFAs or 
integration into existing UFAs, transformation into Protected Areas with no 
productive purpose (conservation and/or protection), integration into National 
Parks, or environmental protection areas or declassification of plantations into 
urban zones, all as evidenced by official signed acts by MINFOF and/or MINEP in 
support of the new status.  
Institutional Strengthening
6. 
At least 50 forestry facilities have been rehabilitated (including through 
infrastructure, equipment and/or training) at the technical directorate, provincial 
and departmental level, as evidenced by upgrade reports, listings of works carried 
out, equipment bought, and field visits. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions 
are modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, and Article VII, are 
deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) The 
term 
“Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to 
read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
12. 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.” 
4. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency 
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Grant Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Recipient 
Page  20
-
19
-
shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably select.
”; 
(b) 
Section 4.02 (a) and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are 
Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.”; 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”; 
(d) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in terms 
of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
5. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from 
the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
6. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant, 
credit or financing agreement”. 
Page  21
-
20
-
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) 
is modified to read: “any development grant, credit or financing 
agreement”. 
8. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of Section 
8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
9. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, 
the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Grant Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
10. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
 
