 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14741

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                              Date Posted: 07/31/2015

                Country: Cameroon
                         Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                        Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                   2
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                   2
              Series ID: S073020
        First Project ID : P070656                                                  Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Forest And                  Project Costs (US$M):
                           Environment
                           Development
                           Program
  L/C Number:              CH207                    Loan/Credit (US$M):                           25                  8.83
       Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural    Cofinancing (US$M):                           10                   3.8
                           Development
           Cofinanciers: GEF                         Board Approval Date :                                     02/28/2006
                                                              Closing Date:              12/31/2009            12/31/2011
          Sector(s):    Forestry (36%); General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (32%); Central government
                        administration (25%); Sub-national government administration (5%); Law and justice (2%)
         Theme(s):      Other environment and natural resources management (29% - P); Environmental policies
                        and institutions (29% - P); Biodiversity (14% - S); Other rural development (14% - S);
                        Administrative and civil service reform (14% - S)
    Second Project ID :P073020                                                     Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name:   Cameroon    Forest &        Project Costs (US$M):
                        Environment Sector
                        Program (fesp)
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                         10                    3.8
     Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                        Development
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                     06/20/2006
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:              12/31/2009            12/31/2011
          Sector(s):    Forestry  (35%),  General public administration sector (33%),  General  agriculture, fishing and
                        forestry sector (32%)
         Theme(s):      Biodiversity (100%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                   Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Stephen Hutton           William R. Sutton       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
No statement of objectives was present in the Development Grant Agreement.

The Program Development Objective as listed in the Program Document is "to strengthen public and private efforts to
achieve socially-, economically-, and ecologically sustainable use of national forest and wildlife resources." (page 14).

The GEF cofinancing uses the same Program Document and objective, but is labeled the Cameroon Forest &
Environment Sector Program (FESP), P073020.

Measures to support socially, economically, and ecologically sustainable resource use overlap, so this review will
evaluate the objective as a whole rather than subdividing it. The ICR argues (page 17) that the objective is too broad
or vague to be evaluable. However, it would in principle be evaluable to assess whether social, economic and
ecological sustainability of natural resource use was improved.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Policy Areas:
 The operation had five policy areas (described in some places in the Program Document as components and
subcomponents):

1. Environmental regulation and information management. This included support for an environmental impact
mitigation plan, regulations on environmental impact assessment, improved monitoring, and improved transparency
and civil society involvement.
2. Sustainable management of production forests. This supported the implementation of forest management plans for
commercial forest concessions, and a regulatory system for tracking timber custody and enforcing forest laws. It also
provided some support for forest estate zoning and for production of nontimber forest products.
3. Management of wildlife and protected areas. This included preparation and implementation of work programs for
protected areas and collection of data to measure management effectiveness.
4. Community management of forest resources. This included restructuring of the forestry agency, implementation of
community-based management plans, and transfers in management of plantations on state-owned land.
5. Strengthening institutions. This included capacity building in forestry and environment agencies, including in
staffing, financial management, procurement, work planning, and management and control systems.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  The Bank provided budget support through a single development policy operation with two financing sources: an IDA
grant (the Forest and Environment Development Program) and a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant (the Forest
& Environment Sector Program). The single operation was designed to be disbursed in three tranches, each with
tranche release conditions, for a total of SDR 17.3 million (USD $25 million) in IDA grants and a total of USD $10
million in GEF grants. According to the ICR, OP 9.01 related to the Procedures for Investment Operations under the
GEF was waived for the first time to enable the GEF funds to be fully blended with IDA financing to support a DPO (p.
4). The conditions for the second tranche were not fully met, even after an extension in closing date from 2009 to
2011, and so the operation closed in December 2011 with only the first tranche disbursed ($8.83 million from the IDA
grant, $3.8 million from the GEF grant). DFiD was also to provide $6.8 million of financing in parallel to the
Bank-financed operation; the ICR does not report on the amount of parallel financing actually provided by DFiD.

A large number of development partners led by the World Bank aimed to harmonize their support for Forest and
Environment policy reforms in Cameroon. There was parallel financing of the government's program through a
Basket Fund to support technical assistance, which the Bank did not contribute to and which was not formally part of
the Bank's operation but was part of the overall donor support. The Basket Fund received $24.3 million from the UK
Department for International Development (DFiD), Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), German
International Development Bank (KfW), and Agence Française de Développement (AFD). There was other parallel
support from the African Development Bank (AfDB), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), United Nations
Development Programme, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), International Union for the Conservation of Nature,
and SNV (Netherlands Development Organization). All these partners signed a code in January 2006 to harmonize
monitoring and evaluation systems and conduct joint review missions.

As the operation was a Development Policy Operation (DPO) for general budget support, no Borrower Contribution
was expected.

The operation encountered major delays. Six and a half years passed between concept note and effectiveness, and
five years from effectiveness until closing. The ICR explained that these delays were due to the change of instrument
from a Specific Investment Loan to a Development Policy Operation, delays in the Government's adoption of the
program, and delays in completion of some prior actions and tranche release conditions.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Forest resources provide a significant contribution to the economy, contributing an average of 8.9% of GDP over
1992-2000, accounting for 28.2% of nonoil exports, and providing the largest source of employment in rural areas.
While there had been growth in timber production, this had not been matched by improvements of sustainable forestry
management or protection of forest ecosystems, leading to a rate of forest lost off 0.65% per year, driven mostly my
expansion of agriculture and consumption for fuel wood. Cameroon has a high level of biodiversity and a high
proportion of land dedicated to conservation, but these were threatened by weak management. The Program
Document notes (page 15) that Cameroon had adequate environmental laws, but very little ability to implement the
laws due to institutional weakness and a lack of monitoring.

The objectives were relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy at approval, which aimed to improve management of
forest resources and had "sustainable management of forests and effective protection of national parks and
biodiversity reserves" as a targeted outcome. The objectives were relevant to the country's forest and environment
strategy. The objectives were less relevant to the country strategy at the time of closure, which focused on "activities
geared toward ensuring the transparent,equitable, and sustainable use of natural resources, including mining,
agriculture, fisheries, and protected areas" rather than on forestry. This reflected changing government and Bank
priorities. Forest and environment sectors are not priorities in the government's Vision 2035 strategy or the PRSP for
2010-20. However, though deprioritized as compared to the time of approval, the forest sector remains an important
source of employment and livelihood and remains under threat.

The language of the objective could have been framed more directly (e.g. to increase the social, economic, and
ecological sustainability of use natural resources and wildlife) rather than the weak framing of "strengthen[ing] public
and private efforts", and improving transparency and governance was a goal of the operation and so could have been
included in the objective, but overall the objective was still relevant.

Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The Government of Cameroon had devised a 10-year policy for forest reforms in 2004, the Forest and Environment
Sector Program. The Bank and other donors, trying to work in a harmonized fashion following the Paris Declaration
on Aid Effectiveness, worked to jointly support this program.

The broad design of the program included aspects that could help to increase sustainability of forest and wildlife
resources. The design of the main policy reform was reasonable. Reviewing forestry concessions, issuing forestry
regulations, establishing new contracts with sustainable forest management plans, and enforcing these plans could
help to improve the sustainability of the forestry sector. Other policy reforms may also have supported the program
objectives: issuing regulations on environmental impact assessment could improve environmental outcomes in forest
polices and programs, restructuring the forestry ministry to separate environmental protection from
production-focused roles could help to encourage sustainable management.

However, the remaining elements of the policy matrix were largely institutional capacity building outputs (which may
have been more suited to an investment lending) or were indicators (along the lines of a P4R operation - which did not
exist as an instrument at the time) rather than policy actions. These might have been better suited to investment
lending than to a policy lending instrument. For example, the protected areas and wildlife component was not
centered around a policy reform: its prior actions were the establishment of work programs in protected areas and
measurement of baseline data, and its triggers were to achieve certain scores of management effectiveness. A
trigger for tranche three was for illegal logging to be "under control" in forest areas and protected areas. Some other
triggers were narrow and specific outputs (eg establishing premises and staffing for a team for implementation
monitoring) rather than being critical policy reforms.

Relevance of design is rated Modest.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Outputs:
Progress was achieved in a number of areas surrounding budget allocations and processes, environmental and social
monitoring, capacity building, forest sector regulation, and management of conservation areas. The ICR reports that
existing management plans were reviewed for 100% of forest units, 90% of forest units had a forest management
plan, 33% had a signed final concession agreement, 26% had a reviewed management plan and gazette degree. 12
communal forests had a gazette decree and 6 had a management plan approved.

However, the trigger on sustainable forest management for the second tranche was not met, and this led to the
cancellation of the operation. This trigger required review of existing forest management areas, enforcement of
sustainable management obligations including termination of concessions in violation, and issuance of new
concessions that would follow these obligations. The ICR notes that "Achievement of this trigger was the most
important element of the DPO with respect to long-term sustainability of the forest sector. Without it, the long-term
management of forests remains uncertain" It also notes that 19 of the 20 new concession agreements signed
included provisions for mining activities, which would be in conflict with sustainable forest management (page 8). The
ICR reports (page 13) that the official reason concessions were not finalized was that the Prime Minister's office did
not sign the concession agreements, for a range of reasons including noncompliance with forest law provisions that
required a mill in every management area. A shift in government priorities to mining may also have been relevant.

Most third tranche activities were also not completed, and there were gaps in important activities on land use
planning, forest law enforcement, community participation in protected areas and hunting zones, and implementation
of biodiversity protection measures by logging companies.

Outcomes:
The ICR does not provide evidence on social, economic, or environmental sustainability of resource use. The ICR
does not report on whether the management plans were implemented, or whether the related agreements were
enforced, or on whether they contributed to positive outcomes for forest sustainability.

Protected area management effectiveness was increased by a significant amount in 8 key protected areas, as
measured by a Management Effectiveness Score assessed by the Worldwide Fund for Nature.

The ICR states (page 19) that illegal logging has been significantly reduced, though the formal satellite image
assessment for the indicator for this was not carried out.

The ICR states (page 25-26) that civil society organizations reported that the program had improved community
access to natural resources, and that communities had benefited from regulations that redistributed forestry fees, and
that the program played a major role in altering the forest taxation system to transfer revenues to local bodies for
development purposes.

The achievement of objectives is rated as Modest.

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


 6. Outcome:
   Though the objectives were substantially relevant, there were weaknesses in design of the operation and choice of
instrument, the operation was cancelled without disbursing the second or third tranche as key activities had not been
completed, and little evidence was provided on the effects of the operation on the social, economic, or ecological
sustainability of forest use.
  a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR argues that institutional capacity building efforts are likely to be sustained, though cumbersome and
non-transparent procurement procedures still pose a risk. Improvements in the management of protected areas face
risks from the lack of predictable and adequate funding, pressure from forestry and mining sectors, and the absence
of agreement between ministries on land allocation measures and land use. Improvements in the sustainability of
forestry areas are threatened by policies that allow mining in those areas. The ICR reports (page 26) that there are
already many examples where mining exploration permits have been issued in areas with protected areas and forest
concessions. The ICR states that the risk to reforms that shifted forest revenues to local governing bodies is low.
There is also a risk from declining government ownership and commitment to forest reforms, though the ICR notes
that the government signed a Voluntary Partnership Agreement with the EU on establishing a supply chain for legal
timber, which demonstrates some ongoing commitment.

The progress on a transparent environmental information system does not appear to have been sustained; at the time
of this ICR Review the website for the system http://www.sie-cameroun.com/ was not functional.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
 a. Quality at entry:
    The operation was built on a long history of involvement in the forest sector in Cameroon, and a significant
body of analytic work, including a 2002 evaluation of World Bank involvement in the forest sector in Cameroon.
The program document reports that a wide range of stakeholders were consulted.

The operation was originally designed as an investment loan, and was then converted into a DPO during
preparation. This conversion contributed to delays, with 6.5 years from concept note to effectiveness. The
conversion also contributed to some weaknesses in design, as while some policy reforms were an important part
of the results chain, other elements such as institutional capacity building, protected area management, and
others may have been better suited to an investment lending operation. The ICR argues (page 3) that the Bank
had considered providing capacity building support through a parallel project, but that this did not occur because
of IDA resource constraints, and that the Bank's inability to provide capacity building support constrained the
Bank's ability to affect implementation. Instead, the operation ended up including elements of investment lending
design (ICR page 28), and parallel technical assistance was provided by the Basket Fund financed by other
donors. Though a number of financial risks were identified, the political risks surrounding the signature of the
concession agreements was not adequately identified at the time of design. These weaknesses contributed to the
failure of the operation to achieve its objectives.

A further weakness was that the operation did not follow good practice for use of DPOs, which are intended to be
general budget support. Instead, the Bank required DPO financing to be used specifically for financing forestry
and environmental agency activities (see section 11b below). Many of the activities being supported were
operational in nature - preparation and implementation of management plans, capacity building of agencies,
enforcement activities, protected area management, etc. - and may have been better supported through
investment lending. If the goal of the DPL was to specifically channel funding to the forestry and environment
agencies, then this can be better supported through investment lending than through a DPO, which is intended to
provide general budget support.

The M&E design was overly complex and detailed; its design appeared to micromanage rollout of the
government's program, which is in conflict with the purpose of the DPO instrument as supporting government
ownership and control of programs. Despite the level of detail of the M&E system, it failed to include indicators to
track achievement of the high level outcomes targeted by the program objectives.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:

    The official barrier to signing concession agreements (the missed trigger for tranche 2) was that concessions
were not in compliance with the Forest Law, which required that a sawmill be present in each forest area. The
Bank noted that there was already excess capacity of mills and Bank staff and management worked with the
government to change the law, but were unsuccessful in doing so, in part because of a view by the government
that no longer favored timber concessions and a change in government priorities and strategy. The ICR also
reports (page 13-14) that this attempt was undermined by some supervision missions, which suggested that the
tranche trigger could be reformulated or postponed, and so potentially gave the impression to government that the
tranche could potentially be released without meeting the trigger. Bank management did not approve these
strategies, as weakening the trigger would have created risks for the operation. The ICR also notes (page 34) that
the Bank could have more clearly conveyed to the government the obligation of the government to meet the
Bank's legal agreement, even though this contained restrictions not required by other donors. The Bank deserves
credit for cancelling the operation when it became clear that the trigger condition would not be met: Continuing to
disburse the tranche despite nonperformance could have undermined the credibility of the Bank in establishing
DPO triggers. However, arguably this should have been carried out earlier, rather than leaving the operation open
for 5 years.

The efforts to harmonize support with other donors created problems for the supervision phase. The Bank and
other donors carried out joint donor supervision missions and carried out reports on the broad overall government
program supported by a large pool of donors. But the Bank's procedures also required it to create separate
supervision documents for its DPO, which was a subset of the overall donor-supported government program. This
created tension with the overall unified approach, and contributed to mixed signals being sent to the government
from donors. However, the ICR also notes that generally the donor coordination was effective and that the donors
were able to speak with one voice and act in a coordinated manner (page 34).

The Bank's supervision was hindered by turnover in TTLs, with five TTLs over the course of the operation
including four TTLs over 2009-11.

   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:

   The government did not appear to remain committed to the design of the operation. Long delays contributed to
reform fatigue, and the government's strategy shifted from support for forestry to mining and industrial plantations,
from a focus on growth and employment. The operation was cancelled due to government decisions that
prevented meeting a key trigger for the second tranche. The ICR also notes that there were some weaknesses in
performance by key ministries; the economy ministry was the main counterpart to the Bank, but did not adequately
coordinate interministerial issues between the forestry and environment ministries. The finance ministry should
also have been clearer in explaining to line ministries the process of a DPO, and helping them to understand that
the funds for carrying out the overall government forestry program would be provided through the government
budget, not from donor funds.


   Government Performance Rating :                             Unsatisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented by the forestry and environment ministries. The ICR notes that the environment
ministry performed well in producing the outputs it was responsible for, while the forestry ministry had mixed
performance. Implementation was delayed in part due to staff turnover in the implementing ministries, as the staff
who had been the main champions during preparation were no longer present during implementation. The ICR
reports that the level of interministerial cooperation was poor, especially between the environment and forest
ministries, which became separate agencies during preparation. Weak cooperation between the forest and
planning ministries also stalled progress on some activities. Regional planning committees established under the
operation did not meet regularly or monitor program implementation effectively. The ICR reports (page 13) that
one reason behind failure to achieve concession agreements was that the forestry ministry had inefficient
processing of documentation, including losing key documents such as environmental assessments and gazetting
decrees. The ICR states (page 12) that the overall facilitation committee chaired by the finance minister (and
designated subordinates) had difficulty making decisions because its members did not have sufficient authority.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Program Document included a complicated system for tracking production of policy actions, triggers, and
benchmarks, with roughly 100 indicators, each with a verification source (Annex 10). Many indicators were binary
output measures (X has been done or not done) or input measures. With some important exceptions (on wildlife and
protected areas and on using satellite data to measure illegal roads as a proxy for illegal forestry), the indicators did
not include outcomes, and so provided little evidence on which to assess progress on achieving the objectives of the
program. The responsibility for collecting M&E data was assigned to the forestry ministry, and specifically to a
monitoring unit within the ministry.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The complex M&E design created a burden on government for tracking and managing the project. The ICR notes
(page 15) that funding constraints meant that M&E was not prioritized, data collection was incomplete, reporting on
indicators was sometimes superficial, and there was little field-based verification of data. The ICR notes that external
monitoring did not seem to make a real difference to M&E implementation.

The degree to which data was collected and reported is not clear. The ICR did not report on the majority of indicators,
though it may not have been useful to do so. The ICR reported on 9 indicators related to the production of tranche
release triggers, but useful indicators such as additional length of illegal roads were not documented.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E system was used largely as a reporting tool and for tracking tranche release triggers, rather than for
informing program management.
   M&E Quality Rating: Negligible


11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
As a Development Policy Operation, the operation is not subject to the traditional "safeguard" policies on
environmental impact assessment or others. However, under OP 8.60 the Bank is still required to assess the
potential for likely significant positive and negative environmental and social effects, and then for any such effects to
conduct analytic work, to support government consultations, to assess country systems for managing effects, and to
provide support to the government to fill gaps in country systems.

The Program Document noted (page 31) that the operation could have significant effects on the environment and
forests, and so the government commissioned comprehensive environmental and social studies, which were publicly
disclosed. The government also produced an indigenous peoples development plan. The government studies
concluded that the environmental impacts of the program would be mostly positive, that there would be no large scale
or irreversible adverse environmental effects, displacement of people, or large scale infrastructure. The social studies
concluded that the legal framework for managing environmental risks was sufficient, but identified gaps in the capacity
of the environmental and forestry management agencies, which the operation then aimed to mitigate by supporting
capacity development. The program document reports that a wide range of stakeholders were consulted, including on
forestry issues.

Formally applying only the environmental and social requirements of OP8.60 was problematic, because as described
below the operation did not provide general budget support but rather financed the operations of the line agencies.
The Borrower made an effort to mimic elements of investment lending safeguards requirements, but arguably with
less oversight than would have occurred from investment lending safeguards.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR refers (page 7, 8) to a trigger on budget allocation and execution, which is not in the policy matrix of the
Program Document, but refers to content on page 15 and 16 of the Development Grant Agreement, which states
requirements for the government commit "not less than 75% of the fraction of its Forest and Green Environment
Sectoral Annual Budget financed out of the Grant, the GEF Trust Fund Grant and its own resources".
The language implies that the IDA Grant and GEF Grant are specifically financing the Borrower's Forest and Green
Environment Sectoral Annual Budget, which the Borrower is then legally required to commit. This makes it appear
that the Bank was not providing general budget support to the government of Cameroon, but instead was financing
forest and environmental expenditures. This is not encouraged under the Bank's guidance on DPOs.

Similarly, the ICR's discussion of implementation (page 11) makes it appear that DPO funds were intended to be
specifically used by implementing agencies for achieving the DPO objectives. The ICR states that one cause of
delays in project implementation was that DPO funds were deposited in a central bank account but that delays in
drawing on this account and disbursing funds to line ministries hampered implementation. The ICR also states (page
32) that fiduciary design elements such as traceability audits were not well adapted to a DPO. The Program
Document (page 8) includes a costing of the Government's program by component, implying that the DPO funds were
to be used to finance the program rather than provide general budget support. A copy of the budget for the Ministry of
Environment and Forestry stored by the Bank in project files indicates that IDA and GEF funds were to be used to
finance a number of specific activities.

The ICR also notes (page 11, page 24) that the environment ministry did not understand the financial arrangements of
the DPO instrument: it expected to receive funds directly from the Bank, and it expected to be reimbursed for activities
it carried out related to the second tranche phase of the operation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   High               The risk of mining in forest and
                     Outcome:                                                  protected areas is a significant risk to
                                                                               the accomplishments of the program.
            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory     The efforts by the task team to continue
                              Unsatisfactory                                   the program by delaying or dropping a
                                                                               key trigger did not serve to support the
                                                                               objectives of the operation.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Unsatisfactory     The declining government commitment
                              Unsatisfactory                                   to the operation goals, the extreme
                                                                               delays and the inability to meet trigger
                                                                               conditions constitute a significant
                                                                               drawback.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR notes that:
  Elements of DPOs and SILs should not be mixed in a DPO. The DPO was used to try to increase government
    ownership of the program to overcome political risks, but the program maintained many elements of
    investment lending including intensive supervision.

    DPOs need parallel technical assistance, and this should be well coordinated with the DPO. In this operation,
     the technical assistance was provided by other donors, and this reduced the level of coordination.

    Using GEF funds to cofinance a multitranche or programmatic policy reform program is risky, in that even if
     environmental objectives are being met, the operation and disbursements may fail due to barriers in other
     sectors. In this operation, progress on environmental ministry activities was harmed by the inability to disburse
     future tranches due to the failure to meet the disbursement conditions.

    M&E indicators should be selected to support the program objectives.

    High turnover in government and Bank staff weakens institutional memory and the ability to carry out effective
     implementation.

    Bank task teams should ensure that recommendations in aides memoires do not conflict with the policy dialog
     carried out by Bank management.

    There are tensions between Bank procedures and the desire to carry out harmonized donor programs.

IEG also notes that:
   Mixing elements of SILs into a DPO created confusion for the client, and could have undermined the
    requirements for E&S risk management under the DPO instrument.


14. Assessment Recommended?
                                            Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was well written and clear. It provided a detailed and candid description of implementation challenges on the
government side, including financial arrangements and lack of cooperation and coordination. It provides a similarly
detailed description of the reasons why the tranche condition was not met, including discussion of weaknesses in the
Bank's supervision. It provided a candid assessment of the relevance of objectives, noting the shift in the
government's strategy away from forestry and natural resource management as a priority area, but did not specifically
assess the relevance of design of the operation, despite a number of weaknesses in design. It should be commended
for noting some of the problems resulting from committing DPO disbursements to financing line ministry operations.
The ICR included a useful section and annex on beneficiary assessment, and included a number of useful and
relevant lessons.

A weakness in the ICR is that it declares the project objectives to be unevaluable, and instead evaluates only against
intermediate outcomes. This is understandable given the lack of evidence on outcomes produced by the M&E
system, but a stronger M&E design could have measured economic, social and ecological sustainability.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
