Document of
The 'World Bank
Report No: 17965 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROP'OSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO
BRAZIL
FOR A
STATE PENSION SYSTEMS REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JU1NE 29, 1998
Brazil Country Management Unit LCC5C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



Brazil
State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Loan
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective  ............................................................                                           2
1. Project development objective  and key performance indicators .......                                       .........       2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................                                                     2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ...........                                ......................       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy  .............                                  ..........................        2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......                                    .......       3
C. Project Description  Summary  ...............................................................                                         3
1. Project components ...............................................................                                          3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................                                             5
3. Benefits and target population.                                                                                              5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.                                                                               5
D. Project Rationale.                                                                                                                    6
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  ...........                               ........6......        6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  7
3.  Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design  ...........                                  ..............      7
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ..............                                    ................        7
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................                                        8
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................                                                               9
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                     9
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                     9
3. Technical ...............................................................9
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                 9
5. Social ..............................................................                                                        9
6. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                      9
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                        9
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks ..                     ............................................................   10
1. Sustainability  ..........................................................                                                   10
2. Critical risks ..........................................................                                                    12
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........................................................                                    14



G. Main Loan Conditions ................................................................  14
1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................                                14
2. Other ...............................................................                                                   15
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................   15
I.  Compliance with  Bank Policies ..............................................................                                   16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .17
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .21
Project Implementation Program .22
Detailed Project Components and Costs .24
Annex 3.               Estimated Project Costs ....................................................  28
Annex 4.*              Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or [NA]
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary [NA]
Annex 5.*              Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or [NA]
Financial Summary [NA]
Annex 6.               Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................  29
Table A.           Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...................................    31
Table Al.           Consultant Selection Arrangements ...................................... .   32
Table B.            Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ...........                                ..........  33
Table C.           Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...............                              ........................  34
Annex 7.               Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................   35
Annex 8.               Documents in Project File .......................................   36
Annex 9.               Statement of Loans and Credits .....................                              ..................   37
Annex 10.              Country at a Glance .......................................  39
* The streamlined LIL approach does not require these annexes hence they are not presented.



Brazil
State Pension Systems Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department
Date: June 24, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Chris Parel
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                  Sector Manager/Director:
Project ID: BR-PE-57910   Sector:                    Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: LIL Technical Assistance Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes   x  No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loa         [ ] Credit     [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5.0 million
Proposed terms:                         []  Multicurrency     [x] Single currency (US$)
Grace period (years): 5           [ ]  Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 3/4 % p.a.
Service charge:   %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                    5.0                0.0              5.0
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                          3.8                 1.2             5.0
IDA
Other (specify)
Total                                              10.0
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: idem
Responsible agencies: Ministries of Finance and Social Security (MPAS) and State Agencies Responsible for Pensions
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1998       1999       2000      2001
Annual      0.0         1.8        2.3        0.9
Cumulative      0.0        1.8         4.1        5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years    Expected effectiveness date: 11/98  Expected closing date: 12/01
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



-2 -
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overall project objective is to prepare the states technically to address pension reform and help them
to move through the initial phases of reform. It is also to assist the Federal and State Governments to
choosefrom among the best options and encourage them to implement sound reforms.
State pension reform comprises four phases:
i.    Technical preparedness and diagnostic
ii.    Elaboration of pension reform proposals
iii.    Design of required institutional framework
iv.    Implementation of reform proposals
The project is a Learning and Innovations Loan (LIL) with limited objectives. It specifically targets
Phases #1 and #2 and exceptionally will support Phase #3 activities for more advanced states.
B: Sitrategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: R98-116 Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
Federal and state fiscal reform is one of the CAS's principal objectives. The fiscal situation of most
Brazilian states is precarious. State and local debt in December 1997 was 13% of GDP and 38% of total
government debt. Pension obligations constitute a large and growing component of states' debt,
consuming 30-50% of revenues in some states. A further indication of the gravity of the pension crisis is
given by the ratio of pension expenditures to salary bill for current state civil servants. For instance, in
Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, and Rio Grande do Sul the ratio ranges from 50% to 120%. Hence,
resolving the pension crises that afflict most states is essential to achieving a stable fiscal situation.
However, pension reform will not be easy. Implicit pension debt for some of the larger states could be
billions of dollars. Hence, the solution to the states pension problem is not immediately clear.
Nevertheless, it is essential that the problem be confronted immediately and in a technically sound
manner. The Project is a first, necessary step in that process. As such, it addresses an important CAS
objective and is specifically cited in Annex 3-B of the CAS document approved by the Board on June 2,
1998.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*  State pensions are constitutionally a state attribution and the Federal Government
consequently has no obligations or rights regarding state pension reform. It is hoped that the
project will lead to the diagnosing and dimensioning of state problems and the first steps in
designing solutions.
*  The magnitude of the costs of state pension reform (implicit pension debt) and how it will be
financed is a major area of concern. A related area is the 'portability' of individual state
reforms and how they might be incorporated into a national solution involving the INSS and
other Federal pension reforms. There is yet no defined Governnient strategy for addressing
these issues. They will be studied in parallel Bank ESW and discussed extensively in Project
workshops.
*   Federal pension reform is a Government priority. A Constitutional reforn addressing the



-3-
*   Federal pension reform is a Government priority. A Constitutional reform addressing the
INSS system is making its way through Congress with some difficulty. October-November
elections will delay passage.
*   Both Federal and State Government's consider state pension reform a fiscal and social
priority. Numerous pension funds (MPAS cites 1,200 such funds) have been set up in states
and municipalities to address pension problems but without adequate financing or attention
to actuarial and other technical requirements. Pension fund management is also addressed in
the Project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the projecr and strategic choices:
Diagnosing states' pension problems and designing reform proposals.
C: Project Description Summary
Objectives to be achieved in each of the phases will be:
Objective                          Components & Description
Phase #1     (a) States develop a sample data base of active and retired state employees sufficient
Diagnostic   to extract actuarial data for pension modeling
(b) States and MARE train 2 state officials in pension reform and pension modeling
making use of the Bank's "P]ROST" software
(c) States and MARE produce a diagnostic of current and future pension obligations
and financial implications using PROST or other simulation models in use
(d) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
(e) States strengthen pension units with appropriate mandate, trained personnel,
budget, hardware and software (also from the Loan) to manage pension reform
(f) MPAS develops a Technical Unit (TU) with a legal mandate and appropriate
resources, including trained staff, to assist the states and the MF in implementing the
project and monitoring through shared data the evolution of state pensions. The TU
will assist the MF in project implementation
Phase #2     (a) States develop reform proposals using PROST and any other simulation models
Reform        vetted by the TU
Proposal
(b) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
Phase #3     (a) A few states, on an exceptional basis, design the legislative and institutional
Institutional  framework necessary to implement pension reform; this Phase could become the
-Framework    object of a second LIL or otlier Bank operation
(b) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
Government  Federal and state pension reform supported though studies targeting 3 crucial areas:
Strengthening  (i) complementary legislation to implement the Constitutional reforms; (ii) "best
practice" for pension fund management, and (iii) Federal INSS pension related
financial obligations to the states and state obligations to the INSS.
It is expected that at least 15 of Brazil's 26 slates (plus the Federal District) will complete Project Phases
#1 and #2.
The Bank will further support the Project by undertaking a study (see box below) addressing the issues of
how implicit pension debt might be financed, scenarios for a global pension solution involving Federal



-4 -
and state systems and the implications of such a system for the 'portability' of reformed state pension
systems. If necessary, the Project could reallocate funds for PROST modeling of such a solution. An
important Project output will be proposals for next steps in state pension reform.
The Proposed World Bank Study
The World Bank proposes to undertake an independent study of critical pension issues in the first year of
the Project that is designed to support Federal and State reform efforts. Work is just beginning on
defining the study but the general outline is likely to include the following points:
Objectives. Study objectives will be to monitor, guide and support state reforms of civil service pension
systems. The study will identify relevant lessons suggested by the experience of other countries (inter
alia, Argentina, USA and Chile) and Brazil's own experience in the context of state debt and federal-state
fiscal relations. It will also discuss what must be done for state reforms to be consistent with broader
reforms of the social security system.
Description. Specifically, four issues will be addressed:
(i)    Suitability and design of funded pension schemes for state civil servants,
(ii)   The implications of likely national reform scenarios for state pension reform,
(iii)   Costs of and options for funding the transition from existing PAYGO to funded systems,
(iv)   Implications of contemplated state reforms for Brazil: fiscal adjustment, labor market efficiency,
capital market development.
Design and Timing. The study proposal contemplates three interim briefs followed by a main report,
"Reforming State Pension Systems: Main Challenges and Realistic policy Options". The proposed briefs
would be:
(i) Integrating Federal and State Pension Systems--Payoffs, Intemational Experience and Main
Lessons for Brazil.
(ii) Feasibility and Design of a Second (Funded) Pillar--The Brazilian Case and International
Experience
(iii) Funding the Transition-Magnitudes of State Pension Debt, International Experience, and
Realistic Options for Brazilian States.
Dissemination. The study findings would be incorporated into the Project's dissemination efforts. It is
proposed that briefs would be discussed at Project and CONFAZ (a permanent group of State Secretaries
of Finance) workshops and during training sessions. Dissemination would also include concerned
Federal, State, Municipal and private groups and individuals.



-5 -
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown)
Component                Category           Cost Incl.    % of Total    Bank     % Bank
Contingencies             Financing   Financing
(US$)                   (US$)
Start up                   Training                102,520         1.0       33,000        33.0
Consulting Firms         470,000         5.0      155,000        33.0
Administration            17,000         0.1         5,000       33.0
Phase # I                 Consulting-Individual  2,200,000        22.0      363,000        16.5
Training                725,000         7.0      119,000        16.5
Goods                 530,000         5.0      530,000       100.0
Miscellaneous            537,400         5.0       88,000        16.5
Phase #2                  Consulting-Individual  2,200,000        22.0     2,200,000      100.0
Miscellaneous            448,000         4.0      448,000       100.0
Phase #3                  Consulting-Indiviclual  1,050,000       11.0      483,000        46.0
Miscellaneous            200,700         2.0       92,000        46.0
Government Studies        Consulting-Firmns        424,000         4.0          0           0.0
Miscellaneous             28,750         0.2          0           0.0
Administration           162,000         2.0          0           0.0
Contingencies             Miscellaneous            904,630         9.0      484,000        53.0
Total  10,000,000    I           5,000,000
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project is designed to diagnose state pension problems and support the development of reform
proposals and in exceptional cases, design of institutional framework proposals. No specific policy
solutions are being proposed--these must be worked out by the states with technical assistance from the
Project. However, through training, exposure to "best practice", and consultant and TU support it is
expected that proposals will meet necessary technical standards.
There are three institutional objectives, (i) constituting/strengthening the state units responsible for
pension management and ensuring that their mandate, resources and staffing are adequate, and (ii)
constituting a technical unit in MPAS that will monitor and provide technical assistance to the states both
during the Project and on a permanent basis thereafter, and (iii) helping Brazil to identify and debate the
best options for reforming the Federal/State pension system.
3. Benefits and target population:
Successful pension reform will benefit the nation as a whole:
*   The Federal Government benefits from State fiscal reform and strengthening
*   The State Governments benefit from addressing the huge fiscal burden imposed by pensions
*   State pensioners benefit from having State pensions on a sound financial basis
*   State populations benefit from having more financial resources available to States to address
development needs
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU is under the borrowing institution, the Ministry of
Finance. It is headed by an experienced advisor to the Executive Secretary. The advisor is also heading a



-6 -
PCU for a large IDB umbrella state fiscal modernization loan. Experienced staff inyolved in managing a
IDB loan will also participate in the Project PCU which should ensure smooth implementation.
Liaison with states will be facilitated through the Ministry of Finance's CONFAZ, a permanent
organization of State Finance Secretaries which meets regularly. The head of the PCU is also the advisor
to the MF coordinator of CONFAZ. A similar forum coordinated by MARE for states' Administration
Secretaries will also be used for this end.
Technical Unit (TU)--MPAS. A Technical Unit will be constituted at MPAS to assist the PCU in
managing the technical aspects of the Project. It will vet terms of reference for state contracted
consultants manage studies, organize workshops, and generally manage, provide opinions, and vet all
technical aspects of the Project. TU staff will be trained in PROST and given courses in pension reform
so that they can assist the states in carrying out diagnostics and elaborating reform programs. Consultants
and seconded Federal Government and MPAS staff required to carry out this work will sit in the TU as
well. It is expected that the TU will become a permanent MPAS unit liaising and providing technical
assistance to the states.
Consultatbive Committee. The Project Coordinating Unit and the Technical Unit will be supported by this
committee whose membership will include high ranking officials from four ministries--MF, MPAS,
MPO and MARE. The Committee will serve as a sounding board for issues and proposals that arise
during the implementation of the Project.
Agreements ("Convenios") and Operational Manual. State obligations and conditionality will be detailed
in Agreements and an Operational Manual (see Section G). Conditions must be met to qualify for Project
participation and in order to pass from one Phase to the next. The TU will verify that these conditions
have been satisfactorily met.
Financial Management and Procurement. The Project Coordinator and his staff are currently managing
an IDB multi-state loan hence they are experienced. Procurement will be supervised from the Bank's
Brasilia office. A Financial Management Specialist (FMS) has already diagnosed PCU capability and
made recommendations. A Brasilia based FMS will now assist the PCU to meet Bank standards by
effectiveness and will help with project implementation thereafter.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A LIL is justified for the following reasons:
* Streamlined Bank Processing. The Federal and State Governments want to provide
technical assistance immediately to support reform efforts underway.
*  Small Size. The $5 million loan ($ 10 million total operation size) is appropriate for the
activities to be undertaken.
*  Rapid Government Processing. Given budget restrictions, the elections, and the desire to
begin work as soon as possible the Project was seen as being an intervention that would
obtain ample support and be more easily processed.
* New and Innovative Approaches. The Project is piloting PROST in Brazil and providing
individual states with resources to generate their own solutions. This is a new area of
activity in Brazil for the Bank, the Federal Government and the states and it is
'experimental'.
*   Trust/DemandAmong Stakeholders. The Project is designed to promote dissemination of
results through publications and workshops in the states which could be key in building
support for reform in this sensitive policy area.
*  Maximum Flexibility. The Project will allow for reallocation of funding and adaptation
among components to obtain the best approach before committing more resources.



-7-
Alternative approaches that were rejected include:
1.    A Project (LIL) that Included Phase 3. A LIL is confined to a 3 year term and $5 million. To
include a component addressing design of institutional frameworks in Brazilian states would exceed the
Project's time and cost limits and complicate the operation unnecessarily. Rather it was deemed
preferable to deal with institutional framework and implementation phases in a subsequent LIL or other
operations if justified by states' progress. Regarding the timing of the different LIL components, we note
that the LIL's Phase #1 (generate a clean data base sample, train staff, and generate diagnostics and
public debate) could easily take 18 months or more depending upon the states while Phase #2 (reform
proposals and debate) could take an additional 12 months or more. Also, October-November elections
and transition will likely delay loan processing and start-up, another reason for not including Phase #3.
2.    Small Technical Assistance Loan. This is perhaps an option for subsequent pension interventions
should a larger operation be required. Processing time and size mitigated against this alternative.
3.    Adjustable Program Loan (APL) or investment Loan. Size, processing, and uncertainty regarding
the subsequent steps rendered the larger APL, a less attractive alternative. The cost of the state pension
diagnostics, reform simulations and institutional framework proposals should not exceed $10-20 million.
Also, the Bank would not undertake the huge financial obligations associated with implementation of
pension reforms in the States. A single state loan would also be less attractive as it would cost too little
for Phases #1-3 and too much for implementing pension reform. And it would have the added drawback
that no lessons would be available for replication in other states for 2-3 years.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Pension Reform--Argentina          Pension Reform                S              S
idem                               Pension Reform TA             S              S
Pension Reform--Bolivia             Fin. Markets and             S               S
Pension Reform
Pension Reform--Hungary             Pension Administration       S               U
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank interventions in the area of pension reform have been limited to a few investment operations
targeting national systems. This operation is different because
* It is a LIL and only a few have been done to date in the Bank
* It has very limited, generic objectives, namely providing resources for States to pursue
diagnoses and elaboration of reform proposals
* It makes use of new Bank software (PROST) that has been tested in only a few countries
* It targets autonomous states in the federated Brazilian system.
The experience of Bank practitioners and findings documented in "Perspectives on Technical Assistance
Loans" (CODE98-4) provide useful lessons:



-8 -
(i) Need to upgrade data bases in order to have a sound basis for diagnostics and simulations.
Brazilian state pension data bases are unreliable. This will be addressed in phase one through the
allocation of consulting funds to states to upgrade a representative sample of sufficient size to allow for
actuarial analysis.
(ii) Need to provide adequate technical assistance and resources to ensure relatively unsophisticated
practitioners can carry out and take ownership of technically demanding diagnoses and elaborate
reform proposals having tested various scenarios. This includes both pension reform theory and
practice and PROST/simulation methodologies. Also, competent state pension staff must be chosen
and due diligence done to avoid a situation where beneficiaries move too quickly into PROST-based
reform simulations before sound assumptions have been formulated and staff adequately trained.
Quality control is essential, especially as PROST is a Bank product and there is a risk of the Bank's
name being invoked tojustify unsound results.
MPAS based "trainers" will be instructed intensively in pension reform, PROST, and Visual Basic and
will be available to assist the states in all phases of the Project. Two state officials will also be trained in
PROST and pension reform. States will receive funding to contract consultants for this work and a series
of workshops will be held on various aspects of pension management and reform during the three year
period. Also, an ample supervision budget will be provided to ensure that Bank pension reform experts
can help guide the states, especially in the first diagnostic and reform exercises carried out by the more
advanced states. Finally, MPAS Technical Unit staff will formally vet participants, TORs and the quality
of diagnostics and simulations as part of Project conditionality.
(iii) Properly identify the criticalparameters, their impact,and the magnitude of the financial burdens
implicit in proposals.
The comibination of PROST, pension reform training, MPAS and Bank technical assistance and
workshops should enable states to identify critical parameters, run sound simulations and dimension the
financial burdens involved in pension reform.
(iv) Ensure that (a) there is ownership in the Federal and state governments and a willingness to engage
the opposition and push through reforms, (b) the 'owner' of the data base/pension management
supports the exercise, (c) the process is participatory and amply disseminated/debated and
stakeholders' interests are identified and addressed, and (d) campaigns are undertaken to build
constituency supportfor the reform effort.
To participate in the Project and pass from one phase to the next, states must agree to disseminate
findings and hold workshops in order to hear from stakeholders. Finance is provided in the Project for
publications and workshops in each state for each phase. Given the sensitive political issues involved,
these components will also be designed to build state-wide constituencies by demonstrating the
consequences of delaying reforms. It is possible that more resources will need to be budgeted to develop
campaigns in support of reforms in some states.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Finance Minister has endorsed the project, which was given to a key Executive Secretary to task
manage. MPAS has now a major technical role and is in the process of constituting a permanent
Technical Unit to assist the Ministry of Finance with the technical aspects of the Project, monitor state
data, and provide PROST and technical assistance on a continuing basis. The Project was presented in
two workshops sponsored by the Ministry of Finance for Secretaries of Finance and Administration and
officials. Individual conversations and phone interviews with 9 of the leading states and a two hour



-9 -
meeting with 4 of these confirmed widespread interest. The Federal Government has agreed to put the
Project on a fast track despite the election cycle and budget restrictions. The Government is pushing hard
to gain approval of the Constitutional Amendment addressing pension reform and States are looking
seriously at setting up pension funds -- a few lhave already done so. In Bahia, $400 million from
privatization revenues was put into a pension fund and some $300 million will be allocated in Ceara.
Finally, continuing Bank dialogue with the Government and states involved in State Reform/Privatization
loans as well as frequent newspaper and journal articles affirming the need to address the state fiscal and
pension crises affirm the high level of interest in pension reform.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project':
* The Bank, as purveyor of PROST and international best practice in pension reform, is well
placed to address state pension re:Form systematically across states and on the requisite
technical/professional level.
* The Bank, with Government support, can bring together states in a single operation.
* The Government has largely kept at arms-length as it has no legal responsibilities or rights
and is concerned that it will be sadldled with the states' fiscal burden. The Bank can help to
forge an MPAS/state link.
-  Bank prestige and its 'honest broker' reputation can help states to present their proposals and
build reform constituencies.
It is hoped for the above reasons, that the Project will become the centerpiece of a Federal and State
campaign to address pension reform.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[NA ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % [NA ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ ] Other (Specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 5): [NA] NPV=US$       million; FRR=     %
Fiscal impact: [NA]
3. Technical: [NA]
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Ministry of Finance, MPAS, MARE; individual states through their pension agencies
b. Project management: Ministry of Finance wiith technical assistance from MPAS
5. Social: [NA]
6. Environmental assessment:  [NA] Environmental Category  []A   []B    [] C
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced,; if
participatory approach not used, describe whv not applicable]:



-10-
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
State Governments--Finance and Administration: All of the key states--those with large civil service,
pension obligations, and privatization revenues--have manifested their interest in the Project. State
officials were advised of the operation and given the opportunity to comment in two Ministry of Finance
sponsored meetings--a third dedicated exclusively to pension reform took place June 17-18. A meeting
was held with representatives from Parana, Sao Paulo, Bahia, and Para to go over the design of the
operation and verify whether it satisfied beneficiary needs--which proved to be the case. The primary
findings of these meetings that have been incorporated into the design of the Project are:
* Funding will have to be provided to upgrade a representative data base sample in order to be
able to run simulations. This will cost $100,000 and take 10-12 months/state. Even in the
best states data bases are highly suspect.
*   Even in the few states who have advanced on pension reform there is strong interest in
obtaining a "second opinion" and training in PROST.
*   Flexibility will need to be maintained in Phase #2 as some institutional framework work
from Phase #3 will likely need to be done to better define reform simulations
*   There is need for a study on Pension Fund Management best practices. This is now part of
the Project.
*   There is tremendous concern among states for how pension obligations will be financed--a
few states already have projections of the financial burden associated with reform. The
Bank has said that the amounts involved are much too large to be resolved through Bank
lending and that alternative solutions must be sought. A parallel Bank study will be
conducted on this topic.
-   There is considerable difference among states regarding the organization, staffing, technical
capability, and budgeting of pension management units. A survey has been designed and
distributed to obtain basic information and care will need to be taken in dealing with
individual states and their needs.
b. Other key stakeholders: State Civil Servants
Recent defeat of a Constitutional Reform component dealing with reform of age/eligibility attests to the
fact that pension is a politically sensitive issue. The Project is not proposing any specific line of reform or
model but rather providing technical assistance and financial support to states so that they can develop
their own proposals. In the process, the Project will require as a condition for any state to pass from one
phase to another, that the quality of work is vetted by the MPAS TU and results are disseminated through
publication and public workshops which will be financed by the operation. Bank supervision of this
component: should help ensure that stakeholders are informed and will be heard.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A. States
The Project will require that states legally establish/strengthen pension units with adequately trained staff
(including those trained through the Project) and appropriate resources. A small computer hardware and
software package will also be provided by the Project to ensure capacity. This will be covered in the state
agreements ("convenios") with the MF and constitute a condition for moving to Phase #2. True
sustainability will come about if and when states perforn the diagnostics, discover the danger to their
pension systems and fiscal situation, and feel compelled to move through phases #2-3 and implement
pension reforms. If this doesn't happen the Project will have failed.



- 11 -
B. Government
(i) MPAS. An administrative order is expected that will establish a permanent technical unit to monitor
state pensions and provide technical assistance to states as needed. Such an order and funding for the unit
can, at any time, be withdrawn and there is the risk that once the Project is finished States will no longer
want to liaise and exchange data with MPAS--they have no legal obligation to do so. Hence
sustainability will most likely come about as, a function of the MPAS unit providing continuing assistance
to the States through PROST and pension reform advice, by coordinating updates of PROST, and through
promoting workshops over the course of the Project.
(ii) MPAS/FAZENDA. The three studies to be carried out under the auspices of the operation
(complementary legislation to implement Constitutional reforms, best practice in pension fund
management, and evaluation of outstanding Federal/States pension liabilities) will have a direct impact on
pension reform as they address pending issues and matters of great importance to the states and the
Government.



-12 -
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
PROST will prove less user friendly than   M    3-4 MPAS based staff will be intensively
originally expected and adaptation will be      trained in PROST and Visual Basic and
cumbersome, especially for weaker states.       given travel budget so that they can assist
individual states. A first adaptation of
PROST for Brazil will be made prior to
training State participants. Completion of
PROST pilots for the INSS system and
Parana State are contemplated prior to start-
up. An ample supervision budget has been
provided to ensure that Bank experts can get
involved as needed Phase #1 workshops are
planned.
Inadequate quality control will result in poorly    M    Training will emphasize quality. The MPAS
trained state participants, unsound assumptions  TU will vet participants, TORs, and results
and questionable simulations; the Bank's name   of diagnostics and reform proposals
will be invoked in support of unsound proposals  (successful completion are Project
especially as PROST is a Bank product           conditions) as well as provide technical
assistance at each step. Consultants will be
funded for each state in each phase. An
adequate supervision budget will be
provided to ensure Bank experts participate
and adequate quality control is being
exercised.
States will complete Phase #1 diagnostics but    M    PROST's robustness, demonstrated during
will be reluctant--for stakeholder/political    the diagnostic phase, plus the offer of
reasons-- to undertake serious Phase #2         funding for consultant help should be strong
elaboration of reform proposals and subsequent  inducements to complete Phase #2.
institutional steps required to implement       Workshops and dissemination will be part of
pension reform. Ownership will be lacking.      campaigns to build a reform constituency.
States will delay moving into Phase #3 owing  M    As part of the Project the Govemment and
to lack of Project support, timing, and         Bank are required to come up with a next
uncertainty regarding how to address large      step proposal that could be a second LIL for
funding obligations.                            Phase #3 or other intervention. The Bank
ESW proposed for "best practices" in
dealing with transition costs and the Project
studies on "best practices" in pension
management will lead the way.



-13-
Start-up will be delayed owing to (i) the    S   Government officials think signing and
political cycle and/or weaker states taking more  effectiveness prior to October would be
time to move through Phase #1, and (ii) lackc of  unlikely. Hence, if retroactive finance is
retroactive finance to train "trainers" in MPAS  forthcoming, this interim will need to be
technical unit.                                   used judiciously to train "trainers" at MPAS.
EDI and retroactive finance should be
available courses for state officials must be
ready for January-February of next year;
smaller components that can be initiated
sooner such as studies, preparation of
bidding documents for computer packages,
studies, and for Phase #1 contracting of
consultants will be done during this period
Government Decrees 2451 and 2384 limiting   M    These decrees have just been lifted for FY98.
expenditures for consultants and training will   Main expenditures will begin in CY99 and
constrain project implementation                 care must be taken that similar decrees are
not promulgated in CY99.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"        The MPAS technical unit has 3 years to
prove to the States and MPAS that it can be
MPAS permanent technical unit will not      M    of use for liaising and monitoring state
continue beyond the Project period owing to      pensions, providing technical assistance, and
budget constraints, state reticence, lack of legal  as a repository of PROST knowledge,
mandate                                           organizer of workshops and forums for
exchanges and disseminator of information
on pensions. The administrative order
creating the unit has been prepared by
MPAS.
States' permanent pension units will not    M    The Project has 3 years to prove the wisdom
continue beyond the Project period in the         of having such units. The diagnostic and
desired, strengthened form.                       elaboration of reforms should help to
consolidate understanding of the scope and
importance of professional units.
Cost under (over) estimate of work to be    M    The Project does not permit detailed analysis
financed under Phases #1-2                        of likely consultant costs on a state-by-state
basis during preparation. Flexibility will be
maintained to allow for reallocations as
needed. Given assumptions, cost under runs
are far more likely.
Overall Risk Rating   M   This is mitigated by the fact that loan size is
only $5 million. If the Project is not
working funds can easily be reallocated
between Phases or the Project can be
scrapped and a new effort begun if justified.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 14-
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Pension reform is controversial and there are many and vocal stakeholders as witnessed by the Government's recent
defeat in Congress on the Constitutional Amendment component dealing with age/eligibility. The Bank is NOT
proposing any model or specific action--it is up to the States to diagnose their situation and elaborate proposals. The
Project's dissemination components will ensure stakeholders become aware of the work in progress and are heard.
Controversy is inevitable. But one of the Project objectives is to disseminate findings in order to build a
constituency for reform.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Note thatf the MPAS Technical Unit will provide a technical opinion to the PCU regarding whether the
conditions described below have been satisfactorily fulfilledI The PCU will render the final judgement
regardingfulfillment of all conditions.
Effectiveness Conditions.
1. MF will formally establish the Project Coordinating Unit
2. MPAS will create and operationalize a Technical Unit with qualified staff nominated for training and
an adequate budget to carry out its work. This unit will:
(a) support Project implementation through vetting technical work, providing technical assistance
and organizing work shops, monitoring state pension data, etc.,
(b) present a work and financial program for carrying out the attributions of the Technical Unit,
(It is expected that MPAS will constitute a permanent unit with these attributions by the end of
the project period.)
3. MF will finalize a Bank approved agreement ("convenio") with the MPAS regarding its Project roles
and responsibilities.
4. MF will elaborate a Bank approved model agreement ("convenio") that states must enter into in order
to participate in the Project. This agreement will require states, inter alia, to
(a) Follow the conditions and procedures set out in the Operational Manual
(b) Elaborate and adhere to a work and financial program that will ensure successful participation
in the Project and that has been vetted by the MPAS TU and demonstrate that adequate resources
exist to carry out these programs.
(c) Faithfully complete the requirements set out in each phase of the Project phases entered into
including contracting of appropriate consultant support, producing and disseminating (including
thlrough workshops) reports on findings, identifying appropriate staff for Project training and
participation in workshops and other Project activities.
(d) Establish and maintain a project executing agency that could be a part of the state pension
agency and that would require a Coordinator and staff responsible for financial administration
and technical implementation of the Project.
(e) Indicate two employees who are qualified to receive and use the training that will be provided
and who are state civil servants.
(f) Incorporate by the end of Phase #1 (and as a condition for moving into Phase #2) Project
trained staff and Project computers and software formally into the state agency responsible for
administering pensions.
(g) Formally establish, by the conclusion of Phase #2 (and as a condition for moving into Phase
#3) a permanent state pension agency duly constituted with appropriate mandate, staffing
('including Project trained staff), resources (including Project provided hardware and software)
and budget to effectively manage pensions and pension reform.
(h) Be participating in the "Programa Nacional de Apoio a Administracao Fiscal para os Estados
E3rasileiros" (an IDB loan) with satisfactory implementation performance.
(i) Retum a completed survey questionnaire.
(jj) Agree to the sharing of data and infornation with MPAS on the state's pension system.



-15 -
(k) Be eligible to receive federal on-lent funds in accordance with existing legislation covering
"inadimplencia", INSS and FGTS obligations.
5. Financial Management. The PCU will fully implement all Bank recommendations regarding financial
systems, organization, and management.
6. Operations Manual. The PCU presented a draft of a Bank approved manual at negotiations and it will
be finalized prior to effectiveness.
Other (Note that conditions will be elaborated in the "convenios " and Operations Manual)
1.    Approval of First Disbursement Undler Phase #1. In order for states to receive the first
disbursements under Phase #I they shall have concluded "convenios" with the Ministry of Finance and
continue to satisfy all of the relevant requisites set out in the "convenios"; they will also have established
their TUs.
2.    Approval to Pass from Phase # 1 to P'hase #2. In order for states to proceed to Phase #2, they
must continue to satisfy the agreements set out in the "convenio" and the conditions required for the First
Disbursement. In addition, they must have successfully completed all of the requirements for Phase #1
which will include, inter alia, the following unless waived by the PCU
(a) Have produced a 'clean' data sample adequate for extracting demographic data for use in
PROST and/or any other simulation software in use;
(b) Have 2 staff who have completed Project training in pension reform and PROST;
(c) Have received and made operational the Project package of computer hardware and software
and PROST;
(d) Have participated in all of the PFroject sponsored workshops organized by the MF (PCU) and
MPAS (TU);
(e) Have successfully carried out a diagiiostic of the pension system using PROST or whatever
other pension software in use so long as it is vetted by the TU;
(f) Have satisfactorily disseminated a report of the results to stakeholders and conducted a
workshop to transmit and debate the results;
(g) Have incorporated Project trained staff and Project provided hardware/software into the state
pension management unit.
(h) Continue to share state data with MPAS as needed.
3. Approval to Passfrom Phase #2 to Phase #3. On an exceptional basis, advanced states will be
supported in their Phase #3 efforts to design an institutional framework. It should also be noted that some
part of this work may need to be included in the Phase #2 activities, in which case they will be funded
under Phase #2. In order to pass to Phase #3, states will need to have satisfied or continue to satisfy all
previous conditions set out in the "convenios", and the conditions for First Disbursement and for passing
to Phase #2. In addition, states will have satisfied the following conditions unless waived by the PCU
(a) Have used PROST and/or other accepted methodologies to design a satisfactory reform
proposal that has been vetted by the MPAS TU with regard to simulations of critical parameters
and other technical requirements;
(b) Have satisfactorily disseminated the Phase #2 results and proposal and convened a workshop
so that stakeholders will have ample opportunity to debate the findings
(c) Have a legally established, perrnanent state pension entity with appropriate mandate, staffing
(including Project trained staff), resources (including Project provided hardware/software) and
budget to administer the pension system and reforms.
Note that funding for Phases #1-2-3 has been budgeted predicated on 25, 22, and 7 states qualifying
respectively. The Borrower, together with ithe Bank, may reallocate funding between phases and
activities in accordance with what will best meet project objectives as befits a LIL.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[NA ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start



-16 -
of project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[ok ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. Procurement will be relatively simple. The intention of the Bank and
Government at this point is that the TORs and short lists for the studies be prepared as a condition of
effectiveness. Also, model procurement documents will be preparedfor the states so that they can
contract the work required to upgrade a sample of the data base. Finally, the training course will be sole
source owing to its uniqueness. Arrangements for a January-February training course are underway and
will almost certainly involve EDI and Bank staff.
[ok I The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
I]  This project complies with all apple Bank policies.
[signature]      6kfL44,    V(L
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Chris Parel
[signature]
Acting Country Director: Patricio MilIl;



-17 -
Annex 1
Brazil: State Pension Sysl:ems ReformTechnical Assistance Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve the fiscal     - At least 15 states vill  TM and PCU will monitor  States will complete
situation of state       complete Phase #1 and 10   these basic data         Phases #1 and #2 and this
governments through       states will complete FPhase                        will provide the necessary
pension reform           #2                                                  impetus to implement
pension reforms;
- Studies of complementary  idem
legislation and pension                            Findings and study
management 'best practice"                         recommendations will
completed plus Bank ESW                            influence implementation
on financing reform and
.'portability" .
Project Development                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
A. States
1. Establish permanent and  Decrees formalizing units    TM and PCU aided by  Trained staff will remain in
adequately resourced      where they don't exist;  MPAS Technical Unit will   the state units and
pension units             strengthening of exisiting  monitor using initial survey   resourcing and mandate will
units through addition of LIL  to benchmark        continue beyond the period
trained personnel and                              of the LIL
computer equipment
idem; also that new
2. Train 2 officials/state in    2 officials/state complete    idem          employees can be trained to
PROST/simulations and     Phase #1 training and                              the same levels after the LIL
pension reform            participate in workshops                           ends through MPAS
intervention
3. Diagnose and           Diagnostic satisfactorily  MPAS Technical Unit will    States will have the capacity
disseminate/ debate current  completed, report published  determine whether  to contract and manage the
state pension situation in    and disseminated,    diagnosis and dissemination  effort to upgrading of
Phase #1 and build        workshops held in states to  is satisfactory       sample data basis and carry
constituency for reform   disseminate and debate                             out the diagnosis using LIL
results                                            trained officials, consultants,
and MPAS and Bank
technical assistance; results
aptly disseminated will build
reform constituency despite
vested interests. Some
states may need more
resources for this work
4. Elaborate and          Technically sound pension
disseminate/ debate      reform proposal is        idem                      idem for Phase #2 and #3
pension reform proposal in   elaborated and
Phase #2 and on an        disseminated and results
exceptional basis Phase #3   debated
institutional framework
proposals
B. Federal Government                                                        Permanence of unit and
Establishment of pernanent  TM, PCU, MPAS Technical   mandate; Government &
5. Permanent, adequately   unit with appropriate    Unit                     states will agree on
resourced and trained     mandate and resources;                             desirability of such a unit
MPAS unit to monitor and    number and training of staff
provide technical assistance
to states



Dissemination of best
6. Improved sub national    Eventual improvement in  MPAS Technical Unit      practice will result in Federal
pension fund management  legislation and management                           or state
of pension funds                                   legislation/regulatory
changes despite vested
interests, inertia
7. Satisfactory           Complementary legislation    MPAS Technical Unit    Passage of Constitutional
Complementary Legislation   adopting study                                    Amendment and adoption
making use of international  recommendations                                 of Project study
best practice.                                                               recommendations
8. Clarity on Federal     Government adopt a
pension obligations to states  position vis-a-vis obligations  PCU/MPAS       Long standing problem will
based upon study findings                          eventually be solved despite
cost
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
States
Phase #1
1. State pension units    Decree, and               MPAS TU/PCU               Sustainability
formalized/strengthened   operationalization
2. 2 officials/state LIL  Officials trained         MPAS TU/PCU               Turnover can be countered
trained                                                                       by training new employees
Technically sound diagnosis  MPAS Technical Unit    States can manage
3. State pension diagnosis &  in states;                                      exercise; good will in
dissemination/debate      dissemination/work shops                            dissemination
Phase #2
4. State pension reform   Technically sound proposal;  MPAS Technical Unit   idem
proposal & dissemination/    dissemination & workshops
debate
Federal Government
1. Permanent MPAS        Decree; operationalization    PCU, MPAS Technical Unit  Sustainability
Technical Unit with       with adequate resourcing for
adequate resourcing       3-4 staff
Study dissemination can
2. Pension fund           Study completed and       MPAS Technical Unit       build sufficient constituency
management improvement   disseminated; actual change                         despite vested interests
influenced by study results  in legislation, management,
& dissemination          regulation;
Passage of adequate
Study cornpleted;        MPAS Technical Unit       Constitutional Amendment
3. Complementary          Complementary Legislation
legislation               incorporates study
incorporates study        proposals
proposals
Study completed; Ministries  PCU, MPAS Technical IJnit  Competent study
4. Clarity on Federal     clear on obligations
pension obligations to
states.



- 19 -
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                          (Components to Outputs)
components:              component)
Unclear whether a
1. 3-4 MPAS Technical Unit $550,760 (includes training   MPAS TU            consultant will need to be
based staff trained in   in US)                                              contracted or Technical Unit
PROST and Pension                                                            based staff will all be
Reform with resources to                                                     MPAS/seconded
assist states reform efforts                                                 Government staff which
a. Training                                                                  would result in savings;
b. Travel budgets
Phase #1
2. Training of 2         $600,000 for 50 trainees  MPAS TU vets qualifications  Some training might be in
officials/state plus                                                         Brazil if feasible and cost
workshops                                                                    effective
a. Training
b. Travel
$375,000 (1 workshop in  MPAS TU vets diagnostic,   The assumption of 25 states
3. Workshops             each of 25 states +       dissemination plan and    is likely optimistic
dissemination + 2 MPAS   organizes 2 workshops
workshops
The assumption of 20 states
4. Consultancy for        $2,200,000 (22 states @  PCU/MPAS vets terms of   is untested and may be
upgrading a sample of    $100,000)                 reference, price          optimistic
pension data base for use in
generating actuarial data                          MPAS TU vets states
$530,000 (25 beneficiaries   procurement
5. Hardware & software    @ $20,000)
packages
$76,800                  MPAS TU manages
6. Technical assistance
from MPAS Technical Unit--
travel and per diems
$125,000                 PCU
7. Air fare for State officials
being trained in US
$85,600                  PCU/MPAS TU               22 beneficiaries untested
8. Workshops organized by                                                    and may be optimistic if
PCU/MPAS                                                                     fewer than 22 states
complete this phase costs
Phase #2                                                                     will be reduced
$2,200,000 (22 beneficiaries  MPAS TU vets TORs, cost
1. Consultancy for       @ $130,000)
elaborating a pension
reform proposal
$370,000                 MPAS vets proposal and
dissemination campaign;
2. Dissemination and                               organizes own work shops
Workshops--one in each
state and two organized by
MPAS                     $76,8000                  MPAS TU manages
3. Technical assistance
from MPAS Technical Unit--
travel and per diems



-20 -
Phase #3
1. Consultancy for        $1,050,000 (7 states)     PCU/MPAS TU vets TOR,   7 states may be optimistic
elaborating institutional                           cost, PCU approves
framework
2. Workshops--one in each   $187,400                MPAS TU vets dissemina-
state and 2 in Brasilia                            tion proposals; does own
workshops
3. Technical Assistance   $13,300                   MPAS manages
from MPAS Technical Unit--
travel and per diems
Studies
1. Complementary          $116,000 (includes        MPAS TU does
Legislation               dissemination @$20, 000)    TOR/manages; PCU
approves
2. Federal/State Pension  $200,750                  MPAS TU & STN do
Obligations                                         TORs/manage; PCLI
approves
$116,000 (includes        MPAS does TOR/manages;
3. Management of Pension   dissemination @ $20,000  PCU approves
Funds
4. Publication of prior   $20,000                   MPAS TU/PC
workshop results on models
Supervision
PCU Supervision Costs for   $162,000 (one employee @   PCU manages
3 years                   $4,500/month)



-21 -
Annex 2
Brazil: State Pension Systems Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$ 0.6 million (total cost of component)
Phase: Start-Up
* Contract and train MPAS TU based trainers/consultants who will provide technical assistance on PROST and
pension reform to states
* Adapt PROST to Brazilian reality and translate PROST materials.
Project Component 2 - US$ 7.8 million (total cost of component)
Phase #1
*  Train Federal and state employees in pension management and reform and in PROST
* Upgrade sample state social security data bases in order to extract actuarial data for simulations
* Provide consultant support to assist states complete a PROST/simulation diagnosis of their current pension
system
* Convene workshops for Project participants to exchange experiences, discuss issues, and hear of best practice
* Disseminate results and convene workshops in each state in order that stakeholders can learn about and
debate diagnostic results
*  Provide hardware/software packages to ensure adequate and dedicated computer equipment available.
Phase #2:
* Provide consultant support to assist states complete simulations and develop pension reform proposals
* Convene workshops for Project participants to exchange experiences, discuss issues, and learn of best practice
*  Disseminate results and convene workshops in each state in order that stakeholders can learn about and
debate proposals
Phase #3:
- Provide consultant support to assist a few states complete design of an institutional framework to implement
Reform proposals
* Convene a workshop for Project participants to exchange experiences, discuss issues, and learn of best
practices
- Disseminate results and convene workshops in each Phase #3 state in order that stakeholcders can learn about
and debate proposals
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.7 million (total cost of component)
Government Activities
* Studies & dissemination: (i) complementary legislation for the constitutional amendment, (ii) best case
Pension fund management, (iii) Federal pension obligations
* Dissemination of International Workshop results
* Design of an information system linking MI'AS with states' pension data bases
* Supervision, under the PCU, of Project transactions
Contingency - US$0.9 million



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
The following reflects how the World Bank project team and Brazil PCU will manage critical events on the critical path with focus on start-up and Phase #I which will account for
the first 1-1/2 to two years.
Critical Path Event                                Proposed Event Management                       Responsible
1. Send the head of MPAS TU to the Harvard/EDI   EDI will finance the $8,500 registration; MPAS will finance air fare and    MPAS and Bank
pension seminar                               incidentals
2. Train intensively 2 TU staff in July/August in    EDI will finance; Bank is responsible for arranging Bank    Bank will arrange for training
PROST/Visual Basic                            staff/consultants to train TU staff--work in progress. MPAS has    program
identified staff.
3. Train intensively 2 additional TU staff in  This may not occur prior to project effectiveness owing to limitations on   Bank will arrange training
PROST/Visual Basic                            retroactive and Bank sourced finance. MPAS will need to identify and  program.
incorporate these staff into the TU team.
4. Develop training course (pension theory/reform    EDI is task managing this task. The program is planned for Jan.-Feb.,  Bank; EDT task management;
and intensive PROST) for an estimated 30-40 state   1999. This course may be given in conjunction with Wharton.
pension officials.
5. Pre Effectiveness Activities                All of these activities will need to be prepared in the period July-  Bank, PCU, TU
A. Finalize and distribute Operational Manual    November since Loan Effectiveness is expected around end Nov. and
to states                                     training of the first states' cohort should be Jan-Feb. Hence the MPAS
B. Identification of states' participants in the  UT, PCU, and Bank Team will need to develop and distribute materials
training course                                and urge states to prepare for Effectiveness, at which time they would
C. Prepare state "convenios" for signature  provide the necessary documentation to qualify to participate in the
D. States develop Work Programs             Project.
E. States formalize Technical Units
6. Translation of training materials           To be determined. These materials will be required for the Jan.-Feb.  Bank and the PCU will need
training program                                                  to manage this
7. State agreements/'convenios' with MF        MF will elaborate model 'convenios' and in the period July-November  MF will do this.
establishing conditions for state participation in the   will formalize them with states (subject to any electoral cycle or other
loan                                          judicial restrictions)
8. Hire or transfer MPAS staff required for the  (i) MPAS has identified two civil servants and is arranging to have them    MPAS
MPAS TU                                        seconded to MPAS for the duration of the project.
(ii) MPAS will need to identify two consultants: an actuarial/pension
expert and an information technology specialist by Loan effectiveness--
they will need to participate in the January-February training program.
9. Complete the MF PCU team and systems
a. Satisfy the Bank's financial management    A qualified Bank staff has already diagnosed the PCU's financial  The PCU must finalize
requirements as a condition of effectiveness and  management program and required certain things to be done. Follow-up   systems in accordance with
hire a someone to manage loan transactions.    on this will be carried out by the new Brasilia based FM specialist.  Bank requisites. Bank must
The PCU must identify a consultant to supervise loan transactions during  assist the PCU and verify that
the period prior to effectiveness                                 this work is satisfactorily
completed.



The PCU/MF will hire the
staff.
b. Ensure procurement adequately covered    The consultant the PCU will contract in (9-a) above will also be trained in  The PCU/MF is responsible.
procurement
c. Become proficient in Bank disbursement   Morag van Praag will work with the PCU in June and the CMU based  The Bank will provide
procedures and regulations                   disbursement specialist will continue to support this effort. Competence   technical assistance. the PCU
in Bank disbursement procedures must be attained by Effectiveness. It    must operationalize.
must be functioning properly for the critical training course component to
be completed in Jan-Feb, 1999._
10. Initiate procurement operations          A. Studies. TORs and short lists should be nearly completed or  MPAS is responsible for all
completed by effectiveness for the three studies (i) complementary  three studies although the
legislation, (ii) best practice in pension regulation and management, and   financial aspects of the third
(iii) Government pension obligations to states and municipalities.  study are to be managed by
Depending upon progress of the Constitutional amendment, (i) should be  the MF.
initiated very soon.                                            __                _
B Hardware/Roftware- Daeniinn on hnw this will be procured arnd  MF needs to tAke +.he lead.
preparation of bidding documents should be readied by effectiveness.  The Bank will need to assist
with bidding documents and
the specs of required
hardware/software.
C. Upgrading Data Bases. The PCU and MPAS mus resolve whether   MF must take the lead.
this will be centrally procured or decentralized to the States. A model
contract based upon work done in Parana will need to be updated and
adapted. How this work will be carried out in the states needs to be
resolved. The participation of MARE and others needs to be explored to
verify if an upgrading of the data base in every state is feasible. The data
base upgrade will take at least 6-8 months and must feed into the
diagnostic.



DETAILED PROJECT COMIPONENT ACTIVITIES AND COSTS
Activity                  Description                                       Cost Explanation         Cost          Total Cost
Calulation
I. Start-up: Training MPAS  Retroactive finance may be required
TU StaI.
1.1 Air Fares             1 economy class Brasilia-Boston-Brasilia         $2,500x3 for fares       3x$2,500              $7,500
2 economy class fares Brasilia-Washington-Brasilia
1.2 Per Diems             28 days in Washington for 2 TU staff             $210/day ($150 for hotel   28x2x$210          $11,760
and $60 for per diem)
1.3 Training Programn    Harvard/EDI course on pension theory/reform from  $8,500                   $8,500                $8,500
July 6-17 in Boston for head of UT
Intensive training for 2 TU   Duration of about 4 weeks in July-August
staff in PROST in
Washington
1.4 Bank Staff/Consultants   A number of Bank staff and Bank consultants will  The estimated total cost    $10,000        $10,000
likely be involved in training                   for 4 weeks would be
$10,000
1.5 Miscellaneous         Miscellaneous costs associated with training     $1,000                   $1,000                 $1,000
Administrative Costs
Sub-Total            $38,760
II. Additional
Strengthening of TU &
Training for MPAS TU
Staff
11.1 Actuarial Consultant    Contracting 1 actuarial consultant to assist the states  I consultant x 3 years x  1 x 36 x  $288,000
and the MPAS for 3 years with state diagnostics and  $8,000/month         $8,000
simulations
11.2 Consultant in        Contracting of one specialist in MIS and programming    I Consultant x 3 years x    $162,000   $162,000
Informatica              to design, implement and maintain an integrated data    $4,500/month
bank of state pension data and to assist in
PROST/Visual Basic programming for states
11.3 Translation and      Translation of roughly 200 pages of English text on  Estimated $15,000    $15,000               $15,000
reproduction of materials    PROST/pensions to Portuguese
11.4 Continuation of training  EDI is designing a 3 week training course in pension  4 TU staff at an estimated   4 x $12,000  $48,000
reform and intensive PROST that may include Wharton.  $ 12,000/staff
Likely date is Jan-Feb. 1999
11.5 Air Fare             Air fare for EDI training                        4x$2,500                 4x$2,500              $10,000
11.6 Repeat of intensive  Similar to training provided in (I) above for up to 3                                      (Items 11.7-11
PROST training in         weeks; note that these expenses may be reduced or                                                may be
Washington for 2 more TU   eliminated through training in Brasilia                                                    eliminated or
staff                    I_I                                                                       I             I       reduced)



11.7 Air Fare            Economy class Brasilia-Washington-Brasilia for 2 TU    2x$2,500           2x$2,500              $5,000
staff
II.8 Per Diem            28 days @ $210/day                               2x21x$210                2x21x$210            $11,760
II.9 Bank Staff/Consultants  Bank staff and consultants will provide intensive  Estimated at       $10,000              $10,000
PROST training of up to 4 weeks                  $10,000/month
11.10                    Gastos administrativos                           $1,000                   $1,000                $1,000
Sub-Total          $550,760
III. Phase #1            The first, 'diagnostic' phase of the PARSEP program
for state officials
III.I Training of State  Training of 1-2 staff (assume 2; excluindo AC, RR, RO   2 trainees x 25 states x  2x25x$12,00  $600,000
Officials                but including DF, MARE)                          $12,000 estimated cost   0
(Note that course costs
and participants may be
significantly reduced)
111.2 Air Fare           Round trip economy class air fares to Philadelphia or    2 x 25 x $2,500  $125,000            $125,000
Washington including domestic Brazilian fares
111.3 Data Base Upgrading   States will contract actuarial consultants to assist in this  22 x $ 100,000  $2,200,000  $2,200,000
-ork;
assume $100,000/state;
(SP, PR, MARE will not                                                    t M
need)                                                                    Lu
III.4 Air fares and per  Once the data base upgrade is done TU staff will assist  23 states, 2 visits /state,    2x2x8x(600+  $76,800
diems for technical      states to perform diagnostics using PROST/simulation    each trip including 3 states  12x150)
assistance by MPAS TU    models                                           and average air fare of
staff                                                                      $600 plus 12 per diems of
$150
III.5 Brasilia Workshops  2 MPAS sponsored workshops for the States to     2 meetings x 2 state    2x2x23x($50          $85,600
exchange experiences on actuarial, diagnostic and  participants x 23 states  0+2x$15) +
reform experiences with outside experts          (except DF, MARE) x     2x$6,000
(air fare of $500 + 2 per
diem @ $150) +
specialist(s) @ $6,000
III.6 Dissemination of    1 workshop/state plus publication and dissemination of  25 states x $15,000/state   25 x $15,000  $375,000
Results                  results to stakeholder to build constituencies
(in some states larger
efforts may be required)
III.7 Hardware and       Equipment to ensure that state pension agencies have    package estimated at  26 x $20,000    $530,000
Software                  adequate resources to implement PARSEP and carry  $20,000 for 23 states plus   + $10,000
out pension work: 2 computers, a printer, plus software  MARE, MPAS, DF +
10,000 for MPAS laptops
for TU staff
Sub-Total         $3,922,400
IV. Phase #2              Simulations and reform proposal                         =____



IV. I States contract    Consultants will help with simulations and design of  22 states @ $100,000/state  22 x      $2,200,000
consultants              reform proposals                                                          $100,000
IV.2 Brasilia Workshop   One national workshop for states to exchange     Half of 111.6 above as   lx2x22               $41,200
information on experiences and get help on technical    there will be only one  ($800) +
issues firom pension experts; assumes 22 states  workshop                $6,000
IV.3 Dissemination       One workshop/state plus publication and dissemination   22 states x       22 x $15,000        $330,000
of simulation results and the proposal           $15,000/dissemination
campaign; it may be
necessary to increase this
in some states
IV.4 Air Fares and Per   TU staff will assist states in adapting simulation  2 TU staff; 2 visits/state;   2x2x8(600+   $76,800
Diems for MPAS TU        models/PROST and simulating reforms              each visit includes 3 states  12x150)
Technical Assistance                                                      with air fare of $600 and
12 per diems @ $150
Sub-Total      $2,648,000.00
V. Phase #3              Design of institutional frameworks to support reforms
V.1 Contracting          An estimated 7 states will advance to this phase and  Consultants estimated (    7x $150,000  $1,050,000
Consultants              will require consultant support                  $150,000
V.2 Brasilia Workshop    One MPAS sponsored workshop to explore and discuss  Same as IV.2          lx2x22               $41,200
institutional framework with participation of expert(s)                  ($800)
+$6,000
V.3 Dissemination        One workshop/state plus publication and dissemination   7 states x        7x$15,000           $105,000
of proposals                                     $15,000/dissemination
campaign; it may be
necessary to increase this
in some states
V.4 MPAS TU Technical    The TU will also assist states during this phase and will  2 TU staff, I trip/state;  2xlx7x   $13,300
Assistance               require air fares + per diems                     with air fare @ $500 + 12  ($500 +
per diems @ $150        3x$150)
V.5 Wrap-Up Workshop      A wrap-up workshop will review the experience of  idem V.2               lx2x22($800          $41,200
PARSEP, evaluate results and propose next steps                          ) + $6,000
Sub-Total         $1,250,700
VI. Government Activities   Studies and Implementation Support
VI. I Study # 1-          Contracting a Brazilian specialist(s) to elaborate a study  I Consultant x 12 months   lxl2x$8,000  $116,000
Complementary Legislation  of complementary legislation required to operationalize   x R$8,000/month +  + $20,000
the Constitutional Pension Reform amendment      Dissemination of $20,000
VI.2 Study #2--Pension    Contracting one consultant(s), national or international,   I consultant x 12 months   lx12x$8,000  $116,000
Fund Management           to study best practices in pension fund regulation and    x R$8,000/month  + $20,000
management
Dissemination of $20,000



VI.3 Study #3-Federal    Contracting two consultants (?) to study financial  2 consultants x 12 months  2x12x$8,000   $192,000
Compensation Obligations   compensation obligations between the INSS and the  x R$8,000/month
States and Municipalities and ways of financing them; 1
consultant for MF and 1 for MPAS
VI.4 Travel              Air fare and per diems for the consultants who will do    5 trips for each consultant  (5x2x$500) +  $8,750
the studies                                     @ $500 and 2.5 per diems  (2.5x5x2x$l
valued at $150m for each   50)
trip
VI.5 Publication of Prior    Publication and dissemination of the results of the  $20,000          $20,000              $20,000
Seminar Results          International Workshop on "Modelos de Projecoes e
Simulacoes"
VI.6 Financial           Financing of a PCU staff to administer loan transactions  lx36 months x $4,500  $162,000      $162,000
Management/Procurement   and procurement for 3 years
-PCU
Sub-Total          $614,750
Swh-Total  Itfmc l_VI                                                                              Sinh-Tota SlE 9e-37n
___ _ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Items I-VI| 
Contingency                                                                                        Contingency         $904,630
(9%) G
Grand Total                                                                                        Grand Total    $10,0000,000



-28 -
Annex 3
Brazil: State Pension System Reform Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Start-Up and Training of MPAS Technical Unit Staff           0.4            0.2           0.6
Phase # --Training, Diagnostic, Workshops,                   2.9            1.1           4.0
Dissemination, Computers
Phase #2--]Pension Reform Proposal, Dissemination and        0.0            2.6           2.6
Workshops-
Phase #3--institutional Framework Proposal,                  0.7            0.6            1.3
Dissemination and Workshops
Government Studies, MPAS/States link, Supervision            0.6            0.0            0.6
Contingency
Total                                                          4.6             4.5           9.1
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                         0.4             0.5           0.9
Total Project Cost                                             5.0             5.0          10.0



-29-
Annex 6
Brazil: State Pension System Reform Technical Assistance Project
Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting/Auditing Arrangements
I. Procurement
1.1 The procurement of project components financed by the Bank loan, would be in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works, (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September
1997) and the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January 1997, revised September1997).
1.2 Procurement of Goods: There would be only one contract, costing only US$350,000 or more, for the
procurement of computer hardware and software. It would be awarded through Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedure. Although not envisaged, there may be a need to procure during project implementation some items
costing less than US$350,000 per contract but more than US$100,000, under national competitive bidding
procedures (NCB), and some items costing less than US$100,000 that would be procured on the basis of
national/international shopping procedures from at least three eligible suppliers. There would be no Works to be
procured under this project.
1.3 Selection of Consultant Services: consultant services worth more than US$100,000 would be selected in
accordance with Quality-Cost-Based Selection procedures (QCBS). Contracts for simple assignments not exceeding
the equivalent of US$100,000 may be awarded following Least Cost Selection procedures (LCS). Individual
consultants would be selected based upon their qualifications.
1.4 The Bank's Procurement Review. Prior Review. The Bank will review ex-ante the ICB bidding documents for
the procurement of goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 and the first contract under NCB. The Bank
would also review ex-ante, all documentation for the selection of consultants (short lists, letter of invitation, contract
forms, terms of reference etc) of contracts estimnated at more than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. Prior review of terms of reference would be required for contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 for
firms and less than US$50,000 for individuals. Popst Review: All procurement documentation, including that related
to contracts not subject to prior review would be kept by the Borrower for ex-post review by the Bank according to
Bank Guidelines.
1.5 The Borrower is planning to administer and implement part of the project under the auspices of the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP). This agency will help to enhance the local institutional capacityand take
care of some complex procurement. In addition, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would hire a procurement
specialist to expedite project implementation. The administrative expenses for the PCU, including UNDP fees,
would be financed by the Borrower. Table A, shows-Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, Table Al, Project
Costs by Consultant Selection Arrangements and Table B, Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review.
H. Disbursement
2.1 Allocation of loan proceeds: The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of three years. The last
disbursement will be incurred thirty six months after the contract signing date. The closing date of the project is
expected to be no later than six months after the last disbursement. The allocation of loan proceeds by project
component is shown in Table C.
2.2 Use of Statements of Expenditures: Disbursements would be based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a) all goods contracts valued below US $350,000 (except the first contract awarded under NCB procedures); and (b)
consultant services valued below US $100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individuals and (c) training
expenditures. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by the PCU and made available for examination by
Bank staff as requested. All other disbursement requests would be accompanied by full documentation.



- 30 -
2.3 Special Account: A Special Account will be established to cover expenditures paid directly by the Borrower,
with an authorized allocation of US $0.5 million. The authorized allocation would be sufficient for approximately
four months of financeable expenditures. The Special Account would be managed by the PCU which would be
responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted monthly or when the Special
Account has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
2.4 Retroactive Financing: At negotiations, the need for retroactive financing of up to US $ 100,000 was reviewed
and agreed for eligible expenditures incurred between June 1, 1998 and the loan signing date. Retroactive financing
is recommended to allow for Bank financing of expenditures which have been incurred since the Project was
identified.
HI. Accounting and Auditing
3.1 The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would maintain the accounts for the project and would be accountable for
funds allocated for the different investment categories for the project execution. lThese accounts would be maintained
in accordance with sound accounting practices, acceptable to the Bank.
3.2 Accounts, including the Special Account and related financial information (including supporting documentation
for the SOEs), would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Bank
auditing guidelines. Certified copies of the audited consolidated project accounts and audited Special Account
(including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of the fiscal year.



-31 -
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs By Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                         Total Cost
(including
ICB             NCB           Other 1/      N.B.F 2/    Contingencies)
1. Works                  --
2. Goods*               530,000                            ---           --           530,000
(530,000)                          --             --         (530,000)
3. Consulting Services             ---                  6,344,000        --          6,344,000
Firms              ---*--                        894,000         ---          894,000
(136,000)                    (136,000)
Individuals          --               ---          5,450,000       ---          5,450,000
(3,250,000)                 (3,250,000)
4. Training 4/             ----                          824,000         ---          827,520
(824,000)       ---         (827,520)
5. Administration          -               --              ---         179,000        179,000
6. Miscellaneous 3/        ---             ---          2,119,480        ---         2,119,480
(260,000)       ---          (256,480)
Total                   530,000            ---          9,291,000      179,000       10,000,000
(530,000)          ---          (4,470,000)      ---        (5,000,000)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
1/ Other: includes training and consultants to be selected according to the guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank, January 1997, revised September 1997".
2/ N.B.F (Not Bank-Financed)
3/ Miscellaneous: includes US$ 904,630 for resources not allocated.
4/ The Bank loan cannot pay EDI or EDI contracted consultants for training programs; these can be paid from counterpart
funding
* centralized procurement of goods for dispersal to beneficiaries is foreseen.



- 32 -
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements ( optional)
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
Selection Method                      Total Cost
Consultant Services                                           .           (including
Expenditure Category   QCBS        QBS         LCS        Other         Contingencies)
A. Firms                  874                     20                            894
(136)                  (---)                        (136)
B. Individuais                                              5,450              5,450
(3,250)           (3,250)
TOTAL              874                    20        5,450              6,344
(136)                  (---)     ((3,250)           (3,386)
Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



- 33 -
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to prior Review
US$ thousands                                  US$ millions
1. Works                    na                     na                     Na
2. Goods                   > 350                  ICB                     All
< 350>100                NCB                   1st One
<100                Shopping                 None
3. Consulting Services
Firms               > 100         According to guidelines          All
< 100         According to guidelines      TOR Only
Individuals           > 50           According to guidelines         All
< 50          According to guidelines      TOR Only



- 34.-
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in                   Financing Percentage
US$ thousands
1. Goods                       530,000                100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory ) and
80% of local expenditures for other
Items procured locally
2. Consulting Services        3,386,000                         100%
3. Training                    824,000                          100%
4. Unallocated                 260,000
Total      5,000,000



- 35 -
Annex 7
Brazil: State Pension System ReformTechnical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual*
(At final PCD stage)        30,000
$30,000
*estimate through end June
B. Project Schedule                             Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4                         4
First Bank mission (identification)            16/03/1998            16/03/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    06/06/1998            06/06/1998
Negotiations                                 22-23/06/1998         22-23/ 06/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/1998                11/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Chris Parel                            Country Officer
Indermit Gill                             Economist
Antonio Magalhaes                            Economist
Morag Van Praag                        Finance/Disbursement
Livio Pino                          Financial Management



- 36 -
Annex 8
Brazil: State Pension System ReformTechnical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Included in the PAD
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Minutes of PCD and "preliminary PAD" meetings
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit    Year                  Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 206
Active Loans
BR-PE-6414    IBRD 30430  1989  COMGAS, SAO PAULO                   NTRL GAS DIST                94.00        0.00            0.00           2.66      2.64       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6370    IBRD 30130  1989  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE IRRI JAIBA                71.00        0.00            0.00           3.91      3.92       0.00       HS             S
BR-PE-6446   IZRD 31730  1990  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR            NAT ENVIRONMT               117.00        0.00            0.00         23.53      23.55       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6453    IBRD 31700  1990  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE IRRIG I                  210.00        0.00           69.00          28.67     97.69      28.69        S             S
BR-PE-6473    IBRD 31600  1990  STATE OF SANTA CATARINA             LND MGNT II-S. CATAR         33.00        0.00            0.00           4.05      4.04      -1.94        S             S
BR-PE-6492    IBRD 33760  1991  PETROBRAS                BRAZI      HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO        260.00        0.00            0.00           3.22       3.22       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6364    IBRD 33750  1991  STATE OF SAO PAULO                  INNOV BASIC ED              245.00        0.00            0.00          26.63     26.63        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6505    IBRD 34920  1992  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                MATO GROSSO NAT RES         205.00        0.00            0.00          82.02     82.02        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6454    IBRD 34440  1992  GOB                                 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M        167.00        0.00            0.00          37.01     37.00        0.00       S             S    _
BR-PE-6368    IBRD 3442S  1992  GOVERNMENT                          WATER SECTOR MODERNI        167.88        0.00            0.00            .46     43.68       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6368    IBRD 3442A  1992  GOVERNMENT                          WATER SECTOR MODERNI         69.62        0.00            0.00          43.23     43.68       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6547    IBRD 36330  1993  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                   METRO TRANSP. RIO            81.02        0.00            0.00            .29     27.32       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6427    IBRD 36040  1993  MIN. OF EDUCATION   N               NE BASIC EDUC II            212.00        0.00            0.00         53.91      40.58       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6540    IBRD 35540  1993  MINAS GERAIS ST.                    WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA        145.00        0.00            5.00          20.28     25.27      -7.93        S             S
BR-PE-6378    IBRD 35480  1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS                   STATE HWY MGMT               38.00        0.00           18.00           3.63     24.02      -2.45        U             U
BR-PE-6378    IBRD 35470  1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS                   STATE HWY MGMT               50.00        0.00            0.00           3.73     24.02      -2.45        U             U
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35050  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                 WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)        117.00        0.00            8.00          29.99     77.25        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35040  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                 WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)        119.00        0.00            0.00         34.02      77.25        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35030  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                 WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)          9.00        01.00           0.00           5.26     77.25        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6522    IBRD 37670  1994  ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO                ESP.SANTO WATER             154.00        0.00            0.00          86.36      62.22       0.00       U             U
BR-PE-6558    IBRD 37660  1994  REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                  PARANA BASIC EDUC            96.00        0.00            0.00          29.01       1.83      0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6543    IBRD 37330  1994  GOVERNMENT                          M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC        150.00        0.00            0.00          50.41     17.74       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6555    IBRD 37150  1994  STATE GOVTS                         STE HWY MGT II               79.00        0.00           18.00           7.52     12.49    -10.00         S             S
BR-PE-6555    IBRD 37130  1994  STATE GOVTS                         STE HWY MGT II               54.00        0.00           18.00          16.30     12.49    -10.00         S             S
BR-PE-6452    IBRD 36630  1994  MINISTRY OF EDUCATION               NE BASIC EDUC III           206.60        0.00            0.00          80.52     60.88        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6546    IBRD 36590  1994  GOVERNMENT                          AIDS CONTROL                160.00        0.00            0.00           5.89       -.03       0.00       S            HS
BR-PE-6524    IBRD 36390  1994  ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                  MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT         150.00        0.00            5.00          34.82     33.13      -2.53        S             S
BR-PE-38885   IBRD 39190  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                      RURAL POV.-SERGIPE           36.00        0.00            0.00          20.21       2.00       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-38884   IBRD 39180  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                      RURAL POV.- CEARA            70.00        0.00            0.00          46.81       9.15       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-35717   IBRD 39170  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                      RURAL POV. (BAHIA)          105.00        0.00            0.00          61.37       9.39      0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6564    IBRD 39160  1995  FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                 BELO H M.TSP                 15.68        0.00            0.00            .36     44.36       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6564    IBRD 3916A  1995  FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                 BELO H M.TSP                 83.32        0.00            0.00          78.65     44.36       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-38882   IBRD 3915A  1995  FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              RECIFE M.TSP                 98.72        0.00            0.00          98.72     49.05       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6436    IBRD 37890  1995  STATE OF CEARA           ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO        140.00        0.00            0.00        103.61      70.27      -5.40        S             S
BR-PE-37828   IBRD 40600  1996  STATE OF PARANA                     (PR)R.POVERTY               175.00        0.00            0.00        158.64      66.07       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6554    IBRD 40470  1996  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                 HLTH SCTR REFORM            300.00        0.00            0.00        261.09      88.58       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-40028   IBRD 4046A  1996  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG        151.48        0.00            0.00        142.62      25.95       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6512    IBRD 39240  1996  CVRD                                ENV/CONS(CVRD)               50.00        0.00            0.00         30.13       7.56       0.00       U              U
BR-PE-6547    IBRD 3633A  1996  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                   METRO TRANSP. RIO            47.48        0.00            0.00         27.02      27.32       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-46052   IBRD 41900  1997                                      CEARA WTR PILOT               9.60        0.00            0.00           8.92      -.68       0.00
BR-PE-48870   IBRD 41890  1997  THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO            MT STATE PRIV.               45.00        0.00            0.00         45 .00     16.68       0.00        5             S
BR-PE-6532    IBRD 41880  1997  FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                  FED HWY DECENTR             300.00        0.00            0.00        285.00      11.67       0.00        S             S



Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                     originalAmountinUS$Millioddisbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
BR-PE-43873   IBRD 41690  1997  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                   AG TECH DEV.                 60.00       0.00             0.00         55.51       8.83       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-34578   IBRD 41650  1997  RIO GRANDE DO SUL                   RGS HWY MGT                  70.00       0.00             0.00         70.00       7.34       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-43868   IBRD 41480  1997  STATE OF RGS                        RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY        100.00       0.00             0.00         97.00      11.10       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6475    IBRD 41470  1997  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                 LAND RFM PILOT               90.00       0.00             0.00         75.05        .89       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6562    IBRD 41400  1997  STATE OF BAHIA                      BAHIA MUN.DV                100.00       0.00             0.00         98.98       8.65       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-39196   IBRD 41390  1997  STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU           RGS ST.REFORM               125.00       0.00             0.00         50.02      20.02       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-42566   IBRD 41220  1997  STATE OF PERNAMBUCO                 R.POVERTY(PE)                39.00       0.00             0.00         28.99       3.44       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-43871   IBRD 41210  1997  STATE OF PIAUI                      (PIAUI)R.POVERTY             30.00       0.00             0.00         24.98       4.28       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-38896   IBRD 41200  1997  STATE OF RGN                        R.POVERTY(RGN)               24.00        0.00            0.00         21.24       4.14       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-40033   IBRD 43180  1998  THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS           MG STATE PRIV.              170.00       0.00             0.00        170.00       0.00       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-6559    IBRD 43120  1998  THE STATE OF SAO PAULO              (BF-R)SP.TSP                 45.00       0.00             0.00         45.00       2.67       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-50762   IBRD 43110  1998  GOV. OF BRAZIL                      FUNDESCOLA1                  62.50       0.00             0.00         62.50       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-38895   IBRD 43100  1998  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                FED.WTR MGT                 198.00       0.00             0.00        198.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43420   IBRD 42920  1998  FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL             WATER S.MOD.2               150.00        0.00            0.00        150.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43421   IBRD 42910  1998  STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO             RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.           186.00        0.00            0.00        186.00      10.00       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-38947   IBRD 42660  1998  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                SC. & TECH 3                155.00        0.00            0.00        155.00       5.00       0.00
BR-PE-6549    IBRD 42650  1998  TBG                                 GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT        130.00        0.00            0.00        130.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-51701   IBRD 42520  1998  STATE OF MARANHAO                   MARANHAO R.POVERTY           80.00        0.00            0.00         80.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-42565   IBRD 42510  1998  STATE OF PARAIBA                    PARAIBA R.POVERTY            60.00        0.00            0.00          60.00      0.00       0.00
BR-PE-48357   IBRD 42450  1998  REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                  CEN.BANK TAL                 20.00        0.00            0.00         20.00         .50      0.00       S              S
BR-PE-6474    IBRD 42380  1998  STATE OF SAO PAULO                  LAND MGT 3(SP)               55.00        0.00            0.00         55.00         .67      0.00       S              S
BR-PE-35728   IBRD 42320  1998  STATE OF BAHIA                      BAHIA WTR RESOURCES          51.00        0.00            0.00         51.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD 42110  1998  STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO             RJ ST.PRIV.                 250.00        0.00            0.00        125.00      50.00       0.00        S             S
Total                                                                                        7,337.90         0.00          141.00      4,094.75  1,551.04    -14.01
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               3,116.95           15,767.01           18,883.96
of which has been repaid:                291.92           12,535.05           12,826.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               6,945.87            3,236.01           10,181.88
Amount sold                      :                 0.00              45.83                45.83
Of which repaid               :                0.00               45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed                :            4,094.75                4.05            4,098.80
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 39 -
Annex 10
Brazil at a glance                                                              8/28/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-    --
Elrazil  & Carib.  Income     Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       '161.2       485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             4,360     3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billIons US$)                               702.9     1,799    2,173                       T
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                       I
Population (%)                                          1.4       1.7      1.5      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%16)                                       1.6       2.3      1.8      per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headoount index (% of population)              17
Urban population (% of total population)                78         74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        67         69       69
Infant mortality (per t,OOO rive births)                44         37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              18                                       s ..t
Access to safe water (% of population)                  92         80       86
Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage 15+)                        17         13       13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  114        110      107                Brazil
Male                                                   ..                                   Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                           121.8    222.9     716.9    748.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.8      19.2      20.1     19.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              7.5     12.2       6.7      6.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   22.9      24.4      19.2     18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   21.1      19.3      17.6     16.3
Current account balancelGDP                   -5.8     -0.2      -2.5      -3.2
Interest payments/GDP                          1.7      3.3       1.2      1.7      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                22.4     46.5      22.2     23.8
Total debt servicelexports                   43.5      39.1      43.1     46.7
Present value of debtGDP                        ..        .      22.1
Present value of debUexports                    ..       ..    270.7                           Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96     1996      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                       Brazil
GDP                                  3.1       1.2      4.1       2.9      4.8                Upper-middle-income group
GNP per capita                       0.2      -0.4      2.8       1.6      4.0
Exportsofgoodsandservices           10.5      6.5      -1.4       6.1      7.0     _:_    ::::::_:::= :
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                   1975     1985       1996     1996      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
Agriculture                                   12.1     11.5       14.4     14.4     15
Industry                                      40.2     45.3      36.5     36.4      10
Manufacturing                               30.3     33.7       23.8       ..      s-
Services                                     47.7      43.1      49.1     49.2                          93   94    9      9
.5   -    -9-2    93   94   95   9e
Private consumption                           66.5     65.8      64.9     65.7    -10 -
General govemment consumption                 10.6      9.9      15.9      16.1                    GDl      0-GDP
Importsofgoods and services                   11.5      7.1       7.6      7.9                -
1976456  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    4.3      2.6       4.9       3.1     40
Industry                                       3.0    -1.1        2.1      2.3
Manufacturing                                2.6    -1.5        2.1        ..     20
Services                                       2.9      2.8       5.3       3.3
Private consumption                            3.0      1.8      11.0       4.1      o   /              9     S /         9 l
General govemment consumption                  1.2      0.7       2.4       0.8            91           93   94    9    se
Gross domestic investment                     -2.9    -0.6        9.4       0.0    -20
Imports of goods and services                 -4.0      89       36.8       5.9                   Exports    a  Imports
Gross national product                         2.5      1.1       4.2       2.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 40 -
Annex 10
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           4000 T
Consumer prices                               25.0    226.9       67.0      15.5    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                         33.9    231.7       74.9      11.1    2,000
Governmrent finance                                                                  1 000
(% of GDP)                                                                             00
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      31.5      32.4              91   92   93   94   95   9S
Primary surplus/deficit                         ..        ..       0.4      -0.1               *- GDP def    *  CPI
Operational surplus/deficit                     ..        ..      -4.8      -3.9
TRADE
1976     1986       1995     1996
(millions IJS$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                   -          ..  25,638    46,508   47,746       60,000
Coffee                                         ..   2,607       1,970    2,059
Other food                                     ..   2,545       3,896    4,665
Manufactures                                   ..  13,356    25,568   26,247       40000
Total imports (cif)                              ..  13,153    49,663   53,286
Food                                            .        ..     3,535    6,044     20,000 TIT
Fuel and energy                                ..   6,176      4,649    5,752              fi
Capital goods                                  ..   2,480      19,688   19,804        0        -1 .
Export pr.ce index (1987=100)                            97        128      126             90  91  92  93  94  95  95
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       79        124      125                   nExports    I Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      123        103      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1 985      1996     1996 
(millions JS$)                                1                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                9,418   27,713    47,960   49,558       2-
Imports of goods and services               14,323   16,928    54,306   59,355
Resource balance                             -4,905   10,785    -6,346   -9,797        t
Net inconme                                  -216-123           -1,1    1,0 
Net current transfers                          -10       16      3,973    2,899               9    92   9    94   95 
Current account balance,                                                            -2
before official capital transfers          -7,021     -412   -17,792  -24,300        1
-2 
Financingi items (net)                       5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                      1,065   -1,414   -12,987   -8,635    -4
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)           4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
Conversion rate (iocalYUS$)                3.OE-12  2.3E-09        0.9       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions IJS$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        27,329  103,601    159,130  178,131                        A   c
IBRD                                       1,045    5,274      6,038    5,876    |                  6038 142
IDA                                            0        0          0        0      ComposiStgj4ftotal debt, 199ti 1. USS)
Total debt service                           4,320   11,470    22,328         ..                           /
IBRD                                          98      796      1,868    1,638               /           /        1941        1
IDA                                            0        0          0        0                                     9/ 4/
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                9       34         64
Official creditors                         1,059      935    -1,378         ..              ',
Private? creditors                         4,213      149      9,827
Foreign direct investment                  1,302    1,348      4,859
Portfolio equity                               0        0      4,411        .                          F
99678
World Bank program
Commitments                                  538    1,525        404      858       A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                249      765        838    1,500       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          26      406      1,377    1,222       C-IMF                       G - Short-temm
Net flows                                    224      359       -539      278    __1
Interest payments                             72      391        491      416
Net transfers                                152      -32    -1,031      -138
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/28/97



