Page  1
February 26, 2001
Mr. Almir Martins Bastos
Procurador Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios-Bloco P-8o andar
70048-900, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Re:
Loan 4369-BR (State Pension Systems
Reform Technical Assistance Project)
Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Bastos:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated April 28, 1999, between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) for the above referenced Project, as amended, and the letter, 
dated February 4, 2000, from the Deputy Executive Secretary of the Ministry of 
Finance, requesting an amendment to the procedures applicable to the procurement of 
consultants' services adding  Consultants' Qualifications as an eligible procurement 
modality under the Loan Agreement.
Schedule 4, Part C of Section II to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by 
inserting a new paragraph 3 as follows:
"3.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines."
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date the two copies 
of this Letter in the space provided below, and return one copy to us.  This amendment 
letter will become effective as of the date of this letter, upon receipt of a signed 
copy of this letter by us.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Brazil - Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
cc.
Mr. Luiz Tacca Junior, Deputy Executive Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Delubio Gomes Pereira da Silva, Director, Department of Social Security and 
Public Service Administration, MPAS
AGREED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Sonia de Almendra F. Portella Nunes
Procuradora da Fazenda Nacional 
Authorized Representative
Date:
May 22, 2001
Page  2
Cleared w/& cc: Ms. Teresa Genta-Fons (LEGLA)
cc:
Messrs./Mmes.:  Jose Augusto Carvalho (LEGLA), Efraim Jimenez, Ane Marie
Proite Correa (LCC5C), Parel (LCSPS), IRIS
