Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4369-BR
Loan Agreement
(State Pension Systems Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 28, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4369-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1999, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend to the Borrower the loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Loan) 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
Page  2
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“MF” means Ministério da Fazenda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(b)
“MF-MPAS Arrangement” means the arrangement referred to in Section 5.01 
(e) of this Agreement; 
(c)
“MPAS” means Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Social Security; 
(d)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 5.01 (d) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended with the agreement of the Bank; 
(e)
“Participating State” means any State or the Federal District of the 
Borrower which is eligible, pursuant to the criteria established in the Operational 
Manual, to participate in the Project; 
(f)
“PCU” means the unit in MF, established pursuant to Portaria MF No. 248, 
of the Borrower’s Minister of Finance, as restructured pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of 
this Agreement for purposes of being responsible for Project coordination, management 
and evaluation;
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(h)
“State UT” means the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement;  
(i)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(j)
“UT” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank , including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
Page  3
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MF and MPAS with the assistance of the Participating States, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and the provisions of the Operational Manual and the MF-MPAS 
Arrangement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
Page  4
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MF, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with each Participating State (the Subsidiary Agreement), whereby the 
Borrower will undertake to transfer the funds (including proceeds of the Loan) to such 
Participating State as required to enable such Participating State to carry out its 
activities under the Project, and such Participating State will declare its commitment 
to the objectives of the Project and will undertake (i) to carry out such activities 
and to collaborate with the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, all as set 
forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement (including the Operational Manual), (ii) 
to establish and maintain, during the execution of the Project, a unit (the State UT) 
responsible for implementation, coordination and evaluation of the Project activities 
to be carried out by such Participating State, such State UT to have a structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and to have qualified staff in 
adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities, and (iii) to assign to 
the agency of such State responsible for pension management any staff of such State 
who has been trained under Part A.2 of the Project, and to incorporate thereto any 
equipment of such State that has been acquired under Part A of the Project. 
(c)
The Borrower shall comply with its obligations and exercise its rights 
under the Subsidiary Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreements or any provision thereof.
(d)
In the carrying out of the training activities under Part A.2 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall use, and shall cause the Participating States to use 
adequate methodology for pension diagnoses and simulation acceptable to the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project: 
(a)
maintain the PCU with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its 
responsibilities; and 
(b)
establish and maintain a unit in MPAS (the UT) responsible for assisting 
the PCU and the Participating States in all technical aspects related to the carrying 
out of the Project, for monitoring and evaluating the Participating States’ pension 
systems, and for providing technical assistance on pension matters to such States, 
such unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have 
qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in the fourteenth month after the date of this 
Agreement, hold with the Bank an in-depth review of the progress in the carrying out 
of the Project and in the achievement of its objectives, such progress to be measured 
on the basis of the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation purposes set 
forth in the attachment to the letter (Ofício No. 128/SE-MF), dated December 22, 1998, 
from the Borrower to the Bank, and thereafter take all such action which shall have 
been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank during such review as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, any such 
action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such 
review.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  5
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in the PCU a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the PCU has been restructured, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in 
order to enable it to coordinate, manage and evaluate the Project; 
(b)
the UT has been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.03 (b) 
of this Agreement;  
Page  6
(c)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established; 
(d)
a manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been issued jointly by MF and MPAS, 
containing, inter alia, the operational procedures for the carrying out of the 
Project, including the criteria for eligibility of a State or the Federal District of 
the Borrower to participate in the Project and to receive financing for Project 
activities, and the model form for Subsidiary Agreements; and 
(e)
an administrative arrangement (convênio), satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been entered into between MF and MPAS for purposes of defining their respective roles 
in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03. The date July 28, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social
Secretaria de Previdência Social
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco F - 7( andar
70059-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Almir Martins Bastos 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
530,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
     4,210,000
100%
       services and training
(3)
Unallocated
260,000
TOTAL
     5,000,000
     =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
Page  8
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1998; and
(b)
expenditures in respect of a Participating State, unless such State: (i) 
has entered into a Subsidiary Agreement with the Borrower; and (ii) has established 
its State UT as provided in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Loan Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent each, except those under the first contract to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; (b) consulting firms’ services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) individual consultants’ services under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Participating States in the 
preparation of a reform of their pension systems that would enable such States to 
improve such systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  
1.
Improvement of a sample pension data base of active and retired employees of 
Participating States. 
2.
Training of staff from MPAS, the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Administration 
and State Reform and the Participating States in pension reform and pension simulation 
modeling, and carrying out of workshops to exchange information and experiences, and 
to learn from experts, on those matters. 
3.
Undertaking of diagnoses of current and future pension obligations of the 
Participating States, including the financial implications thereof. 
4.
Public dissemination and debate, through workshops, of such diagnoses.
Part B: 
1.
Support for the development of proposals for reform of Participating States’ 
pension systems. 
2.
Public dissemination and debate, through workshops, of such proposals in each 
Participating State. 
3.
Carrying out of workshops to exchange information and experiences, and to learn 
from experts on such proposals.
Part C: 
1.
Design of a proposal for a legal and institutional framework to implement 
pension reform in Participating States. 
2.
Public dissemination and debate, through workshops, of such proposed framework 
in each Participating State. 
3.
Carrying out of workshops to exchange information and experiences, and to learn 
from experts on such proposed framework.
Part D:
Page  9
Carrying out of studies on: (a) legislation that may be required to improve the 
Borrower’s pension system; (b) best practices for pension fund management; and (c) the 
pension-related financial obligations of the Borrower and the Borrower’s States to 
each other.
Part E:
Strengthening, through technical assistance and training, of the capacity of: 
(a) the UT to assist the Participating States and MF in Project implementation and 
monitoring; (b) MPAS to monitor and evaluate the pension systems of the Participating 
States, which will require the design and implementation of an information system; and 
(c) the Participating States to manage their respective pension systems.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2004
through September 15, 2013
250,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
In the procurement of goods pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, 
regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  For purposes of the Guidelines, the 
term “custom duties and other import taxes” includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge 
for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha 
Mercante), established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-law No. 1,142 of December 30, 
1970, as amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 
1, 1998.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 or 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for 
the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposed of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  11
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to any contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part 
B.1 above, and to the first contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.1 above. 
3.
Post Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The short list of consultants for services to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 above, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Page  12
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000, or any 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
Page  13
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  14
