Report No. PID6888
Project Name                     Brazil-State Pension Systems Reform...
Technical Assistance Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management--Pension Reform
Project ID                       BRPE57910
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco P, 5 andar
70048-900 - Brasilia, DF - Brasil
Tel: 61-321-3995
Fax: 61-226-7935
Date PID Prepared                September 28, 1998
Projected Appraisal              Ended June 25, 1998
Projected Board Date             VP Approval (the Loan is a LIL),
June 30, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Federal and state fiscal reform is one of the Brazil program's priority
country assistance objectives. The fiscal situation of most Brazilian states
is precarious.  State and local debt in December 1997 was 13% of GDP and 38%
of total government debt. Pension obligations constitute a large and growing
component of states'debt, consuming 30-50% of revenues in some states.    A
further indication of the gravity of the pension crisis is given by the ratio
of pension expenditures to salary bill for current state civil servants. For
instance, in Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, and Rio Grande do Sul the ratio
ranges from 50-120%.   Hence resolving the pension crises that afflicts most
states is essential to achieving a stable fiscal situation. However, pension
reform will not be easy. Implicit pension debt for some of the largest states
could amount to billions of dollars. Hence, the solution to the
states'pension problem is not immediately clear. Nevertheless, it is
essential that the problem be confronted immediately and in a technically
sound manner. The Project is a first, necessary step in that process.
2.      Objectives
The overall project objective is to prepare the states technically to address
pension reform and help them to move through the initial phases of reform. It
is also to assist the Federal and State Governments to choose from among the
best options and encourage them to implement sound reforms.
State pension reform comprises four phases:
i.      Technical preparedness and diagnostic
ii.     Elaboration of p   ension reform proposals
iii.    Design of required institutional framework
iv.     Implementation of reform proposals.
The project is a Learning and Innovations Loan (LIL) with limited objectives.
It specifically targets Phases #1 and #2 and exceptionally will support Phase
#3 activities for more advanced states.



3.      Description
Objective
Components & Description
Phase #1
Diagnostic
(a) States will upgrade their data bases of active and
retired state employees sufficient to extract reliable data
for pension modeling
(b) States and MARE train 2 state officials in pension reform
and pension modeling making use of the Bank's "PROST"
software
(c) States and MARE produce a diagnostic of current and
future pension obligations and financial implications using
PROST or other simulation models in use
(d) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
(e) States strengthen pension units with appropriate mandate,
trained personnel, budget, hardware and software (also from
the Loan) to manage pension reform
(f) MPAS develops a Technical Unit (TU) with a legal mandate
and appropriate resources, including trained staff, to assist
the states and the MF in implementing the project and
monitoring through shared data the evolution of state
pensions. The TU will assist the MF in project implementation
Phase #2
Reform
Proposal
(a) States develop reform proposals using PROST and any other
simulation models vetted by the TU
(b) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
Phase #3
Institutional
Framework
(a) A few states, on an exceptional basis, design the
legislative and institutional framework necessary to implement
pension reform; this Phase could become the object of a second
LIL or other Bank operation
(b) States disseminate and debate results in open forums
Government
Strengthening
Federal and state pension reform supported though studies
targeting 3 crucial areas: (i) complementary legislation to
implement the Constitutional reforms; (ii) "best practice"
for pension fund management, and (iii) Federal INSS pension
related financial obligations to the states and state
- 2 -



obligations to the INSS.
4.      Financing
With the exception of some $500,000 of computer equipment, loan financing is
comprised of training, consultant services and administrative expenses. The
Table below summarizes expenditures in each of the loan's phases.
Activity                 Description                                  Cost  ($)
START-UP
Training of MPAS staff   Training in Washington and Brasilia of       139,000
MPAS technicians in PROST including the
adaptation of PROST to the Brazil case
Administrative
support                  Local contracting of actuarial,              450,000
informatica and procurement/administrative
consultants to support MPAS and MOF
Total                                                                  588,000
Phase #1
Training of state
officials                Training in PROST (and other softwares)       725,000
plus pension management and reform for 2
officials/participating state in Brasilia
Data base
upgrading                Upgrading of states' data bases with the      2,200,000
help of consultants so that reliable data
can be obtained for use in diagnostics and
simulation
-Administrative
support                  Costs of MPAS technical support of states     77,000
as they use PROST/other models to diagnose
their civil service pension program
Brasilia workshops       Two workshops to discuss diagnostic            86,000
experiences and learn about best practices
Dissemination of
diagnostic results       Dissemination program in each states to        375,000
ensure participatory approach and ample
debate
Hardware &
Software                 Computers and software valued at about         530,000
$20,000/state
3,900,000
-3-



Total
Phase # 2
Development of
simulations &
reform proposals         Consultants and MPAS staff will assist       2,277,000
states to develop reform proposals
Brasilia workshop        To discuss simulation experiences and best     47,000
practice
Dissemination of
results                  To ensure that stakeholders and experts        330,000
are informed and participate in debating
the results in each state
Total                                                                  2,650,000
Phase #3
Design of
institutional
frameworks               Design of regulatory and institutional
frameworks required to reform the pension
system with the support of consultants        1,060,000
Brasilia workshop        To exchange experiences among states and
best practices                                    41,000
Dissemination of
results                  For those few states that get this far,
results will be disseminated and publicly
debated                                          105,000
Loan wrap-up
workshop                 To assess results and next steps                 41,000
Total                                                                  1,250,000
Activity                 Description                                     Cost($)
Government
Activities
Study-Support of
Complementary
Legislation              To help operationalize Constitutional
reform amendments which require
complementary legislation                        116,000
Study-Pension
Fund Management          To establish and disseminate best
practices in fund management applicable to
- 4 -



state pension funds                             116,000
Study-Federal
Compensation
Obligations              To study INSS, state & municipal
obligations incurred previously                  192,000
Administrative
expenses                 Publications, procurement & administration
support, travel                                 190,000
Total                                                                    615,000
Grand Total with
Contingencies                                                         10,000,000
5.      Implementation
The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU is under the borrowing
institution, the Ministry of Finance. It is headed by an experienced advisor
to the Executive Secretary. The advisor is also heading a PCU for a large IDB
umbrella state fiscal modernization loan. Experienced staff involved in
managing a IDB loan will also participate in the Project PCU which should
ensure smooth implementation.
Liaison with states will be facilitated through the Ministry of Finance's
CONFAZ, a permanent organization of State Finance Secretaries which meets
regularly. The head of the PCU is also the advisor to the MF coordinator of
CONFAZ. A similar forum coordinated by MARE for states' Administration
Secretaries will also be used for this end.
Technical Unit (TU)--MPAS. A Technical Unit will be constituted at MPAS to
assist the PCU in managing the technical aspects of the Project. It will vet
terms of reference for state contracted consultants manage studies, organize
workshops, and generally manage, provide opinions, and vet all technical
aspects of the Project. TU staff will be trained in PROST and given courses
in pension reform so that they can assist the states in carrying out
diagnostics and elaborating reform programs. Consultants and seconded Federal
Government and MPAS staff required to carry out this work will sit in the TU
as well. It is expected that the TU will become a permanent MPAS unit
liaising and providing technical assistance to the states.
Consultative Committee. The Project Coordinating Unit and the Technical Unit
will be supported by this committee whose membership will include high ranking
officials from four ministries--MF, MPAS, MPO and MARE. The Committee will
serve as a sounding board for issues and proposals that arise during the
implementation of the Project.
Agreements ("Convenios") and Operational Manual. State obligations and
conditionality will be detailed in Agreements and an Operational Manual (see
Section G). Conditions must be met to qualify for Project participation and
in order to pass from one Phase to the next. The TU will verify that these
conditions have been satisfactorily met.
Financial Management and Procurement. The Project Coordinator and his staff
are currently managing an IDB multi-state loan hence they are experienced.
Procurement will be supervised from the Bank's Brasilia office. A Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) has already diagnosed PCU capability and made
recommendations. A Brasilia based FMS will now assist the PCU to meet Bank
- 5 -



standards by effectiveness and will help with project implementation
thereafter.
6.      Sustainability
A. States
The Project will require that states legally establish/strengthen pension
units with adequately trained staff (including those trained through the
Project) and appropriate resources. A small computer hardware and software
package will also be provided by the Project to ensure capacity. This will be
covered in the state agreements ("convenios") with the MF and constitute a
condition for moving to Phase #2. True sustainability will come about if and
when states perform the diagnostics, discover the danger to their pension
systems and fiscal situation, and feel compelled to move through phases #2-3
and implement pension reforms. If this doesn't happen the Project will have
failed.
B. Government
(i) MPAS. An administrative order has established a permanent technical unit
to monitor state pensions and provide technical assistance to states as
needed. Such an order and funding for the unit can, at any time, be withdrawn
and there is the risk that once the Project is finished States will no longer
want to liaise and exchange data with MPAS--they have no legal obligation to
do so. Hence sustainability will most likely come about as a function of the
MPAS unit providing continuing assistance to the States through PROST and
pension reform advice, by coordinating updates of PROST, and through
promoting workshops over the course of the Project.
(ii) MPAS/FAZENDA. The three studies to be carried out under the auspices of
the operation (complementary legislation to implement Constitutional reforms,
best practice in pension fund management, and evaluation of outstanding
Federal/States pension liabilities) will have a direct impact on pension
reform as they address pending issues and matters of great importance to the
states and the Government.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank interventions in the area of pension reform have been limited to a few
investment operations targeting national systems. This operation is different
because
It is a LIL and only a few have been done to date in the Bank
It has very limited, generic objectives, namely providing resources for States
to pursue diagnoses and elaboration of reform proposals
It makes use of new Bank software (PROST) that has been tested in only a few
countries
It targets autonomous states in the federated Brazilian system.
The experience of Bank practitioners and findings documented in
"Perspectives on Technical Assistance Loans" (CODE98-4) provide useful
lessons:
(i)     Need to upgrade data bases in order to have a sound basis for diagnostics
and simulations.
-6-



Brazilian state pension data bases are unreliable. This will be
addressed in phase one through the allocation of consulting funds to states to
upgrade a representative sample of sufficient size to allow for actuarial
analysis.
(ii)    Need to provide adequate technical assistance and resources to ensure
relatively unsophisticated practitioners can carry out and take ownership of
technically demanding diagnoses and elaborate reform proposals having tested
various scenarios. This includes both pension reform theory and practice and
PROST/simulation methodologies. Also, competent state pension staff must be
chosen and due diligence done to avoid a situation where beneficiaries move
too quickly into PROST-based reform simulations before sound assumptions have
been formulated and staff adequately trained. Quality control is essential,
especially as PROST is a Bank product and there is a risk of the Bank's name
being invoked to justify unsound results.
MPAS based "trainers" will be instructed intensively in pension reform,
PROST, and Visual Basic and will be available to assist the states in all
phases of the Project. Two state officials will also be trained in PROST and
pension reform. States will receive funding to contract consultants for this
work and a series of workshops will be held on various aspects of pension
management and reform during the three year period. Also, an ample
supervision budget will be provided to ensure that Bank pension reform experts
can help guide the states, especially in the first diagnostic and reform
exercises carried out by the more advanced states. Finally, MPAS Technical
Unit staff will formally vet participants, TORs and the quality of diagnostics
and simulations as part of Project conditionality.
(iii)   Properly identify the critical parameters, their impact, and    the
magnitude of the financial burdens implicit in proposals.
The combination of PROST, pension reform training, MPAS and Bank technical
assistance and workshops should enable states to identify critical parameters,
run sound simulations and dimension the financial burdens involved in pension
reform.
(iv)    Ensure that (a) there is ownership in the Federal and state
governments and a willingness to engage the opposition and push through
reforms, (b) the 'owner' of the data base/pension management supports the
exercise, (c) the process is participatory and amply disseminated/debated
and stakeholders' interests are identified and addressed, and (d) campaigns
are undertaken to build constituency support for the reform effort.
To participate in the Project and pass from one phase to the next, states must
agree to disseminate findings and hold workshops in order to hear from
stakeholders. Finance is provided in the Project for publications and
workshops in each state for each phase. Given the sensitive political issues
involved, these components will also be designed to build state-wide
constituencies by demonstrating the consequences of delaying reforms. It is
possible that more resources will need to be budgeted to develop campaigns in
support of reforms in some states.
8.      Poverty Category
This is not a Program of Targeted Interventions. It will indirectly impact
- 7 -



upon poverty in that mitigation of the fiscal burden imposed by pension
obligations will free up resources for development programs.
9.      Environmental Aspects
Not applicable
10.     Program Objective Categories
Public Sector Management--Pension Reform
11.     Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 2, 1998.
- 8 -



