Page  1
December 6, 1999
Mr. Almir Martins Bastos
Procurador Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios – Bloco P – 8o. Andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Re: Loan 4369-BR (State Pension Systems 
Reform Technical Assistance Project)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Dear
Mr. Bastos: 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated April 2, 1999, between the Federative Republic of 
Brazil and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the above referenced Project. 
Considering that the Ministry of Finance, which is implementing the Project, has the capacity and is 
willing to make disbursements under the Loan on the basis of Project management reports, we propose to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows: 
1.
In Section 1.02
(a) paragraph (g) is amended to read as follows: 
“(g)
'Special Account' means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement:" 
(b) 
the following new paragraphs (1), (m) and (n) 
are added at the end to read as follows: 
"(1) "Eligible Categories" means Categories (I) and (2) set forth in the table in Parr A.I 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(m)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and 
(n) 
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement." 
2.
Section 2.02 (b)
 is deleted and Section 2.02 (a) becomes Section 2.02 
3.
In Section 4.01 (c), second line, and 4.01 (c) (iv), fourth line
, the words "or Project Management 
Reports, as the case may be," are inserted after "statements of expenditure". 
4.
A new Section 4.02
 is added to read as follows: 
Page  2
"Section 402. the Borrower, through the PCU, shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank. and furnish to the Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project management report for such period, which: 
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report 
and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(b) 
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets, and (iii) includes a comparison between actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report." 
5.
In Schedule 1
: 
(a) 
the following title is included before paragraph 1: 
"A. General
”:
(b)
paragraph 3
 is deleted; and
(c)
a new Part B
 is added at the end to read as follows: 
“B”. Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Except as the Bank shall otherwise specify by 
notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by 
the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to 'the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be supported by a Project 
Management Report. 
(b)
Upon receipt 
of 
each application for withdrawal 
of 
an amount 
of 
the Loan, the Bank 
Page  3
shall, on behalf 
of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: 
(i) the amount so requested; and (ii) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date 
of 
such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount 
of 
$600,000. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more 
of 
the Eligible Categories. 
3 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
 if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports. 
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B.2 of this-Schedule if, at any time. the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon 
such notification, the Bank shall determine. in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account was 
made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account 
will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 (c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 5 
Page  4
shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement." 
6. Schedule 
5
 is deleted
. 
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date the two copies of this letter in 
the space provided below, and return one copy to us. This amendment letter will become effective as of 
the date of countersignature by you, upon receipt of the signed copy of this letter by us. 
Sincerely,
/s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
By__________________________________
Authorized Representative
Date: ______________
