                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                              April 5, 2013
                                                                     Report No.: AB7280
 Operation Name                     First Economic Recovery Development Policy Operation
                                    (DPO-1)
 Region                             AFRICA
 Country                            Malawi
 Sector                             General public administration sector (50%);General
                                    agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%);Public
                                    administration- Energy and mining (10%);Public
                                    administration- Other social services (10%);Central
                                    government administration (10%)
 Operation ID                       P133663
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
 Implementing Agency                Ministry of Finance
 Date PID Prepared                  March 21, 2013
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        April 5, 2013
 Estimated Date of Board            May 28, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Country and Sector Background

Until 2010, Malawi experienced solid growth averaging around 7 percent (2006-2010) largely
through prudent macroeconomic policies and a supportive donor environment, which allowed
Malawi to achieve a historic level of income per capita of $350 since independence. Despite the
strong economic performance, poverty remains widespread and concentrated in rural areas.

Economic imbalances started to build in late 2008 in the context of the global crisis, and were
intensified during the run-up to the 2009 Presidential and Parliamentary elections. This
juxtaposition of events led to fiscal and external imbalances that required important adjustment
to contain aggregate demand. The manifestation of the macroeconomic imbalances included the
accumulation of an estimated MK72billion in government domestic payment arrears, severe
shortages of foreign exchange and accumulation of external payment arrears by the private
sector, estimated at about US$600 million. As a result, the pace of Malawi’s growth started to
slow down in 2011, where economic growth is estimated at 4.3 percent. The slowdown in the
real sector activities in 2011/12 and the contraction in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors
manifested themselves in a much lower estimated real GDP growth of 1.9 percent in 2012.

The new Administration under President Mrs. Joyce Banda, which came into office in April
2012, is undertaking decisive policy measures to arrest the slowdown in the economy, including
the unification of the exchange rate, tightening of the monetary and fiscal policies, and adoption
of the automatic adjustment mechanism for retail prices of petroleum products to reflect import

                                                1
parity prices at the market determined exchange rate. These reforms have facilitated, among
others, the removal of market distortions (especially in the petroleum sub-sector and foreign
exchange markets), strengthening the macroeconomic management and the clamping down on
some of the loopholes in the public finance management, while scaling up social safety net
programs to cushion the poor and the most vulnerable groups from unintended effects of the
economic adjustment process. While the reforms have laid the foundation for the country’s
recovery, a harsher external environment than earlier anticipated has weakened the pace of the
economic recovery. The rising cost of living, on the back of high inflation rate and continued
depreciation of the Kwacha, has intensified demands for wage increases, especially in the public
sector. Greater efforts to restructure the economy to reduce ineffective public expenditure,
together with promoting growth in areas where it is sustainable and makes the greatest
contribution to the overall development goal, would be key to curbing inflation and ensure that
Malawi weathers these challenging times.

This notwithstanding, the country is on a recovery path - emerging signs of recovery are being
helped by the recovery in the external credit lines and increased availability of foreign exchange
for importation of critical inputs. In addition to the stabilization efforts, the Government of
Malawi (GoM) is implementing structural reforms to support economic growth by putting in
place measures to enhance the country’s competitiveness by removing regulatory hurdles to
doing business and undertaking investments in infrastructure to address constraints to growth.
Efforts are also underway to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of collecting non-tax
revenues. The GoM has also initiated steps to address the contingent liabilities and operational
losses risks posed by the State Owned Enterprises (SOEs). Specifically, the GoM now proactively
monitors the activities of the SOEs on quarterly basis, with specific attention being paid on
procurement activities. The GoM is also in the process of clearing the domestic payment arrears
accumulated by the SOE and other Ministries, Departments and Agencies, through the issuance of
promissory notes, which in effect addresses the contingent liability risk. The GoM, in close
collaboration with development partners, is implementing critical PFM reforms through the
Public Finance and Economic Management Reform Programme (PFEMRP) Multi Donor Trust
Fund (MDTF) administered by the World Bank, aimed at improving GoM’s macro-fiscal
management, accountability and transparency in public financial management and public
oversight. The first project in the MDTF, the Financial Reporting and Oversight Improvement
Project (FROIP), covers accounting and financial reporting, internal and external audit and
program management.

 According to the recent report of Malawi’s Third Integrated Household Survey (IHS3 2010/11),
absolute poverty has declined by less than 2 percent since 2004/05, to 50.7 percent. Although
poverty in urban areas reduced from 25.4 percent in 2005 to 17.3 percent in 2011, this gain was
counterbalanced by a worsening in rural poverty from 55.9 percent to 56.6 percent. The urban
population experienced a rise across the board in real consumption between 2005 and 2011,
reflecting the fact that poverty reduction in urban areas has been more solid and that the
inequality in urban areas has remained fairly constant at about 0.49. With the majority of the
poor living in rural areas, rural growth through agricultural transformation is clearly critical as
Malawi strives to reduce the number of its people who live in absolute poverty. Poverty rates
among female headed households are significantly higher than male headed households, with
their limited access to larger land holdings and failure to engage in cash crop production
contributing to the higher household poverty and as such more targeted interventions are needed
                                                2
       Operation Objectives

In line with the Government of Malawi’s Second Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
(MGDS II) 2011-16, Economic Recovery Plan and FY13-16 Country Assistance Strategy, the
DPO series focuses on: (i) strengthening macroeconomic and finance management; and, (ii)
laying foundation for stronger growth and protection of the poor. Within this framework, the
proposed DPO series seeks: Firstly, to build on reforms under the Rapid Response Development
Policy Grant (approved in July 2012) as well as consolidate the reforms supported by the
recently approved three-year arrangement for Malawi under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF).
Secondly, to build on Government commitment to stay the course of macroeconomic policy and
structural reforms to support the economic recovery process and lay the foundations for stronger
growth and protection of the poor and most vulnerable. Lastly, to use this Bank instrument to
provide the Government of Malawi (GoM) with the much needed resources to ease the emerging
fiscal pressures and sustain the economic reforms.
The Development Policy Operation series will focus on two pillars:

1. Strengthening Macroeconomic and Public Finance Management: Support will focus on
broad reform program on macroeconomic management and the management of public resources
covering two specific reform objectives, namely: i) achieving macroeconomic stability and fiscal
discipline; and ii) enhancing the efficiency and transparency of the public finance management.
To achieve these objectives, the Recipient, through its ministry responsible for finance, should
have completed the following prior actions:
     Prior action 1: Validated its outstanding payment arrears and has developed a plan for
        the full clearance of said arrears. This will be supported by measures to strengthen
        commitment controls under the Integrated Financial Management System and other
        expenditure control measures. This will help support the fiscal consolidation process and
        restore the credibility of the budget;
     Prior action 2: Published the Budget Performance Quarterly Reports for the first two
        quarters of 2012/13 fiscal years on the website of its finance ministry. The objective is to
        improve the quality of budget execution, transparency and minimize wastage of public
        resources by ensuring effective expenditure controls across budget lines and timely
        corrective actions taken during budget implementation. This also aids the government in
        addressing efficiency issues in the budget over the medium term, which will ultimately
        create the much needed fiscal space;
     Prior action 3: Submitted Treasury Minutes covering the period July 1, 2006 through June
        30, 2007 to the Recipient’s parliament. This will help strengthen accountability and
        transparency as well as minimize waste in the use of public resources through timely
        follow-up of audit recommendations; and,
     Prior action 4: The Recipient, through its ministry responsible for agriculture and food
        security, has revised the bidding documents for the annual purchase of fertilizer under the
        Farm Input Subsidy Program fertilizer procurement. This will bring about efficiency gains
        in the fertilizer market as well as reduce the fiscal burden.




                                                 3
2. Laying foundation for Stronger Growth and Protection of the Poor: Focus measures
aimed at enhancing agriculture productivity and diversification, addressing energy constraints
and improving efficiency in the provision of social safety nets.

      Prior action 5: The Recipient, through the Malawi Energy Regulatory Authority, has
       undertaken monthly reviews of the Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula for electricity
       covering the period May to November 2012. This will, among others, help improve the
       financial position of the Utility Company as the tariffs become more cost reflective,
       which would help attract private sector players in the market. The subsequent reforms
       will help bring about changes in the regulatory environment, which will create conducive
       environment for Independent Power Producers.
      Prior action 6: The Recipient has approved the National Social Support Program. The
       reform aims at strengthening linkages between existing social programs so as to amplify
       benefits and also develop an exit/graduate strategy for the beneficiaries. This will help
       improve efficiency and targeting of social safety nets and support the move towards more
       productive social protection.

       Rationale for Bank Involvement

The rationale for Bank’s involvement in the proposed new DPO programmatic series is the need
to help the government consolidate the implementation of the macroeconomic and structural
policy reforms and improve efficiency in public expenditure. The DPO series is an integral part
of the Bank’s new Country Assistance Strategy (FY13-16) for Malawi, which is fully aligned to
the Africa Regional Strategy, the MGDS II and the ERP. The new CAS aims to contribute to
Malawi’s efforts toward a more diversified, competitive, shock-resilient socioeconomic growth
through the following pillars: i) Promoting Sustainable, Diversified, and Inclusive Growth; ii)
Enhancing Human Capital and Reducing Vulnerabilities; and, iii) Mainstreaming Governance
for Enhanced Development Effectiveness. The indicative lending program of the CAS envisaged
programmatic support through three consecutive DPOs. The DPO series is also responding to the
authorities’ commitment to implement the macroeconomic and structural reforms as well as
provide a platform for continuity of reforms in the medium term and ensure predictability of the
much needed financing. The program recognizes the importance of enhancing efficiency and
effectiveness of government spending; strengthening external oversight, transparency, audit
follow-up and internal controls; enhancing agriculture productivity and diversification,
addressing energy constraints, improving social safety nets and building the country’s statistical
capacity in pushing forward poverty reduction and the inclusive growth agenda.

       Tentative financing
Source:                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
IDA Grant                                                                             50
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specify)
                                                                      Total


                                                4
       Tranches (if applicable)
                                                                                         ($m.)
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total

       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be responsible for overall implementation of DPO 1 as well
as for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and
agencies. The MoF has experience in coordinating and implementing DPO programs as
evidenced by the implementation of the PRSC I-III and RRDPG. The institutional arrangements
for the preparation and execution of the DPO 1 fall within the framework of the MGDS II and
CABS. The Bank’s supervision of the DPO series is aligned with the CABS biannual review
meetings. In addition to two joint reviews, the Bank also participates in IMF missions to monitor
progress on the macroeconomic framework.

       Risks and Risk Mitigation

Three main risks could influence the expected outcomes of the proposed operation:

a) Macro-fiscal risks and vulnerabilities derived in part from the domestic risks such as adverse
weather conditions and policy slippages, and risks associated with the global environment, including
international fuel and food price hikes. The country remains vulnerable to severe weather conditions,
especially drought and floods, which always affects agricultural output and the overall GDP growth.
Slippages in policy implementation and structural reforms or policy reversals risks need to be
mitigated, especially in the context of a highly contested political environment in view of their
potential impact on the macroeconomic stability. The country also faces the risk of a potential
spillover from the global economy, including stagnation of euro area and world growth, a substantial
fall in non-oil commodity prices, and a reduction in aid flows. The Authorities mitigation plans
include measures to mobilize domestic revenue, to leverage on private sector resources and intensify
the export diversification drive. Prudent fiscal stance and the maintenance of a flexible exchange rate
policy will also provide key anchors for external sustainability. In the event of shortages in revenues
the authorities have committed to make necessary but better targeted expenditure cuts in the budget.
In addition, the IMF and the Bank are maintaining an on-going dialogue with the authorities on
macro-fiscal policy issues, which will help detect potential threats early on.

(b) Political environment risk: The risk of political volatility is high in context of a contested
political environment in the country, which have a potential of changing the course of reforms.
The recent loss of popular support for the economic reforms being implemented by the GoM, has
manifested itself in calls by the opposition parties and consumer organizations alike for policy
reversals, especially the floatation of the Kwacha and the automatic price adjustment for fuel..
FISP related reforms supported by this operation will not be easy to implement since FISP is
highly politicized. These risks will partly be mitigated by the stabilization of the economy
through containment of inflationary pressures and the Kwacha depreciation. A better
communication by the government on how the policy reforms are having some positive impacts
                                                  5
(thus the need for time to let the reform work) and on measures being undertaken to cushion the
poor will help calm the voices of concern.

(c) Implementation capacity risks. The systemic problem of capacity in continues to pose a risk to
the reform program and may cause delays in implementation of some of the reform measures
supported by this operation. Weak institutional capacity at the local government level is a serious
challenge. Poor management of the public finances and frequent macroeconomic policy reversals
make these economic vulnerabilities worse. Corruption and fraud pose a serious challenge in the
country’s development as it impedes service delivery and exacerbate inequality and poverty in
Malawi society. To address this risk in the short term, the Bank intends to increase its engagement at
the technical level to ensure the implementation of the reforms. In addition, the DPs are supporting
the GoM through a combination of capacity building and technical support, including support for
statistics and monitoring and evaluation. Specifically, the risks can be mitigated by the pace of
reforms supported by the implementation of a more harmonized PFM program under the Public
Finance and Economic Management Multi-Donor Trust Fund and the proposed series.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
       Poverty and Social Impacts

Overall, the proposed policy actions supported by this operation are likely to have positive
impacts on welfare and its distribution. As spelled out in the MGDS II, weak macroeconomic
and public finance management systems and poor governance are perceived to be critical causes
of poverty since weaknesses, especially in PFM, usually lead to inefficiencies in public spending,
limited controls in the use of public resource and fiscal losses, which affect the GoM’s ability to
deliver public services to the poor. Strengthening of macroeconomic and public finance
management will enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use;
reduce the outstanding payment arrears (or minimize the accumulation of new ones) in the
medium term, which is expected to improve the GoM’s capacity to more effectively manage its
resources and the savings generated could be used for investment purposes, especially in social
sectors. More investments are also likely to benefit lower income groups through job creation in
constructions of public infrastructure and related activities.

Reforms under the proposed operation will support efforts to enhance agriculture
productivity as well as strengthen social safety net systems to help bring about quick gains
for the poor and most vulnerable groups. The proposed measures will enhance productivity of
smallholder farmers through use of quality seeds and modern ways of farming, and will also help
improve the coordination mechanisms for the provision of social safety nets as well as the
targeting of existing programs with a view to reduce the number of duplicate payments from
different sources for the same beneficiaries. The improved targeting is especially important for
women as poverty incidence for women tends to be higher. This will help improve the welfare of
low-income groups, especially women and children, by ensuring that those exposed to shocks at
any given time are reached on time. The improvements of statistical capacity and M&E systems
will allow better targeting of social program in future.

Measures to eliminate implicit subsidy in electricity will result to higher tariffs for
consumers of electricity. In view of the fact that the poorest two income quintiles have close to
zero households with electricity access, and the middle quintile only a one percent access rate,

                                                  6
the impact of tariff hikes will affect mostly those in the higher level of incomes. The tariff
increases would also increase the prices of other household consumption goods, which would put
additional pressure on all household budgets, even those poor without electricity connections.
Electricity subsidies in Malawi are highly untargeted due to a combination of its flat tariff
structure and the positive relationship between consumption and income. Considering Malawi’s
continuing inflation and exchange rate increases and the persistent large gap between tariffs and
the cost of electricity supply, would require further tariffs increases. There are two broad options
for the tariff adjustment: a flat increase or a differentiated increase that allows lower tariffs for
lower consumption levels. Creating a lifeline tariff instead, in which tariffs are increased more
for higher-consuming (generally richer) households than for lower-consuming households,
would cushion the direct impact of tariff increases on the poorest electrified households, reduce
the total cost of subsidies, and make the distribution of electricity subsidies less regressive than it
is currently.

        Environment Aspects

The specific actions supported by the DPO series are not expected to cause significant effects on
the environment, forests, and other natural resources of Malawi. The policies supported under
this programmatic DPO largely address institutional and regulatory reforms. For instance, the
macroeconomic and public finance management reforms should lead to more efficient use of
public resources, which may indirectly generate environmental benefits in the form of better use
of modern technologies. While the reforms in the energy sector are focusing on institutions
(fiscal sustainability of provision of electricity) and the regulatory environment, there are
potential indirect effects. Adjustments of electricity tariffs to levels that reflect cost of supply
could eventually enable ESCOM to start some of its investment projects, which could have
environmental impacts. Reforms related to agriculture also have a potential of indirect effects on
environment but the related environmental issues have already been taken care of through the on-
going sector lending operation.

         Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Appolenia Mbowe
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5394+3203
Fax:
Email: ambowe@worldbank.org
Location: Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact:        Randson P. Mwadiwa
Title:          Secretary to the Treasury
Tel:            (265) 1 788 781
Email:          stfinance@finance.gov.mw

        For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500


                                                  7
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                         8
