                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                             Report No.: AB7221
                                              (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name                     Malawi Development Policy Operation 1
 Region                             AFRICA
 Country                            Malawi
 Sector                             General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                                    (20%);General industry and trade sector (20%);Central
                                    government administration (20%);General public
                                    administration sector (20%);Public administration- Other
                                    social services (20%)
 Operation ID                       P133663
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
 Implementing Agency
 Date PID Prepared                  September 27, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        April 5, 2013
 Estimated Date of Board            May 28, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 Other Decision {Optional}          Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                    other decisions are added

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The new administration under President Mrs. Joyce Banda, which came into office in April
2012, has made good progress in the implementation of the critical macroeconomic and
structural reforms since May 2012. These reforms have facilitated the removal of market
distortions (especially in the petroleum sub-sector and foreign exchange markets) and the
strengthening of the macroeconomic management while putting in place programs to cushion the
poor and the most vulnerable from the impact of the adjustment process. The Government of
Malawi’s (GoM) efforts to address some of the governance concerns and the normalization of
relations with its neighbors and the international community, has yielded positive results as
evidenced by improved relations with Mozambique and the resumption of the budget support
and significant increases in aid inflows, in the form of dedicated grants.

While the foundation for the economic recovery has been laid, the recovery remains rather
fragile buffeted by a much more difficult external environment. The significantly reduced
tobacco production in the 2011/12 season meant much lower than projected accumulation of
foreign exchange from tobacco sales and inadequate supply of foreign exchange in the system,
which in turn started to exert significant pressures on the kwacha since September 2012. The
country is also trying to respond to the impact of drought conditions in the southern half of the
country, which has left close to 2 million people under threat of being food insecure in the period
before the next harvest in March 2013. The recovery process also continues to be affected by
inadequate power supply, the rising cost of doing business and the fact that the economy
continues to remain undiversified.
In spite of these challenges, the Government of Malawi remains committed to these
reforms. Through the Public Finance and Economic Management Reform Program (PFEMRP),
the authorities continue to implement critical PFM reforms to improve the credibility of budget,
strengthen internal controls, address the domestic payment arrears problem, improve the
timeliness of follow-up on audit recommendations and tax administration, all of which are
supported by this operation. The authorities are also pushing forward reforms to improve the
regulatory and legal environment for the energy sector with a view to create a conducive
environment that would attract Independent Power Producers, while at the same time adjusting
the electricity tariffs towards the regional rates. To support the agriculture modernization and
transformation of smallholder subsistence farmers, the authorities are in the process of reviewing
the important legislative and regulatory pieces, including the Seeds Act, to create conducive
environment for smallholder farmer to be able to participate effectively in the growth and
poverty reduction processes, as well as improve efficiency in the fertilizer market.

Evidence from 2010/10 Integrated Household Survey clearly indicate that growth has not
been as inclusive, especially in the rural areas, where poverty has increased from 55.6 percent in
2005, to 56.6 percent in 2011. While poverty has remained stagnant nationally, urban poverty
has been reduced from 25.4 percent in 2005 to 17.3 percent in 2011. This gain was
counterbalanced by a slight increase in rural poverty from 55.9 percent to 56.6 percent.
Evidently, improvements in consumption and welfare in urban have been significant and broad
based, which reflect that fact that the urban population have responded positively to the GoM’s
policies implemented over the recent past. Despite large state outlays targeting the rural
communities (eg. Farm input Subsidy Program and extension services), real consumption of the
poorest in rural areas has declined and income inequality has increased from 0.34 to 0.38. There
is therefore the need to promote the leading role for rural growth and development, with a
substantial focus on smallholder agriculture, tourism development, infrastructure, and other non-
farm employment creation in support of a more inclusive growth agenda. Efforts are also
underway to improve the efficiency in the coordination of social safety net programs through the
harmonization of targeting system, maintaining a unified national registry of beneficiaries,
among others, with increased focus on more productive social protection interventions.


       Proposed Objective(s)

The operation aims to: i) strengthen macroeconomic and public financial management through
reforms geared towards improving budget credibility, strengthening controls, reporting and
oversight of government finances, as well as improving tax administration; and, ii) promoting
economic development and diversification through the implementation of reforms that focuses
on removing constraints to growth (e.g. energy) and promoting economic diversification through
agriculture modernization and transformation, improving statistics, and enhancing efficiency in
the provision of social protection. The rationale behind the proposed operation is the need to help
the government consolidate the implementation of the macroeconomic and structural reforms
supported through the Rapid Response Program as well as to prepare the ground for longer term
structural reforms in the post-2014.

        Preliminary Description

The Development Policy Operation series will focus on two policy areas below:

i) Strengthening Macroeconomic and Public Financial Management: Where support will
focus on broad reform program on macroeconomic management and the management of the
public resources. Specifically, it covers two specific reform objectives, namely: i) supporting
macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation through clearance of payment arrears and
improvement in tax administration; and ii) enhancing the efficiency and transparency of the
public financial management by improving controls, reporting and oversight of government
finances at national and sub-national levels.
     Prior action 1: The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, has validated the
       outstanding payment arrears and developed the arrears clearance plan. This will help
       support the fiscal consolidation process and restore the credibility of the budget.
     Prior action 2: The Recipient, through the Malawi Revenue Authority, has rolled out of
       self-assessment scheme (SAS) for filing tax returns by Large Tax Payers. This will help
       improve the domestic resource mobilization to restore fiscal sustainability and credibility
       of the budget.
     Prior action 3: The Recipient, through the Minister of Finance, has approved the Budget
       Policy Framework Paper for 2013/14. This will help improve the use of MTEF as a
       strategic planning and budgeting tool and will also aid the government in addressing
       efficiency issues in the budget over the medium term, which will ultimately create the
       much needed fiscal space.
     Prior action 4: The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, has submitted Treasury
       Minutes for 2006/2007 to Parliament. This will help strengthen accountability and
       minimize waste in the use of public resources through timely follow-up of audit
       recommendations.
     Prior action 5: The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, has instructed 10 largest
       spending ministries1 to ensure that their internal audit committees are functional as
       evidenced by the issuance of IAC meeting minutes. This will help strengthen the
       institutional mechanisms for the follow-up of audit recommendations and reduce
       incidences of unresolved audit queries.

ii) Promoting Economic Development and Diversification: Focus will be on supporting the
recovery process and the drive towards a more broad based and inclusive growth through
measures to strengthen reforms in the energy sector, promote the modernization and
transformation of the agricultural sector, strengthen the country’s statistical capacity and
improved the targeting of social safety net system.



1
 Health, Education, Agriculture, Finance, Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), Transport and Public Works,
Home Affairs, Defense, Local Government, and Energy and Mines
      Prior action 6: The Recipient, through the Malawi Energy Regulatory Authority, has
       started to undertake monthly reviews of the Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula for
       electricity. This will enable the Utility Company to meet its operational costs and more
       closer to the average regional rate to attract private sector players in the market.
      Prior action 7: The Recipient, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security,
       has assessed the legal and regulatory framework for quality seed production. This will
       improve the legal and regulatory framework for seeds production, marketing and quality
       control.
      Prior action 8: The Recipient, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, has
       revised the Farm Input Subsidy Program (FISP) fertilizer procurement modalities with a
       refined bid evaluation methodology. This will improve efficiency in the fertilizer market
       and help reduce the fiscal burden.
      Prior action 9: The Recipient, through the Office of the President and Cabinet, has
       finalized and approved the National Social Support Program. This will help improve
       efficiency and targeting of social safety net system and move towards more productive
       social protection.


       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

The proposed operation is expected to have positive or neutral impact on poverty and social
conditions in Malawi. Strengthening of macroeconomic and public financial management will
enhance efficiency of spending as well as efficiency in the delivery of key services. These
reforms will also help reduce wastage of resources and improving accountability in the use of
public resources. This is expected to improve the GoM’s capacity to more effectively manage its
resources and the savings generated could be used for investment purposes. These investments
are also likely to benefit lower income groups through job creation in constructions of public
infrastructure, among others.

Reforms under this program will therefore help improve the cost effectiveness in the
procurement of fertilizer under FISP and the policy environment for enhancing seed production.
The proposed measures will enhance productivity of smallholder farmers through use of quality
seeds and modern ways of farming, and will also help improve the coordination mechanisms for
the provision of social safety nets as well as the targeting of existing programs, which will help
bring about quick gains for the poor and most vulnerable groups. The improved targeting is
especially important for women as poverty incidence for women tends to be higher. This will
help improve the welfare of low-income groups, especially women and children, by ensuring that
those exposed to shocks at any given time are reached on time. The improvements of statistical
capacity and M&E systems will allow for better targeting of social program in the future.
Reforms in the energy sector are likely to have an intended negative impact on the poor through
rising prices. It should be noted that the country’s electrification rate is very low at about 8.7
percent- as such majority of the poor do not have access to electricity.
Environment Aspects

The specific actions supported the DPO series are not expected to cause significant effects on the
environment, forests, and other natural resources of Malawi. The policies supported under this
programmatic DPO largely touching on institutional and regulatory environment. Economic
governance reforms should lead to more efficient use of public resources, which may indirectly
generate environmental benefits in the form of better use of modern technologies.
Environmental issues related to irrigation and agriculture intensification activities are already
being taken care of through the existing sector investment lending operations, which have their
own safeguard instruments and proper monitoring of environmental issues. While reforms in the
energy sector are focusing on improving institutions (cost effectiveness in the provision of
electricity) and the regulatory environment, there are potential indirect effects.


       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
IDA Grant                                                                             50
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specify)
                                                                      Total

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Appolenia Mbowe
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5394+3203
Fax: (265) 1 773 90
Email: ambowe@worldbank.org
Location: Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact:       Randson P. Mwadiwa
Title:         Secretary to Treasury
Tel:           (265) 1 788 781
Email:         stfinance@finance.gov.mw

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
