tcl/4
Supplemental Letter
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(An~e-  6     ,2013
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Grant No. H849-M
Economic Recovery Development Policy Financing
Section 5.01 of the General Conditions:
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the Financing Agreement (Financing Agreement) of this date between the
Republic of Malawi (the Recipient) and International Development Association (Association) providing
financing  (Financing)  for  the  above-captioned  Project, and  the  General Conditions
(General Conditions) made applicable to the Financing Agreement, I am writing on behalf of the
Member Country to set forth the following:
I.     We understand and agree that, for purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
the Member Country is required by the Association:
(a)    to report "long-term external debt" (as defined in the World Bank's Debtor Reporting
System Manual, dated January 2000 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to
notify the Association of new "loan commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30 days
after the end of the quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the Association of
"transactions under loans" (as defined in the DRSM) once a year, not later than March 31 of the year
following the year covered by the report; and
(b)    to: (i) notify the  Association  at least three  months prior to incurring
any non-concessional long-term external debt, of its intention to incur such debt, together
with the proposed terms of such debt; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Member Country on the matter. For purposes of this
paragraph, "non-concessional long-term external debt" means any long-term external debt
(as defined in the DRSM), but excluding private debt (as so defined), with an estimated Credit element
(GE) calculated in the manner published from time to time by the Association
(see, www.worldbank.org/ida under "reports") of less than (i) 35% or (ii) the GE for determining
concessionality established by the International Monetary Fund in any Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility arrangement or Policy Support Instrument with the Member Country in effect at the time of
such notice, whichever is higher.


﻿2
2.   We represent that no defaults exist in respect of any external debt (as defined in the DRSM). It is
our understanding that, in making the Financing, the Association may rely on the representations set
forth or referred to in this letter.
3.   Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized representative of the
Association sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
BY,
Authorized Representative
AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BA      r      R
Authorized Representative


