Document of
The World Bank
For  OMCAL USE ONLY
e * /G3 5> Sc
Rqmopt No. 4977-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
REGIONAL MANAGIMENT SCROOL (CESAG) PROECT
October 31, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This d_MUM  lm s rut*"  ilmid        un m'y be u   by redWpels . b  Inhe perf_mue f |
1OUdai du«. Ilu entmis uQ na oi ls.IS be dl Cd wllbt Wd-IMck suâ_batbu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA (Communauté Financiaire Africaine) franc is fixed with respect to
the French franc (FF1 = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar.
In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$1.00        =    CFAF 490
CFAF 1 million =    US$2,041
ABBREVIATIONS AXD ACRONYMS
BCEAO     Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
BOAD      West African Development Bank (Banque Ouest Africaine de
Développement)
CAMPC     African and Mauritian Training Center (Centre Africain et
Mauricien de Perfectionnement des Cadres)
CCCE      French Development Fund (Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique)
CEAO      West African Economic Community (Communauté Economique de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
CEDEAO    Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) (Communauté
Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
CESAG    -Regional Management School for the CEAO (Centre Africain d'Etudes
Supérieures en Gestion)
COFEB     West African Center for Banking Education and Training (Centre
Ouest Africain de Formation et d'Etudes Bancaires)
ENA       National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration)
ESGE      Business Management School (Ecole Supérieure de Gestion
d' Entreprises)
FAC       French Aid Agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération)
FCD       CEAO's Community Development Fund (Fonds Communautaire de
Développement)
FOSIDEC   CEAO's Loan Cuarantee Fund (Fonds de Solidarité d'Intervention
pour le Développement Communautaire)
IPGP      Institute of Productivity and Management (Institut de
Productivité et de Gestion Provisionnelle)
OCAM      Joint African and Mauritian Organization (Organisation Commune
Africaine et Mauricienne)
TCR       Regional Cooperation Tax (Taxe de Coopération Régionale)
UDAO      West African Customs Union (replaced by UDEAO in 1966) (Union
Douanière entre les Etats de l'Afrique Occidentale)
UDEAO     West African Customs Union (replaced by CEAO in 1973)(Union
Douanière des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest) (remplacée par la
CEAO en 1973)
UMOA      West African Monetary Union (Union Monétaire Ouest Africaine)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program (Programe des Nations Unies
Pour le Dévelopment)
UNCTAD    United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (Conférence
des Nations Unies sur le Commerce et le Développement)
USAID     United States Agency for International Development (L'Agence des
Etats-Unis pour le Développement International)
Fiscal Year
Senegal: July 1 - June 30
CEAO: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CESAG PROJECT
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS CONTAINKU IN PROJECT FILE ...................   ..........    iii-iv
BASIC DATA ...................................*..                            v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY ..............................   vi-vlii
I.   TRE ECONOMIC SETTING 1*.........                     . .....            I
A. Introduction ...        .... .. .....             ........1
B.  The Economies of CEAO Countries  1.........
II.  THE INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT                           . .                 2
A.  Regional Cooperation .. .... .                    .               2
B. CEAO ...... g........... 0  .............                          2
III. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPHENT. ....          ...     ....... ........          5
a.  Background ...................... ..      ....        ...         5
B.  Training Needs S.......                             .5
C. Management Training Institutions in CEAO          .                6
D.  A Strategy for Management Training                                7
E.  The Bank Group's Experience vith Past Lending
in CEAO Meuber Countries .................. ;.......             8
IV. TUE PROJECT 9* .... .............9
A.  Objectives .... ...    ...    .............         ....          9
B.  Project Description....                                           9
C. Project Inputs .1                                                 il
D.  Organization and Management of the CESAG  .............          12
E. Legal Framework .....13
V.  PROJECT CW5T AND FTNANCING PLAN...                           ...        15
A.  Cost of the Project................                              15
B.  Financing Plan ............        ..16
C. Project Recurrent Costs .........16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Senegal from April 20 to 30, 1982. The mission members vere
Messrs. A. Verspoor (economist and mission leader), P. Bussat (architect),
C. Vuylsteke (lavyer) and R. Makharita (management training specialist).
The report vas updated in September 1985 by Mrs. T. Kolan (economist).
Mesdames G. Monaghan, J. Angers and A. Joseph assisted vith the preparation
of the report.
This document bs a resuieddisbuuon a4 amybe und bynxcipiem oni in dt perfonnxmoe f
thui ofica dd ietls omwno  may not otheiwr  be dileed witout Wodd Bnkautbomati



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEM NTATION .....................................................  17
A.  Project Preparation . ................................ .         17
B.  Transition ........................................................  17
C.  Project Management ......* ...... ......................         17
D.  Sites ..........................................................  18
E.  Procurement .......................................................  18
F.  Specialist Services and Fellowships ..................           19
G.  Special Account ... ................ ...... ...............      19
B.  Disbursements ......................................................  19
I.  Evaluation ...............                                       20
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . ................ .......... a.......       20
A.  Benefits .........................................................  20
B.  Risks ..........................................................  20
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACSED AND RECONMENDATIONS ....................            21
ANNES
1-1 Distribution of GDP (X) in CE&O Member States (1983)
1-2  Population (1983) and Structure of the Labor Force (1981)
2-1  Distribution Among Menber States of Contributions to FCD and
Compensatory Payments
2-2  Income and Expenditures of CEAO and FOSIDEC
3-1 Demand/Supply of African Managers in CEAO Member States:  Senior Level
3-2  Demand/Supply of African Managers in CE&O Member States:  Middle Level
4-1  Suumary of Specialist Services
4-2  Sumary of Fellovsbips
4-3  Organizational Chart CESAG
5-1  Detailed Cost Table
5-2  CESAG Recurrent Costs by School Year
6-1  Implementation Schedule
6-2  Estinated IDA Disbursement Schedule
MAP
West Africa: (CEAO) IBRD No. 16667R: West African Economic Community



- iii -
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
Document Code
1.   "Etude sur le Centre africain d'études            (Doc. No. 127.026)
supérieures de management." (CESAM). Centre
du Commerce International (CNUCED/GATT/BIT).
3 vols. 1979.
2.  "CEAO.  CESAG; Centre africain d'études            (Doc. No. 220.314(2))
supérieures en gestion." Louvain-la-Neuve,
mai 1982.
3.   Evaluation and Financing of Community Projects.  (Doc. No. 220.314(3))
CEAO-CICF. November 1981.
4.  "Compte de gestion; 1980, 1981 et 1982."  CEAO.
(W. Africa-ECWA/CEAO Yearly Financial Reports;
1980-1982).
5.  "Conférence des Chefs d'Etat; Accord               (Doc. No. 220.314(5))
constitutif du Centre africain d'études
supérieures en gestion (CESAG)." CEA0. 1983.
6.  "Protocole d'accord entre la Communauté            (Doc. No. 129.919)
économique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO) et
la République du Sénégal concernant les
modalités et conditions de transfert du
patrimoine de 1'ESGE au CESAG." CEAO. 1983.
7.   "Convention d'exécution du protocole d'accord    (Doc. No. 220.314(14))
concernant les conditions et modalités de
transfert du patrimoine de l'ESGE au CESAG
entre la République du Sénégal, la Communauté
Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO) et
le Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en
Gestion" (CESAG). 1983.
8.   CEAO.  Procurement Guidelines.  May 1982.         (Doc. No. 220.314 (7))
9.   "CESAG.  Avant-projet; plan de masse.             (Doc. No. 220.314 (8))
Modifications demandes par la Banque
mondiale." CEAO. October 1981.
10.  "CESAG.  Avant-projet; administration             (Doc. No. 220.314 (9))
(Rez-de-chaussée). Modificatif plan." CEAO.
October 1981.



- iv -
11.  "CESAG. Avant-projet; administration (ler          (Doc. No. 220.314 (10))
étage). Modificatif plan." CEAO. October
1981.
12.  "CESAG.  Avant-projet; salle de classe -           (Doc. No. 220.314 (11))
hibergement (Rez-de-chaussée). Modifications
demandées par la Banque mondiale." CEAO.
October 1981.
13.  "CESAG.  Avant-projet; hébergement - salles de   (Doc. No. 220.314 (12))
cours (ler étage). Modifications demandées par
la Banque mondiale." CEAO. October 1981.
14.  "CESAG.  Avant-projet; hébergement - salles de   (Doc. No. 220.314 (13))
cours (Façades - coupes). Modifications
demandées par la Banque mondiale." CEAO.
October 1981. SAG
15.  "Plan topographique du terrain prévu pour le       (Doc. No. 220.314 (15>)
CESAG (Echelle: 1/200e)." Dakar (Ville de).
Dakar, November 1982.
16.  "CESAG.  Annexe d'actualisation f nanc±3re a       (Doc. No. 129.940 (B))
l'étude de faisabilité de Mai 1982." CE&O.
BIT, February 1984.
WAPED
October 1985



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Country Data (1983)
Priuiaiy           z              z GNP
School        Labor Force        in Non-
CEAO Member  Population    GNP/    Enrollment          Outaide  bI   Agriculture
Countries    (million)   Capita       Ratio       Agriculture -       Sectors
Burkina          6.5          180       27 a/            18                59
Ivory Coast      9.5          710       79 -             21                73
Mali             7.2          160       23               27                54
Mauritania       1.6          480       33 a             31                66
Niger            6.1          240       27                9                67
Senegal          6.2          440       54               23                79
Enterprises and Managers (1979) c/
No. of High &
'No. of            Middle Level                 z
Enterprises            Managers             Expatriates
Burkina                 1,225                   1,490                 48
Ivory Coast             5,790                 23,290                  40
Mali                    1,080                   2,550                  30
Mauritania                600                   1,020                  34
Niger                     950                  2,950                  30
Senegal                4,580                  11,440                  16
Total                  14&225                 42&740                  33
a/ Represents 1982-83 school year.
b! 1981 data.
cJ Latest survey done in 1979. No update available.



- vi
S1EGiAL
CESAG PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SVIO4AR!
Borrover:           Governuent of the Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:        Centre Africain dtEtudes Supérieures en Gestion
Credit Amount:      SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
On-lending Terms:   Governuent vould onlend the Credit proceeds to CESAG on
standard IDA terms.
]Project
Description:        The proposed project vould help establish a regional
institution for training and upgrading high- and
umiddle-level managerial staff of private and parapublic
sector enterprises in the six CEAO inmber countries
(Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and
Senegal) and of other neighboring West African
countries. This regional institution, the Regional
Management School for CEAO (Centre d'Etudes
Africain Supérieures en Gestion, CESAG), vould be
located in Dakar, and vould absorb the programa nov
being conducted at the Senegalese management training
school (Ecole Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprise, ESŒE)
established in 1979 under IDA's Third Education Project
(Credit 908-SE). Training African managers and
promoting regional cooperation are both long standing
priorities for Bank Group lending which would be
supported by the proposed project, building on the
Senegalese achool's considerable achievements.
Facilities at the Senegalese school vould be espanded
under the proposed project and made available to CESAG.
The principal funetions of CESAG vould be to: (a)
establish broadly based graduate-level programs to
train managerial personnel in private and parapublic
enterprises; (b) organize short upgrading programs in
specific subjects for managers; (c) serve as a resource
center for other institutions l CEAO member countries
which offer management training programs, by setting up
appropriate courses for teaching staff and providing
assistance in developing training materials; (d) serve
as a research center for developuent of management
systems adapted to the African environment; and (e)
provide consulting services in the planning and
implementation of organization and management systems.



- vii -
Estiuated Project Costa:
(net of taxes and duties)
Local     Poreign        Total
--US$ million equivalent--
Civil Works                         0.59        0.79         1.38
Furniture                           0.05        0.08         0.13
Equipment                             ...       0.18         0.18
Professional Fees                   0.02        0.05         0.07
Specialist Services                  ...        2.28         2.28
Fellovships                          ...        0.41         0.41
Incremental Recurrent Costa         0.64        0.20         0.84
TOTAL BASE COST                 1330           9         599
Contingencies - Physical            0.07        0.11         0.18
- Price              0.27         0.78        1.05
0.34        0.89         1.23
TOTAL PROJECT COST              1.64        4.88         6.52
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign        Total
-=U$ million equivalent-
IDA                                0.86         4.64         5.50
CEAO                                0.78        0.24.        1.02  a/
TOTAL                          1.64         4            L6.52
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
FY86        FY87        FY88        FY89       FY90
US$ %iilli                  -
Armual              0.4          1.8        2.0         1.0         0.3
Cumulative          0.4         2.2         4.2         5.2        5.5
Estimated Project
Completion Date: December 31, 1989
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable
a/   Representing 100% of recurrent costs over the life of the
project (four years).



- viii -
B nefits
and Riaka:          The proposed project vould increase the *upply of
high-lev l managerial staff for private and parapublic
sector enterprises ln CEAO member countries. lu the
longer tore, the project would contribute to the
replacement of exptriate managerial staff by African
personnel, and to the introduction of business
orgnization and management modela adapted to specific
niods of the local enviromant; this vould have tbe
affect of reducing comtep increasing productivity, and
nihanciug the competitiveness of African enterprises.
Th  main risk of the project relates to the ability
of CEAO to function as a financially seund entity and
the implications that negative avents uight have on
the affective continuation of CESAG as a CEAO entity. A
second risk in the possibility that CESÂC t.aching
programa, es often happens Lu management and
administration achools, may become too ticoretical and
divorced from the reality vith vhicb African managers
uaNt deal. R.garding the firet risk, la the avent the
CEAO vould not be in à position to continue to support
CESAC. management of the *chool vould be returned to
Snegal and thi achool vould contiaue to function as a
Senagalese .ntity. TIh second risk in mitigated by the
technical assistance for developmet and lplementation
of the teaching program built lu the project, as vcll
as close supervision by IDA.
Hap: IBRD 16667R
'A.
October 1985



SENECAL
CESAG PROJECT
I. THE ECOUOMIC SETYING
A. Introduction
1.01      The Veut Africa Economie Comuaity (Caoounautl Econouique de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest - CIAO) comprises six franeophone couatrles -
Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mli. MNuritania, Nger,, nd Senepal. The Coamltye,
established ln 1973. is lnteuded to promot. economic develop..nt in e*ch of
It. unsber states through regionul *conomic cooperation. Although CMAO
couatries differ wurkedly lu dize. econoaie potential and performance, they
have a umber of co on features because of uluilar econaouic ad ecological
condition. ethtic sffinitieu. sud a common colonial history.
B. The Economies of CEIO Countrias
1.02      Th. total population of C1AD countries  as .stiuated et 37.1
million lu 1983. Th. population in projecied to grov at an averape rate of
3.02 per year until the end of the century.  Apart from Ivory Coant, uhose
per capita incOaO of US$710 1  munsg the highest lo sub-Sharm Africa. a11
the. mmubers are poor Sahelian countris. Il Their prtomrily agricuttural
conoumles are bostage to uupredictable ratLf al and generally unfavorable
climatic conditions. Maufacturing coutribute. les. thlu 152 to CDP la all
CIAO countries. but the servic sector ln bocoSLng Incrsasingly Importent
and in nov generatlng nearly half of CDP la Seaegal, Mall, sud Ivory Coast.
Although non-agricultural vag. employient bas bee  lmcresfrg steadlly, tbc
agricultural sector bhs reuained the mulatay of tbi economies of CIAO
coautries Lu respect of  pîcSymat, sud ouly »bout 20X of tbe labor force
vorks outudde agriculture.  The structure of production lu CEAO countries
Lu shown lu Annex 1-1, Distribution of GD? (Z) lu CEAO ember States
(1983), *d the structure of the labor force la uhowu lu Anue 1-2.
Population (1983) and Structure of the Labor Force (1981).
1.03      Atteupto to accelerate economic developunt ln CIAO are b.lng
coustraiued by the poor developmeut of humam resources. Literacy levals
and primary sachool enrollueut ratios are lov. Shortages of traiued high-
and uiddie-level staff are pervasive throughout the .couomy. but are
particularly severe in the publie sector. Economic management at the
macroeconomic and sectoral levelu ls poor not ouly because of the lack of
qualified top aduinistrators, but also because of underntaffng lu opacifiec
areas, notably of uiddie-level technicians, accountants, auditors. *ud
Il  Per capita incomes in the other CEAO countries in 1983 verne estiuated
as follova: Burkina, US$180; Mali, US$160; Mauritaniu. US$480; Niger,
US$240; and Senegal, US$440.



- 2 -
supervisors. In the private and parapublic sectors, the lack of
t.cbnlcally skilled vorkers ln all sectors and the lack of experienced
mnagers and supervisors have led to the employment of a large number of
expatriate professional and managerial staff.
1.04      Whlle thune constraints are indeed formidable obstacles to
development, thore in considerable scope to improve economic performance.
Regional economic cooperation can help to overcome some of the constraints
imposed by the limitations of national markets, while sound economic
policies and improvementu in the quality of business management could leat
to increased productlvity in public and private enterprises.
II. THE INSTITUIIONAL CONTEXT
A. Reglonal Cooporation
2.01      The potential economic and political benefits of reglonal
economic cooperation have bean obvlous to Vent African leaders since
lndependence. There have been many attempts to establish reglonal
organlzations and the results have generally been positive. The first
attempt vas the West African CustOmu Union (Union Douanière entre les Etats
de l'Afrique Occidentale - UDAO), a customu union established In 1959 and
replaced in 1966 by a new West African Custous Union (Union Douanière des
Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest - UDEAO). In the uonetary field, cooperation
han been very succesful through the Vent African Monetary Union (Union
Monétalre Ouest Africaine - UDA).  The seven UJOA member countries -
Benin, Burkina, Ivory Coest, Mali, Niger. Senegal and Togo - share: a
comon Central Bank (Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest -
BCEAO); a Development Bank (Banque Ouest Africaine de Développeumet -
BOAD); currency (CFA franc), which is freely convertible vith the French
franc; and intereat rate policy and monetary policy. The BOAD's
organization bas been strengthened vith the Bank Croup'. techalcal and
financial support (Credit 969-WUAF, 1980, Credit 1331-WAP and Loan 2242-VWA,
1983). lu 1976, several of the reglon'. anglophone and francophone states
joined to establish a frue trade sont, the Economlc Communlty of West
African Slytes (Comunauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest -
CEDEAO). - The CEDEAO has, hovever, been les, active than other regional
organizations. and community institutions have developed slowly.
B. CEAO
2.02      Backfround.  CEAD vas establlbhed In April 1973 to promote
economic development lu the member states through the creation of a Co mon
Market snd trade liberalization for agricultural and industrial producta.
It replaced the UDEAO, which had essentially the same custoes union
2t   Nembers of the CEDEAO are Benin, Burkina, Cape Verde, The Gambia,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia. Mali. Mauritanla,
Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo.



- 3 -
arrangements but failed to distribute its financial support for development
in the member countries in a mutually acceptable way. This vas largely
because there vas no mechanism to assure the pooling and equitable
distribution of resources. CEAO was designed to correct this shortcoming,
and provides special assistance to the poorer and less developed member
states through compensatory payments (para 2.04(b)) and financial support
for development projects.
2.03      Institutional structure.  The Conference of the Heads of State,
which meets once a year, is CEAO's supreme authority, although many
operational decisions are made by the Council of Ministers, which meets
twice a year. CEAO Secretariat is responsible for the day-to-day
management of operations. In 1978, CEAO created a Loan Guarantee Fund
(Fonds de Solidarité dtIntervention pour le Développement Communautaire -
FOSIDEC) to Wuarantee external borrowing by CEAO member countries or by
state-owned enterprises. CEAO Secretariat has functioned efficiently so
far and plays a very active role in preparing and promoting Community
projects.
2.04      Policy instruments.  CEA0 has three main instruments to carry out
its mandate:
(a)  Regional Cooperation Tax (Taxe de Coopération Régionale - TCR).
This is a lower, preferential tax levied in lieu of the usual
import duties on industrial products originating in CEAO
countries. The TCR provides an important incentive for domestic
manufacturers in the community. It should be noted, however,
that Ivory Coast's share in intra-Community industrial trade
represents almost 802 of the total and Senegal's 15%, while that
of the less-developed members (Burkina, Mali, Mauritania, Niger)
together represent only about 5%.
(b)  Comnunity Development Fund (Fonds Communautaire de
Développement - FCD). The FCD is linked to the TCR system as a
coïnpensatory mechanism. Since duties on imports serve as the
primary source of govermnent revenue, especially in the less
industrialized CEAO countries, applying the TCR could result in
substantial revenue losses. The FCD allows a transfer of
resources from countries benefiting from the preferential
treatment to countries granting it, thereby assuring a fairly
equitable distribution of the advantages. Member states'
contributions to the FCD are based on their participation in the
trade of industrial products vithin the Community. Because of
their dominant economic positions, Ivory Coast and Senegal
contribute more than 90% of FCD's annual resources. About
two-thirds of the FCD resources are earmarked for compensatory
payments (para. 2.02); the remainder is used for development
financing purposes - mostly in the less developed member
countries for preinvestment studies-and for financing CEAO-
plannedi investment projects, which are mostly in support of rural
development (e.g., research, livestock promotion, extension
services), infrastructure, and training programs. Annex 2-1,
Distribution Among Member States of Contributions to FCD and



- 4 -
Compensatory Payments, shows the resource transfer by FCD between
member countries.
(c) Solidarity and Intervention Fund for the Development of the
Coumunity (Fonds de Solidarité et d'Intervention pour le
Développement Communautaire - FOSIDEC). Established in 1978,
FOSIDEC guarantees external borrovings by member states or
state-owned enterprises (or private enterprises under certain
conditions). FOSIDEC has an authorized capital of US$27.0
million equivalent, and its guarantee capacity is 10 times the
paid-in capital, which at the end of 1984 vas US$21.0 million
equivalent. FOSIDEC also finances feasibility studies for
directly productive projects and provides interest rate
subsidies. It may also borrov for re-lending purposes and may
participate in development ventures. Annex 2-2, Income and
Expenditures of CEAO and FOSIDEC, which shows FOSIDEC balance
sheets for 1983 and 1984, indicates a strong cash position at the
end of 1984, and also provides FOSIDEC budgets for 1983 and 1984.
2.05      Project financing.  CEAO support for development projects has
taken two forms.  First, CEAO provided assistance to projects in its member
countries in the form of grants amounting to more than CFAF 5 billion
<US$11.0 million) during the 1974-82 period. Second, CEAO has promoted a
number of regional projects. These include projects in agricultural
research, solar energy, and vater supply, and establishn#t of a number of
regional institutions for training high-level staff In the textile
industry, mining, geology, and oceanography, snd for training managers of
parapublic and private sector enterprises. Some external financial
sources, such as the Kuvait Fund and the OPEC Fund have given support to
these development projects in the form of loans and some have given support
in the form of grants (e.g., France). Others, such as the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and the European Economic Community (EEC), are
either actively involved in or considering project assistance.
2.06      CEAO's operating budget is financed by country contributions
according to a sharing formula in which Senegal and the Ivory Coast
contribute more than two-thirds of the budget. Implementation of all the
Community projects being promoted by CEAO (para 2.05) would result in
sizable incremental expenditures which would have to be funded from the
one-third of the FCD resources available for Community projects
(paras 2.04(b) and 2.05).  Projections of the budgetary implications of
these projects in terms of debt service and operating costs have caused
CEAO Secretariat to review the scope and design of some of these projects.
While there are still some uncertainties about designs and implementation
schedules, rough estiinates of expenditures for debt service and operating
costs have been made and suggest that by the end of the decade, CEAO vill
need to allocate about CFAF 2.0-3.0 billion (in constant 1983 prices) from
the FCD budget for these Community projects. CEAO appears to have
veathered the economie crises of the first half of the 1980e, and should be
able to meet its obligations in respect of Community projects provided
there is prudent financial management and careful project design. Further
details on the CEAO income and expenditures are provided in Annex 2-2.



- 5 -
2.07      Relations with the Bank Group.  The Bank Group has provided CEAO
with assistance to plan the establishment of FOSIDEC and to study
industrial sector policy issues. The proposed project would assist CEAO in
fostering regional cooperation in the training of high-level staff where
there are significant economies of scale. In the future, the Bank Group
expects to continue to provide CEAO with advice and assistance on project
design and implementation.
2.08      Prospects.  In the past CEAO has carried out its principal
functions reasonably well despite frequent political changes in some of
its member countries and despite conflicts between some members. This to a
large extent is due to the fact that the countries have worked out
acceptable arrangements for sharing benefits. While Ivory Coast and
Senegal are the largest contributors, providing the bulk of the funding for
CEAO's operating budget and for the FCD (para 2.04(b)), they are also by
far the largest beneficiaries of CEAO trade. There is clearly a mutual
interest among all CEAO members, and the Heads of State appear to remain
committed to preserving and strengthening this solidarity.
III.  MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
A. Background
3.01      There are about 14,000 private or public sector enterprises
employing 560,000 people in the six CEAO imember countries. These
enterprises provide 30% of CEAO's total employment.  However, the economic
performance of these entreprises has often been disappointing. la addition
to the unfavorable economic environment in which they function, they have
suffered from inefficient management attributable to the scarcity of
African managerial staff, centralized management systems, and inappropriate
management techniques.
3.02      Deficiencies in management affect both the private and public
sectors. The private sector has often suffered from low productivity and
poor returns on investments, thus reducing the sector's competitiveness.
Furthermore, muny African governments have taken over the responsibility
for key decisions on production and employment from the private sector by
creating monopolistic state enterprises to conduct major business
operations. These enterprises, frequently managed poorly and operating
under unfavorable economic conditions, have often suffered heavy losses and
therefore depended increasingly on the govern ent for protective
regulations and subsidies. In many cases, they have become a drain on
public resources. Similarly, the civil service is generally staffed by
personnel who either are untrained or graduates of traditional university
management prograns that concentrate on law and political scienze.
B. Training Needs
3.03      In 1979, of the more than 42,000 senior and middle level managers
employed in private and parapublic enterprises in CEAO countries, more than 30%
were expatriates. The shortage of African staff is particularly severe at
the senior level, where nearly 50% (1979) of the positions are filled by



- 6 -
non-Africans. lurthermore, a recent study estimates that less than half of
the African staff have completed more than two years of higher education,
and the rest have only secondary education or even less. In absolute
terms, dependence on expatriate managers is increasing; a total of 13,875
vere employed in 1980, compared with approxinately 12,000 in 1977.
3.04 Estimates of the average annual requirements of senior and
middle-level managers in CEAO countries during the 1980s, and the output of
existing training institutions are summarized below. Annex 3-1,
Demand/Supply of Af rican Managers in CEAO Member States: Senior Level, and
Annex 3-2, DemandlSupply of African Managers in CEA0 Member States:  Middle
Level, provide more detailed information.
Estimated Training/Upgrading Needs in CEAO Countries in the 1980s
and Available Capacity in 1979
New Training                 Upgrading
Estimated     Present      Estlmnted     Present
Needs      Capacity        Needs      Capacity
Senior-staff             900         200           1,300        500
Middle-level staff      2,600        900           4,900        800
Burkina, Mauritania and Niger have no ln-service training arrangements for
senior or middle-level managers.  While these figures may contain
significant margins of error, they indicate the magnitude of the shortfall
In the training capacity and underscore the pressing need to address the
management training issue.
C. Management Training Institutions in CEAO
3.05      With the exception of the National Schools of Administration
(Ecoles Nationales d'Administration - ENAs), which mainly serve the civil
service and offer a curriculum emphasizing law and public administration,
most management training in West Africa has been conducted in the economics
and political science departments of the universities. The programs are
generally theoretical and do not focus on developing skills in financial
analysis, planning, production management, organization, motivation and
leadership. The teaching materials are borrowed largely from French and
English texts and are not well adapted to the African environnent.
Dissatisfaction vith such university programs has, in a number of
countries, led to the creation of specialized training institutions.
3.06      Ivory Coast has four in-service centers for training middle-level
and support staff; the total average annual output i 760 trainees. The
Advanced School of Commerce (Ecole Supérieure de Commerce) has a four-year
program vith an output of 40. In Burkina, the Unlversity Institute of
Technology (Institut Universitaire de Technologie) has a two-year post-
secondary program to train middle-level staff and has an annal output of
45. However, an insignificant amount of class time is devoted to management
training. Mali has two institutions vith a limited contribution to



-7-
management training; the first is a two-year post-secondary institution for
clerical and secretarial training, and the other is the Institute of
Productivity and Management (Institut de Productivité et de Gestion
Provisionnelle - IPGP), which caters to the needs of senior and
middle-level managers in the civil service and the parapublic sector. The
IPGP is being supported by the Second Education Project (Credit 733-MLI,
1977) and the Economic Management and Training Project (Credit 1307-MLI,
1977).  Its main focus is on short-term upgrading courses.  In Niger, the
National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration - ENA)
recently started a new four-year program for business management training;
the 1983 output was 30 graduates, who will occupy senior positions in state
enterprises. With the assistance of the Third Education Project
(Credit 908-SE, 1979), Senegal started a graduate Business Management
School (Ecole Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprise - ESGE) in 1981 to provide
training for upper- and middle-level managers who have already had
experience in private and state enterprises (para 3.12). Senegal also has
a number of small in-service training centers that provide training for
bookkeepers and administrative support staff, vith an annual output of 30
to 40 graduates.
3.07      Two regional centers for in-service training have been created.
The first is the African and Mauritian Training Center (Centre Africain et
Mauricien de Perfectionnement des Cadres - CAMPC) located in Abidjan. This
center provides short-term programs primarily for middle-level managers in
private and state enterprises of the OCAM (Joint African and Mauritian
Organization) member countries, and has an annual output of 85 trainees.
The CAMPC also conducts research on managerial issues and prepares its own
training materials. The second is the West African Center for Banking
Education and Training (Centre Ouest Africain de Formation et d'Etudes
Bancaires - COFEB) located in Dakar and managed by the common Central Bank,
the BCEAO. The COFEB offers a one-year program for middle-level staff
leading to a certificate in banking studies, and organizes short-term
in-service training programs.  The annual output is about 70.
D. A Strategy for Management Training
3.08      Training and career development for African managers is crucial
in all CEAO countries. It is essential to an effective expatriate
replacement policy and the development of management techniques adapted to
the African environment. While there have been a number of successful
attempts to train middle-level, secretarial and administrative support
staff, training programs for high-level staff have been seriously
inadequate, both at the university level and for in-service training
(paras 3.06-3.07). In particular, staff specialized in financial
management, managerial economics, accounting, production management,
organization and behavioral sciences as well as other aspects of management
are lacking in all countries. Specialized traïning institutions for
high-level staff are an obvious need, but the number of high-level managers
does not justify the creation of such institutes in each country; a
critical mass of students and staff is required and economies of scale can
only be realized by a regional institution. Existing national institutions
have often found it difficult and costly to recruit the top-quality
specialists fron abroad who are needed to maintain the quality of the
training programs for the most advanced students. Furthermore, a regional



- 8 -
institution would bring together high-level managers from different
countries, thus providing opportunities for an understanding of the diverse
business and economic conditions among members.
3.09      CEAO has recognized the need for regional cooperation of
management training by advocating a regional management training
institution. The Heads of State of CEAO countries had by 1976 already
expressed their interest in creating an African institution to train
high-level managers, and they commissioned the Secretary General of CEAO to
undertake the necessary studies. At their conference in 1978, the Heads of
State agreed that this school would be established in Dakar and the
Senegalese Government, therefore, provided assurances under Credit 908-SE
that ESGE would form the nucleus for the eventual development of a regional
management school. Feasibility studies confirmed the benefits of regional
cooperation, and emphasized the need for practical regional management
training developed in close collaboration with the business community.
E.   The Bank Group's Experience with Past Lending in CEAO Meinber Countries
3.10      On several occasions, the Bank Group has responded to the request
of governments for assistance in the field of managerial development and
has provided assistance by supporting management training institutions
through education projects and training components in non-education
projects. As far as CEAO countries are concerned, the Bank's efforts have
focused mainly on Mali and Senegal.
3.11      In Mali, the Bank Group intended to provide assistance under the
Second Education Project (Credit 733-MLI, 1977) for curriculum development
staff training and provision of equipment and facilities for the Institute
of Productivity and Management (IPGP, para 3.06).  However, construction of
educational facilities for the IPGP had to be deleted from the project
following implementation delays and cost overruns. Funding is now being
provided under the Economic Management and Training Project
(Credit 1307-MLI, 1977). The IPGP has had difficulty recruiting the
specialized staff it needs and is emphasizing new middle-level training
because of the small number of students who would qualify for admission to
high-level training programs.
3.12      ls Senegal, the Bank Group is providing US$3.9 million under the
Third Education Project (Credit 908-SE) to construct, equip and develop the
programs of the Business Management School (ESGE, para 3.06).
Implementation has progressed successfully. The school has developed a
successful program to provide training in modern management techniques to
high- and middle-level Senegalese managers in private and public
enterprises. An intensive admission, screening and interviewing process
has been established, and priority is given to practicing managers.
Classes are scheduled to fit the participants' schedules and to allow them
to return to their enterprises for practical application after the first
two semesters. Upon return to their enterprises, the managers--still
"students"-are assisted and evaluated by their instructors and their
immediate supervisors. The practical orientation of the program is
strengthened through the use of about 40 practicing managers as part-time
instructors. Special attention has been given to attracting the teaching
staff necessary for offering a high quality program.  Since the first



- 9 -
intake lu 1981, over 60 students have graduated from the school and hold
managerial level positions in Senegal. ESGE in-service training program is
expanding rapidly and is gaining the confidence of Senegalese enterprises;
155 executives from 38 enterprises participated in 12 programs offered
during the first year of the school's operation. In the second year, 575
participants eirolled in 46 seminars.  ESGE has made a considerable effort
to develop a qualified national teaching staff, and the scholarship program
to train both permanent and part-time teaching staff is being implemented
successfully. The training of African managers aud the promotion of
regional cooperation in West Africa are long standing priorities for Bank
Croup lending in West Africa. These priorities would be supported by the
proposed project by building on the considerable achievements of ESGE.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist CEAD in establishing a regional
institution for training and upgrading high- and middle-level managerial
staff in private and parapublic sector enterprises. This regional
institution, the Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion (CESAG),
vould be located in Dakar (para 3.09) and would absorb the programs now
being conducted at ESGE, the Senegalese Business Management School
(para 3.12), whose facilities would be transferred to CESAG and expanded.
Project lmplementation would begin in 1986 and end in 1989.
4.02      CESAG would serve the needs of CEA0 member countries and other
countries in the West African region that may wish to join CESAG as
associate members. The principal functions of CESAG would be to:
(d) establish broadly based graduate-level programs to train senior
managers in private and parapublic enterprises;
(e) organize short upgrading programs in specific subjecta for senior
managers;
(f) serve as a resource center for other institutions in the
Community that offer management training programs by establishing
training prograæs for teaching staff and providing assistance in
developing training materials;
(g)  serve as a center for research on the development of management
systems adapted to the African environuent; and
(h) provide consulting services on reorganization of systeus and
implementation of appropriate and efficient management
techniques.
B. Project Description
4.03      The graduate-level training program for managers vould have an
iutake of about 60 students pet year, thus doubling ESGE's capacity.



- 10 -
Students would be expected to have work experience in the private or
parapublic sectors. In most cases, they would be recommended for training
by their employers, who would normally continue to pay their salaries
during training. The planned training program is intended to become a major
tool for the implementation of career development programs for junior
African managers in the Community, thus paving the way for successful
Africanization of senior managerial positions.
4.04      The courses would be built on the experience gained by ESGE. They
would, however, be designed with a regional perspective and provide an
intensive study of the economics of the region, its trade and commercial
characteristics, and the managerial and behavioral skills necessary for
senior managers. All programs would have a practical orientation, and
would make extensive use of case studies of managerial issues applied to
the African context. Courses would include a general introduction to the
principles of management, training in the use of quantitative and
analytical techniques, production management, marketing, financial
management and personnel administration. The general courses would be
followed by specialized in-depth training which vould result in papers
written by the participants on practical applications of some of the
techniques taught during the courses. The graduate-level program would be
offered at two separate levels but with similar instructional objectives.
One would aim primarily at practicing managers with considerable
experience, and offer a 14-month continuous program. The other would aim
at junior executives who need additional practical experience. These
junior executives would be offered the opportunity to acquire additional
experience during supervised internships which would be part of the
program. This course vould last 22 months.
4.05      Several in-service training programs have been prepared by ESGE
staff (para 3.12). The progrAms cover a wide range of subjects, including
the use of computers for business applications, marketing, and production
management. CESAG would continue to offer these seminars and develop new
ones. Uhile the in-service programs would mainly serve the needs of
Senegal, program content would be adapted teo deal with regional issues, and
to cater to the needs of countries like Burkina, Mauritania, and Niger,
which have not yet established national programs. ESGE would develop about
5-10 seminars annually, with about 25-30 participants each, for a regional
clientele.
4.06      The program for the training of management trainers would enroll
about 10 students per year. An important part of the program would be
tailored to the education and previcus experience of the candidates. The
program would last two to three years, depending on the individual
candidate. Students would participate in parts of the graduate program and
in the consulting work done by CESAG in addition to receiving specialized
pedagogical training.
4.07      Most research would be undertaken by the senior permanent staff.
It would focus specifically on the development of management models and
techniques that are of particular relevance to the African environment.
The research would also contribute to the development of a bantk of case
studies to be used in the teaching programs.



- il -
4.08      ESGE has already taken on a variety of consulting assignments
related to its expertise. It has advised several Senegalese enterprises on
issues related to management, staff training, and labor relations. It has
worked on a contract financed by the Permanent Interstate Committee for
Drought Control in the Sahel to advise on the management and training of
staff of 32 research institutions in the Sahel, and has recently signed a
contract with a Guinean mining company. CESAG would continue with and
reinforce these activities, and aim at a further geographical broadening of
activities to include all CEAO countries. CESAG would also include
assistance and advice to other management training schools in its
consulting work.
C. Project Inputs
4.09      Specifically, the proposed project would assist in the creation
of CESAG and would include:
(a) expansion of ESGE's facilities and making them suitable to
accoimnodate the proposed regional management school by
constructing, furnishing, and equipping pedagogical and boarding
facilities;
(b) assistance with the development of higb-quality management
training programs by providing about 15 manyears of specialist
services;
(c)  implementation of a regional staff development program for
teaching, consultancy, and research, by providing 18 manyears of
overseas fellowships; and
(d)  recurrent finance for operation of CESAG during project
-mplementation (1985-89).
4.10      Expansion of facilities.  The pedagogical facilities of ESGE vere
completed in December 1982. The proposed project vould include financing
for the construction of a multipurpose lecture hall for about 120 persons,
and the adaptation of some classrooms to accommodate the school's computer
training programs. Since ESGE does not have boarding facilities,
accommodations for 60 students from CEAO countries vould be provided under
the project. The project would also provide financing for supervision of
the civil works, and includes about US$140,000 to finance teaching
equipment to complement that provided for ESGE under the Third Education
Project (Credit 908-SE, 1979).
4.11      Program development.  The outlines of the teaching programe have
been reviewed and found acceptable. CESAG would maintain close contact
with the business community. Training materials vould be prepared for the
various programs on the basis of regional and specific enterprise
experience. During negotiations, CESAG agreed that the detailed teaching
progras would be prepared and reviewed with IDA prior to June 30, 1987,
and that a review of the experience gained would be prepared annually and
submitted to IDA.
4.12      To ensure the quality of the progrmnis offered by CESAS, the
project would finance 175 months of specialist services to provide CESAG



- 12 -
vith the opportunity to recruit high-level apecialists from the
international market. These specialists would assist with program
development and the teaching of specialized courses as detailed in
Annex 4-1, Suuuary of Specialist Services. The inputs of the short-term
consultants would be scheduled to coincide vith the courses in the regular
education program and with the in-service training activities in the
consultants' respective fields. Terms of reference for all specialists
have been agreed and are available in the project file. Several donor
agencies, the UNDP, FAC and USAID, for example, are interested in
participating in the project by providing financing for complementary
technical assistance. CEAO is exploring different possibilities for
coordinating and acquiring available technical assistance inputs.  During
negotiations, CESAG agreed that it vill consult with IDA prior to making
arrangements for the execution and coordination of any external assistance
programs.
4.13      The staff development program, to be supported by the project, is
intended to prepare qualified staff selected from CEAO couatries for
teaching at the level required for graduate degree (MBA) candidates, and
for staffing the in-service training and research prograus. To this end,
the project vould finance two fellovships for Ph.D. studies in management,
and six fellowships for Master's degrees in accounting and auditing,
marketing, international business, personnel management, organizationai
behavior, and managerial economics (Anne% 4-2, Sumiary of Fellowships).
The criteria for selecting the fellowship candidates vould be developed by
CESAG Management Committee and approved by CESAG's Executive Board and by
IDA (para 6.06). Additional fellovships would be made available through
expected assistance from the UNDP and FAC.
4.14      There would be approximately 12 permanent teaching staff members,
of whom about half, initially, would be expatriate specialists. To
reinforce its links vith the business community, CESAG vould make extensive
use of part-time teachers and visiting lecturers, most of whom vould be
experienced businessmen. Many of the part-time lecturers vould receive
special training in communications and teaching techniques.
4.15      Operation. The project includes a provision of about US$1.02
million for the part of the recurrent costs of CESAG during its
first four years of operation which would be financed by a subsidy from
CEAO. This subsidy would help finance the salaries of permanent teaching
and support staff, the cost of conscmable materials and building
maintenance, and the cost of operating the administrative and boarding
facilities. CEAO has agreed that it vill provide the necessary recurrent
financing for operation of CESAG. A condition of credit effectivenesas vill
be the payment by CEAO of the first year's operating expenses of CESAG
(CFAF 95 million-US$193,877 equivalent).
D. Organization and Management of CESAG
4.16      CESAG vould share its principal decision-making bodies vith CEAD.
The highest authority of CESAC would be the Conference of the Heada of
State, the saue as for CEAO. The conference vould adopt CESAG budget and
determine the amount of contributions by the member countries. The Council
of Ministers, the same as CEAD's Council of Ministers, vould define CESAG's



- 13 -
general policies, make decisions regarding special appropriations, and have
the authority to appoint and dismiss the Director. The Executive Board
vould be composed of 12 members, two from each CESAG member country. At
least one of the two members from each country vould represent the officiai
employers' organization. CESAG Board vould implement the policies adopted
by the Council of Ministers and monitor prograus and activities.  The
Education Council, composed of six members who are also members of the
Executive Board, would be primarily responsible for the control and
continuous evaluation of education and training, and would also direct
research activities. The Education Council would establish examination
rules and standards, appoint the Examination Jury, and approve the results
of exans. The Organizational Chart in Annex 4-3 shows CESAG's structure in
detail.
4.17      The Director, appointed by the Council of Ministers, is CESAG's
chief executive officer. The Director's qualifications vill be crucial to
an efficient start-up. A Director acceptable to IDA has been appointed.
CESAG has agreed that, should a new Director have to be appointed during
project implementation, it vill consult with IDA on the qualifications of
the candidates to help ensure that only qualified candidates vill be
proposed to the Council of Ministers. The Director vill be assisted by the
Dean of the Faculty and the Director of Finance and Administration. The
Dean of the Faculty vill be responsible for prograiming all CESAG's
activities and serve as a liaison officer with enterprises and employers in
the region. He vill be elected by the Faculty and vork closely vith the
Director of Prograus to assure the timely staffing of the education and
training programs. The Director of Finance and Administration vill
supervise the accounting, administrative and support staff, manage the
student dormitory, and maintain the buildings and grounds. CESAG vill have
separate departments responsible for graduate training, in-service
training, teacher training, and consulting.
4.18      Fees would be charged as follows:
Short-term courses                  CFAF  50,000 (about US$100)
Graduate courses and training       CFAF 400,000 (about US$815)
of trainers                        per year
These fees are comparable to the actual current fees charged at ESGE, but
boarding students would have to pay additional charges. Many students
would receive support from their employers for fees and living expenses.
In addition, CESAG vould charge for its consulting vork. Since CESAG would
have considerable legal and financial autonomy, it vould be able to manage
its resources with flexibility.
E. Legal Framework
4.19      CEAO's and CŒSAG's obligations in respect of the proposed project
are provided for in a Project Agreement with IDA. The Heads of State of
CEAO member states signed an agreement creating CESAG as an autonomous
legal entity that can continue to exist independently even in the event of



- 14 -
dissolution of CEAO. provided meimber countries continue to finance CESAG's
recurrent budget. Arrangements for the dissolution of CESAG are governed
by CEA0 treaty. In such a case, Senegal vould, according to CEkO treaty,
have the right of first refusal of the facilities it has made available to
CESAG. This issue vas reviewed during negotiations, and Senegal has agreed
that in case this situation occurs, it vould take all necessary measures to
regain possession of CESAG facilities and use them to train high- and
middle-level managers. Furthermore, Senegal and CEAO have agreed that
CESAG facilities vould revert to Senegal in case CEA0 or CESAG does not
meet its agreed financial obligations.
4.20      Senegal vill borrov from IDA for the proposed project. It vill
onlend the borroved funds on the same terms to OESAG, and transfer to CESAG
the ownership of ESGE facilities and programa developed by Senegal vith the
help of US$3.9 million borrowed from IDA under Credit 908-SE for ESGE (para
3.12). During negotiations, Senegal agreed to the afore-mentioned
conditions. CESAG vill honor contractual obligations to suppliers of goods
and services in respect of ESGE project. CESAG vill, vith CE&0 support:
(a) make payments to Senegal to cover Senegal's debt-service obligations
for the funds borrowed from IDA under Credit 908-SE to construct, equip,
and furnish ESŒE, and to cover repayments on the proposed credit; (b)
reimburse Senegal for its expenditures on the local contribution to ESGE's
civil vorks; (c) cover the part of the project cost that is to be financed
f rom local resources, including possible cost overruns; and (d) provide
financing for all operating costs of CESAG. During negotiations, CEAO
agreed that it vill provide CESAG vith funds for the above purposes, as
needed.
4.21      These arrangements vill be formalized lu a subsidiary loan
agreement between Senegal, CESAG and CEAO, vith details of the onlending
and other financial arrangements to be governed by a separate
implementation agreement between the same parties. CEA0': loan guarantee
fund, Fonds de Solidarité et d'Intervention pour le Développement de la
Communauté (FOSIDEC), vould guarantee to Senegal the payment of debt
service obligations incurred by CESAG. Drafts of the agreements reached
between Senegal, CESAG and CEAO have been revieved and found acceptable.
The signing and effectiveness of the onlending and implementation
agreements between CESAG, CEAO and Senegal vill be a condition of credit
effectiveness.



- 15 -
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAI
A. Cost of the Project
5.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estiuated at US$6.52
million, vith a foreign exchange component of US$4.88 million. The
breakdown of the cost is summarized as folloes.  Details are shown lu
Annex 5-1, Cost Summary Table.
Project Cost Summary
Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreig    Total   as Z of
Category         -- CFAE million -           -        US$ 000 - -   Uase Cost
Civil Works      288.1    390.1    678.1    587.9    796.1  1,384.0        26
Furniture         22.6      42.4     65.0     46.2      86.6    132.7       3
Equipment           ...     85.8     85.8       ...    175.0    175.0       3
Professional
Fees             12.0      22.5     34.5     24.5      45.9     70.4        1
Specialist
Services          ...  1,116.4  1,116.4       ...  2,278.3  2,278.3       43
Fellowships        ...    202.9    202.9        ...    414.0    414.0       8
Incremental
Recurrent
Cost            312.8      97.8    410.6    638.4    199.5    838.0       16
Base Cost        635.5  1,957.7  2,593.3  1,297.0  3,995.4  5.292.3        100
Physical
Contingencies    32.3      54.1     86.3     65.9    110.4    176.2        3
Price
Escalation      134.4    380.7    515.1    274.3    776.9  1,051.3        20
Total
Contingencies   166.7    434.8    601.4    340.2    887.3  1,227.5        23
Total Project
Cost            802.2  2.392.5   .1947  1,637 2  4882 7  6  19.8         123
5.02      The cost estimates for civil vorks are for May 1985 and are based
on final designs reviewed folloving the appraisal mission and construction
contracts awarded in Senegal during 1980-83. The estimated average cost of
construction is CFAF 120,000 (US$245) per square meter, which is comparable
to the cost in neighboring countries. The average coet for expatriate
specialists io based on recent recruitment experience of the Senegalese
Governuent and international organizations.
5.03      The project costs lnclude physical contingencies of 10Z of the
base cost for civil works, furniture and equipment. The overall allovance
for price escalation is about 19% of base co0t plus physical contingencles.



- 16 -
This is calculated on the bauis of the folloving expected annual price
increases over the impl emntation period for both local and foreign coste,
for ail catgorien: 7.52 lu 1986, and 8.0X in 1987 through 1989.
5.04      The estimated foreign exchange componont of US$4.88 million
represonts about 75Z of the total project cost of US$6.52 million. TIhe
foreign exchange component as a percentage of base conts ln ach coat
category lu au follows: civil vorks, 58Z; furniture, 65X; equipment, 1002;
professional fees, 65Z; spociallut services, 10OZ; fellowvhips, 10OZ; and
operating costu, 24Z. Senegal has confirmed that it intendu to grant
exemption from customs duties and taxes for goods and services for the
project.
B. Flnancing Plan
5.05      The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of SDR
5.50 million (US$5.50 million equivalent) and a contribution of US$1.02
million by CEAO. The IDA credit would finance 100Z of the cost of civil
vorks, furniture and equipment, professional fees, specialist services,
and fellowships. CEA0 would finance 100Z of all recurrent coste. The IDA
credit would finance 95Z of the total foreign exchange cost and 52Z of the
local cost, representing 84Z of the total project cost.
C.   Project Recurrent Costs
5.06      The treaty establishing CESAG foresees the following three
principal sources of funding for recurrent costu: (i) tuition charges and
consulting fees; (il) direct contributions from CEAO member countries or
f rom CEAO (FCD funds); and (iii) grants and subsidies by foundations and
national or international organizations; and credits or loans. The
projected recurrent conts for CESAG are expected to be covered by tuition
charges, consulting fees and other sources of revenue vhich together would
provide nbout 632 to 67% of itS annual recurrent cost8 during the project
implementation period. The balance of tbe recurrent cost financing vould
be borne by CEA0 (the proposed IDA financing of technical assistance is not
included as a recurrent cost). This balance would range from CFAF 110.0
million (about US$ 225,000 equivalent) in the firet full school year,
1986-87, to CFAF 140.0 million <about US$ 285,000 equivalent) in 1989-90.
The recurrent coste resulting from the project upon its completion are
estimated at CFAF 100 million (about US$ 204,000 equivalent). They would
represent not more than 2Z of CEAO's actual average annual expenditures
during 1980-82, and about 122 of the actual annual expenditures for
Community projects during that period or less than 2% of the projected
average annual expenditures for the 1983-84 period. CEAO has agreed to
provide the necessary recurrent financing for operation of CESAG. A
condition of credit effectiveness vill be the payment by CEAO of the first
year's recurrent costs (para 4.15).



- 17 -
VI. PROJECT IMPlLEMENTATI0N
A. Project Preparation
6.01      CEAO proposed the project in 1979.  The Center for International
Trade (UNCTAD) and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) carried out
a survey of training needs and r feasibility study for the regional
Qanagement school in 1981. At the same time, CEAO, IDA and Senegal
reviewed the legal framework that vould be »ost suitable for IDA assistance
to a regional project.  After a preappraisal mission in September 1981
revieved the educational specifications and the proposed schedule of
accommodations, design began. The appraisal mission that visited Senegal
in April 1982 reviewed the preliminary desigus as vell as draft equipment
lists, outlines of the teaching programs and the draft legal agreement.
The design work vas completed by the middle of 1983. Tenders vere invited
at the end of 1984 and the construction of buildings and the iz tallation
of equipment and furniture are expected to be completed by July 1987. The
provision of specialiat services and fellowships and the funding of
recurrent costs w--ld continue until December 31, 1989, when the entire
project is expected to be completed. The Closing Date of the IDA credit
vould be June 30, 1990.
B.  Transition
6.02      The integration of ESGE and CESAG programs would be gradual. A
firat step tovards integration is being taken by broadening the recruitment
base of ESGE students and staff to inclaude the other CEAO member countries.
During the 1986-87 academic year, the phasing out of ESGE courses vould
begin and OESAG courses would be started. A detailed plan for the
transition has been prepared by representatives of ESGE, CESAGICEAO, and
Senegal. This plan vas revieved during negotiations with all the parties
concerned.
C. Project Management
6.03      The Director of OESAG vould have overall responsibility for
project implementation. Yor the technical aspects of procurement and
contract administration for goods and services financed under the project,
technical support vould be provided by the Education Project Unit
established by the Senegalese Gover ent in the Ministry of Equipment to
implement the three education projects financed by IDA. Technical support
for other elements of project implementation, such as selecting and
supervising technical assistance personnel, selecting and supervising
fellowship programs aud candidates, elaborating building and equipment
specifications, and maintaining project accounts and preparing vithdrawal
applications, would be provided by the staff of CESAG vith assistance, as
appropriate, from local or foreign technical specialists. During
negotiations, Senegal agreed that it will make available to CESAG, as and
when required, the services of the Project Unit. CEAO Secretariat has made
arrangements to assist in establishing vork procedures vith ESGE end the
Education Project Unit, and to start project implemeutation to assure an
orderly transition.



- 18 -
D.   Sites
6.04      The Government of Senegal has acquired legal title to the land
required for the construction envisaged for the project, and vill transfer
the title to this land to CESAG together with the land and facilities of
ESGE, upon effectiveness of the onlending and implementation agreements
between Senegal, CE&O and CESAG (para 4.21).
E. Procurement
6.05      Procurement arrangements are sumnarized in the table below.
Procurement Arrangements a
(US$ million)
Project Element                  ICB      LCB       Other     N.A.      Total
Civil Works                     1.80      ...         ...-               1.80
Furniture                       0.09      ...        0.10       -        0.19
Equipment                       0.19      ...        0.05       -       0.24
Professional Fees                 --      ...        0.09       -        0.09
Specialist Services                       ...        2.70       -       2.70
Fellowships                               ...        0.48       -       0.48
Incremental Recurrent Cost                ...         ...     1.02       1.02
TOTAL                           2.08                 3.42     1.02       6.52
a/   All items would be financed by the IDA credit for 100%, with the
exception of the recurrent costs, which would be finxanced by CEAO for
100%.
Architectural and engineering services were obtained by selecting from
local specialized firms approved by IDA. Civil works valued at US$1.80
million, and furniture and equipment valued at US$0.43 million, would be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA's guidelines. The bidding for the major civil vorks contract has
been completed and a provisional avard has been approved by IDA.
Manufacturers of furniture and equipment in CEAO member countries would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports or the total applicable custom duties and import taxes, whichever
is the lover.  Items of furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into
packages of at least US$50,000, and for which potential suppliers are
limited, would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
in CEAO member countries in accordance with procurement procedures
acceptable to IDA. Items of furniture and equipment which cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$15,000 equivalent, may be procured by
inviting quotations from at least three reliable suppliers whenever
possible; the total value of items procured by these methods would not
exceed US$150,000. IDA would review the bidding documents, before
contracts are avarded, for the four to six contracts estimated to cost the



- 19 -
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, totalling about 90% of the value of all
civil works, furniture and equipment contracts.
F.   Specialist Services and Fellovships
6.06      The project would finance about 15 manyears of specialist
services and a total of 18 manyears of fellowships outside the Community.
During negotiations, CESAG agreed that: (a) only specialists whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to IDA
vill be appointed to positions financed under the project, and they will be
recruited in accordance with IDA's guidelines; and (b) the fellowships vill
be awarded for prograns and to suitably qualified candidates, selected on
the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA (para 4.13), who vill serve at
least five years in the positions for which they vere trained.
G.  Special Account
6.07      A Special Account of US$50,000 would be established in a bank in
Dakar to help CESAG prefinance small expenditures reimbursable under the
credit while vithdraval applications are consolidated. This account vould
be operated under terms and conditions agreed during negotiations and
specified in the Credit Agreement.  Should any payments be made from the
Special Account that are not acceptable to IDA, CESAG vould be responsible
for replenishing the fund in the corresponding amount.
B.   Disbursements
6.08      The table below sets out the disbursement percentages of the
varlous project elements.
Disbursement Categories of the IDA Credit
Disbursement
Amount             as Z of
Items                           (US$ 000's)        Expenditure
Civil Works                      US$1,380              100%
Furniture and Equipment               310              100%
Specialist Services                 2,280              100%
Professional Fees                      70              100%
Fellowships                           410              100%
Initial deposit into
Special Account                      50
Unallocated                         1,000
TOTAL                               L 500
6.09      Disbursements have been estiimated on the basis of the schedule of
implementation summarized in Annex 6-1, Lmplementation Schedule, taking
into account the time likely to be required to prepare and process .he
vithdraval applications. The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 6-2, Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule. The disbursement



- 20 -
profile takes account of Region-vide experience with education projects in
West Africa, but has been shortened to reflect the relatively advanced
state of project preparation and the fact that this project has only one
component and would be implemented vith the assistance of an experienced
implementing agency. All disbursements from the IDA credit vould be fully
documented.
6.10      The Project Unit vould establish accounts for the project in
accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. The IDA
credit includes financing for an annual audit of the project accounts by
independent auditors. During negotiations, CESAG agreed that: (a) it vill
submit to IDA, each fiscal year, certified reports on its income and
expenditures and other financial statements for review; (b) its financial
statements, including separately identified project accounts, vill be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audits vill be
conducted annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied; (c) the audit reports will be of such detail as IDA
may reasonably request; and (d) the accounts and audit report vill be
submitted to IDA for reviev vithin six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
I. Evaluation
6.11      CESAG Director would submit biannual progress reports on project
lmplementation to IDA and to CEAO. CESAG would maintain records on its
graduates' employment histories to serve as a basis for further tracer
studies.  During negotiations CESAG agreed that it vill subuit a project
completion report to IDA vithin six months of the Closing Date of the IDA
credit.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      The project vould increase the supply of senior managerial staff
for private and parapublic sector enterprises in the West African Economic
Community and other neighboring West African countries. Specifically,
CESAG vould play a crucial role in: (a) preparing junïor African
professional staff for senior managerial positions; and (b) training
teaching staff for national management training institutions.  In the
longer term, the project vould contribute to the replacement of expatriate
managerial staff by Africans and the introduction of appropriate business
organization and management models, thereby reducing costs, increasing
productivity, and enhancing the competitiveness of African enterprises.
7.02      While regional cooperation is essential to take advantage of
economies of scale involved in the establishment of top-quality training
prograus, the anticipated additional benefits of a regional institution are
the focus on intra-Community trade and improved communication that vould be
established among the alummni who would become senior managers of
enterprises in the member countries of the Community.



- 21 -
B.   Risks
7.03      The project faces two major risks.  The first relates to the
ability of CEAO to function as a financially sound entity and the
implications that negative events might have on the effective continuation
of CESAG as a CEAO entity. While the record of regional cooperation in
West Africa is generally positive (para 2.01), the financial soundness of
CEAO depends, to a large extent on the willingness of Senegal and
especially Ivory Coast, to continue meeting the major share of the FCD and
on prudent financial management and cautious design of Community projects.
In the event CEA0 is dissolved, according to the CEAO treaty, Senegal has
the right of first refusal on the facilities it has made available to CESAG
at no cost. Senegal has agreed vith IDA that it vould use its best efforts
in exercising this right (para 4.19). In the event the CEAO would not be
in a position to continue to support CESAG, management of the school would
be returned to Senegal and the school would continue to function as a
Senegalese entity.
7.04      The second risk is that CESAG teaching programs, as often happens
in management and administration schools, may become too theoretical and
divorced from the reality vith which African managers must deal.  This
risk is mitigated by the technical assistance for development and
implementation of the teaching program built in the project, as vell as
close supervision by IDA (para 4.11). In addition, the representation of
employers on CESAG's Executive Board (para 4.16), the development and
implementation of teaching programs in close collaboration with employers,
and the extensive use of practicing managers as part-time teachers
(para 4.14) vill help to keep the training relevant to West African
realities.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACBED AND RECO_NDATIOMS
8.01      During negotiations, Senegal agreed that:
(a)  it vill transfer to CESAG the ownership of ESGE facilities, and
will onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit to CESAG
(para 4.20);
(b)  in case of dissolution of CESAG, it would take all necessary
measures to regain possession of CESAG facilities and use them to
train high- and middle-level managers (paras 4.19 and 7.03); and
(c)  it vill make available to CESAG the services of the Education
Project Unit, as and when required (para 6.03).
8.02      During negotiations, CESAG agreed that:
(a)  detailed teaching programs for CESAG vill be prepared and
reviewed with IDA prior to June 30, 1987, and a review and
evaluation of the programs on the basis of the experience gained
will be prepared annually and submitted to IDA (para 4.11);
(b)  it vill consult vith IDA prior to making arrangements for the
execution and coordination of any external assistance progrus
(para 4.12);



- 22 -
(c)  should a new Director be appointed during project implementation,
CESAG vill consult vith IDA on the qualifications and experience
of the candidates to help ensure that only qualified candidates
vill be proposed to the Council of Ministers (para 4.17);
(d)  ouly specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference are acceptable to IDA will be appointed to positions
and they vill be recruited in accordance vith IDA guidelines
(para 6.06);
(e)  the fellowships vill be avarded for prograns acceptable to IDA
and to suitably qualified candidates, selected on the basis of
criteria acceptable to IDA, who vill serve at least five years in
the positions for vhich they vere trained (para 6.06);
(f)  CESAG vill maintain records and accounts of its operations,
resources and expenditures, and vill furnish IDA vith certified
copies of its financial statements each fiscal year (para 5.06).
The project accounts vill be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and the audits vill be conducted annually in
accordance vith appropriate principles consistently applied; the
audit reports vill be of such detail as IDA may reasonably
request; and the accounts and audit report vill be submitted to
IDA for reviev vithin six muonths of the close of each fiscal year
<para 6.10); and
(g)  a project completion report on the execution of the project, its
cost8 and benefits and the performance by CESAG and the
Association of their respective obligations vill be sublitted to
IDA vithin six months of the Closing Date of the IDA credit
(para 6.11).
8.03      During negotiations, CEAO agreed that:
(a)  it vill provide the necessary recurrent finaucing for operation
of CESAG (para 4.15);
(b)  CESAG facilities would revert to Senegal in case CEAO or CESAG
does not meet its agreed financial obligations (para 4.19); and
(c)  it vill provide CESAG vith funds, as needed, for the purposes set
out in para 4.20.
8.04      Conditions of credit effectivenesa vill be (a) payment by CEAO of
the first year's operating expenses of CESAG (CFAF 95.0 million) (para
4.15); and (b) the signing and effectiveness of the onlending and
implementation agreements between CESAG, CEAO and Senegal (para 4.21).
8.05      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of Special Draving
Rights 5.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent) to the Republic of Senegal.
WPED
October 1985



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
DISTRIBUTION OF GDP (Z) IN THE CEAO MEMBER SATES/
DISTRIBUTION DU PIB (%) DANS LES ETATS MEMBRES DE LA CEAO (1983)
GDP - Percentage Distribution/
PIB - Répartition en pourcentage
GDP/PIB
Millions of dollars/   Agriculture/    Industry/         (Manufacturing/        Servlces/
Country/Pays     Millions de dollars    Agriculture       Industrie       Fabrication)           Services
Burkina                    906                41              19                  12                40
Ivory Coast/                                                                                                          N
Côte d'Ivoire             7090                27              24                  13                50
Mall                       980                46              il                   5b/              43
Mauritania/                                                                          b/
Mauritanie                 700                34              21                   8 -              45
Niger                     1340                33              31                   8 -37
Senegal                   2570                21              26                  17                54
a/   Mauiufacturing is part of the lndustrial sector, but itt  share of GDP is shown separately because
typically, it is the most dynamic part of the industrial sector/La fabrication fait partie du secteur
industriel, mais sa proportion du PIB est indiquge sépar5ment, car habituellement c'est la partie
la plus dynamique du secteur industriel
b|   Latest data available for 1982/Dernières données accessibles pour 1982
Source: World Development Report, 1984 and 1985.



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
POPULATION (1983) AND STRUCTURE OF THE LABOR FORCE (1981)/
POPULATION <(1983) ET STRUCTURE DE LA MAIN-D'OEUVRE (1981)
Percentage of Labor Force in/
x of Working            Pourcentage de la main-d'oeuvre en
Population/      Age Population/                        (1981)
Population       X Population
(1983)           Active                Agriculture/    Industry/        Service/
Country/Pays      (Millions)       (1983)                 Agriculture      Industrie      Services
Burkina              6.0                  52                   82              13              5
Ivory Coast/
Côte d'Ivoire        9.0                  53                   79               4             17                      >
Mali                 7.0                  50                   73              12             15
Mauritania/
Mauritanie           2.0                  53                   69               8             23
Niger                6.0                  51                   91               3              6
Senegal              6.0                  53                   77              10             13
Source: World Development Report, 1985.
WAPED
October 1985
IL



- 25 -
ANNEX 2-1
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
DISTRIBUTION AMONO XEMBER STATES OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO FCD
AND COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS/
DISTRIBUTION PARMI LES ETATS-MEMBRES DES CONTRIBUTIONS AU FCD
ET PAIEMENTS COMPENSATOIRES
Contributions to FCD/       Compensatory payments/
Contributions au FCD        Paiements compensatoires
1982                         1976-1983
CFAF                        CFAF
Million/                     Million/
million                      million
?CFA             Z           FCFA              Z
Burkina              162           2.3          4,233           27.4
Ivory Coast/
Cote d'Ivoire      4,748          68.6          2,025           13.1
Mali                 198           2.9          4,141           26.8
Kauritania/
Mauritanie             3           ...          1,840           11.9
Niger                  9           ...          1,507            9.7
Senegal            1,806          26.1          1,724           11.1
Total              6,926         100.0         15,470          100.0
_ _          .,_              t_           ,,__
Source: CEAO - Compte de gestion; 1980, 1981 et 1982.
WAPED
October 1985



- 26 -
SU88AL                               AIWE 2-2
CIICOEM AIID  IIDITUME CU0 AJID FJOSfM /
<tn CtAJanF/ CIA)
Di!f aras ne-
19S03             19e4            Variation
I  AIUl!TSJACSTTV
a) Currect AamtaelAttifs eourmt
Pinancial AccoUnt/Cemteu financiers
Dland depodui/DIp8t à ve                     866.767.101        188.269.038      (678.498.063)
Tarn dep.uitaflplt à temua                 3.723.313.228     4.877.217.876       I.153.904.648
Accountn lacaitvblaa/Cotpte- de
tiare intarvantteLna
FreluCoiaeioa à recevoir                      71.925.219        125.581.365         53.656.146
Internat (Subeidy)/DîbitSurn par
bonification                                56.213.865         68.129.554         11.915.689
Studiea/DUbitmrs d'ftudne                    Z76.769.516        352.748.961         75.979.445
Callactible guranteeaDhbiteura par
avala exigibles                            106.946.197       3N3.305.927         256.359.730
ltacetvablee/Dotatianà A receotr
Varioa     bere CEAOlDbitbrure diver. CIA    158.905.008        163.719.337        (4.814.329)
Otheralst^r«e débiteurs                          618.t54         17.650.360         17.031.506
Emploeyt /Peresiuel                              20R.345            611.657           4A '3.312
Ocher Curxent Aaeeta/lcoapre de rlmularitataon
Isteret dueluttir te à recevoir              92.640.113        166.771.803         76.131.690
Prepeid I!wneee/Charae  pey-e d'asee             49A.01I          2.697.281          7.199.263
epaouite/DpSte et cautioanements                 150.000            150.000
b) Vtxd Aaaet/sla_bilieations corporelles
Trasoportation/Metirel de trasport             1.764.613            76U.559        C1.104.OSZ
tqupment end turniture/HecErial et mobilier  16.242.523          13.556.827        <2.6J5.696)
Finatr/Apnemeln  aagement tallatifn   3.265.239                   6.1531.202         2.85 .963
h'alante a? ithe  aeur/Veultte             6.100.141.732                 -    (6.090.946.114?
Totale Al      /Toteux aetif              14.654.184.019      9.541.636.197
Il. t1IBILIfIU/PASXIF
Current Lebulittee/Ceptaà. de
rlmular±eatlaa
Varices cerdite/Créditeure divers              2.194.528            301.962        t!.892.566)
Unpeid ezp see/Chargee à paer                 23.490.917         15.141.053        (8.349.864)
vaus pidd in advasee/Comieetos compte
d'avance                                    32.367.025        36.203.946           3.836.421
Long-tara Finascinm/Fonde d intervanttons
Subaidiea/Suben rlumnn à accorder            191.002.826         86.050.000      (104.952.826)
Studio e finane d)/Ptncenemnt d'Utuden
aceord4ce                                  276.769.516        352.748.961         75.979.US
Studieo (to b. finmîtad)/Flinncoeet
d'Itudee à accorder                        243.730.404        166.751.039       t76.97Q.445)
luterent Cfirsnecd)/San±ftcatiaon  arcordée   56.213.865        68.129.554          11.915.N9
Intereat <ta be f£naced)/IoIftctiana 8
accorder                                   617.786.135        604.579.603       (13.206.532)
Availible in t et funde/Ponde
d'intervsntion dpmonible                       619.276          5.425.645          4.806.169
Continsenci a/Proavlnoan pour ritqueg         154.500.000       391.941.301        217.441.301
ItCained  art.ings/aporte  I nouveau                   -   <6.100.141.732)   t6 O10     1.732)
Statutary/lliervea esaCutairea               330.509.447        330.509.4U7
lnveataea.c reeeyva/Maarvea
d'tnervenriona                             225.000.000         75.000.000      (150.000.000)
lapit el Contributiona/Dotatione
Seceived/Dotations  retea ..es uEtat       9.322.185.550    10.305.485.550         983.300.000
trpactcd/Dotations attendue-. d"a Mras     3.177.814.450     3.194.514.450          16.700.000
Salane. for the yer/lUsP aet                           -          9.195.618          9.195.blO
Tatala tiebilitiee/Totaux passif          14.654.184.019      9.541.836.197



- 27 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 5
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES OF CEAO AND FOSIDEC/
REVENUS ET DEPENSES DE LA CEAO ET DU FOSIDEC
CEAO FOSIDEC Budgets (1983 andlet 1984)
(in CFAFIen FCFA)
Years/       Operating Budget/          Equipment Budget/
Années       Budget Fonctionnement      Budget Equipement        Total Budget
1983             317.465.620               12.223.415             329.689.035
1984             380.398.582                7.000.000             387.398.582



CEShS ?iOJECTIflOJET CE8AG
INCOKE AND  EIPNDITUUS O  CEAO M D    IDLDC
REVENUS ET DBPDNSES DE LA CIAm ET Du rDIDIC
C8AO - Suary Table of Incom  sd Estwadituree 1980-1982/
CEAD - Tableau **noptique du rieultat de la usetion 1950-198
(CAM  Mullionuimullioaa ICA)
1980                                   1981                                   1982
Budget/     Actual/                      B udgset/   Actuell                    Budget/   Actu l
Prise au    Actuel                        Priee en  Actuel                      Prise en  Actuel
Charie      Recouvrements   Balance    Charge    Recouvrements   Balance   Charge    Reouvrmbente   Balance
1. Starting Balance/
balance d'entrés
a) Cash balancest
Disponible                     1,949          1,949            -         1,925        1,925           -         2,533        2,533            -
b) Receivables/
Réalisable                     2,822          1,396         1,426        4,831        2,614        2,217        6,903       4,225          2,678
2. Current Year/
Exercice courent                                                                                                                                         w
a) Budget rcceipt/
Recettes budgitair*es
-  Operatin. budgetl
budget de fonctionnement         575            307           268          738          330          408          892          266           626
-  PCO budget/budget du FCD       4,203          1,645         2,558        4,507          806        3,701        6,926          373         6,553
-  Euildings/I sublea               750             170          580        1,000          443          SS7           -            -             -
-  Debts UD»UDettes UDEA             -              -             -            35           16           19           -            -             -
b) Other receipte/Autres
recettees
-  Diverse recelptc/
Recettes diverses                  7              7            -            23           23 S2                                  52
- Direct resenue/
Produite financiers               98             98            -            73           73           -           146          146       -
Total receipte/                                                                        -
Recettes totales              10,404          S,572         4,832       13,132        6,230        6,902       17,452        7,595         9,857     1
Total e*penditurcs/
Dipenses totales                              3,437                                   3,692                                  8,929
Sources CIAO - Compte de esationg 1980, 1981 et 1982.



- 29 -
AUNEX 2-2
kage 4 of 5
SENEGAL
CESAC PROJECT/PROJET OESAG
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES OP CEAO AND FOSIDEC/
REVENUS ET DEPENSES DE LA CEAO ET DU POSIDEC
Evolution of CEAO Flnancial Resources (1982)1
Evolution des ressources financires de la CEAD (1982)
(CFAF K±llioniMillions FCFA>
1980      1981      1982
Receipts during the year/Recettes pendant
l'annhe                                    3,624      4,305     5,063
Cash balance beginning of fiscal year/
Fonds disponsibles au début de l'année
budgétaire                                 1,949      1,925     2,533
Receivables beginning of fiscal year/
Soldes a recouvrir au début de l'année
budgétaire                                 2,822      4,831     6,903!-
ai vas CFAF 9,857 million at the end of 19821
était de FCFA 9,857 million à la fin de l'année 1982.
Source: CEAO - Compte de gestion; 1980, 1981 et 1982.



- 30 -
Ali= 2-2
Page 5 of 5
SEREGAL
CESAG PROJECTI/EOJET CESAG
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES OF CEAO AND POSIDEC
CEAO Incoae and Expenditures
(CFAF Million)
Actual                      Budteted
1980      1981          1982      1983       1984
Income
Budgeted                  109404.0  13,132.0      17,452.0       -          -
of which FCD             4,203.0   4,507.0       6,926.0       -         -
Actual                     5,572.0   6,230.0       7,595.0       -          -
of which FCD             1,645.0      806.0        373.0       -         -
Allovance (earned as
a receivable the
folloving yeas)          4,832.0   6,902.0       9,857.0       -         -
Expenditures               3,437.0   3,692.0       8,929.0   9,009.0  14,737.0
Operating expenses
expenditures             (855.0)   (825.0)       (942.0) (1,012.0) (1,183.0)
Compensatory paymeuts  (856.0) (1,181.0)    (6,804.0) (59058.0) (6,384.0)
Investments              (650.0) (1,305.0)       (216.0)    (10.0) (3,980.0)
Community projects    (1,076.0)   (381.0)        (967.0) !`,929.0) (3,190.0)
Actual incoae les.
expenditures               2,135.0   2,538.0   (-)1,334.0        -
October 1985



*E14EOAL
CESAC PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
DEHAD/SUPPLY 0O  AFRICAN MANAGERS 1I  CeAO RENIER STATS: SENIOR LEVEL/ 
OVnh/DEIWIDE GESTIONNAIRES AFRICAINS DANS LES ETATS H@ENRES DE LA CEAOU  NIVEAU SUPERIEUR
Staff-in-Postl           Additional Staff REq./Yccr/                                                     ln-service Training/
Personnel en poste       lesoins en Personnel/An.             Education Prograu/Forution                 Formtion en tours d'emploi
Number of                               For Bunincsc  For Rai-       R.quired                                         Trg. Needs   Trg. Output
nterpriuse/                8xpa-        Groith/        placement/    Output/           Preuent Input     Annual       Pur Yeor/    Par Teor/
Couatry/    Nombre         Nationale/  triatesf      Pour          Pour Rem-      Yeartlesoin      (Annual)/Rtcru-   Deficit       essoins      Production
P&FY        antreorises   Nationaux   Expatrié.    Croissance    placement        Total/Annuel     te.ent/Annuel      Annuel      Forme/Au.    Form./An.    Deficit  I
Burkina       1,225           210         300             10           30              40                 20            20           42              O          4
Ivory Coast/
CSte d'Ivoire 5t790         2,710       4,450            135          445             580                 85           495          542            265         27
ali          1,080           550         270             14           27              41                  0            41           110            40           7
Hauritania/
Kauritanie      600           200         140              5            14             19                  0            19            40             0          4
Miser           950           49S         245             13           24              37                 15            22           99              0          9
Senegal       4,580         2,520         900             63           90             153                 65            88          504            215         20
Total        14,225         6,685       6,305            240          630             870                185           685         1,337           520         ai
._.....                                                  .n.  .             ne..                      mam an   . .                 M.
Source:  CNUCED, SIT - Etude sur le CESAMI, 1979
(miusfon estimate./estiuatiens de la mission)
WAPED
October 1985



SENWGAL
CESAG PROJECTIPROJET CESAG
DEID/SUPPLY OF AFRICAN HANAGERS IN CEAO HEPBR STATSua NIDDLE-LEVEL/
OFMRE/DEKAKDE CESTIONNAIRES AFRICAINS DANS LES ETATS IKWRES DE LA CIAOt NIVEAU HOYEN
Staff-in-Post/            Additional £taff Req./Ytear/                                                       In-service Training/
Personnel eon poste       Besoins en Personnel/An.              Education Prograls/Formation                 Formation en cours d'emploi
For Busiasas  For Rem-        Required                                          Trg. Keeds   Trg. Output
Expa-        Grovthl         placement/    Output/            Present Input      Annual       Par Tear!    Per Teur!
Country/        Nationale/  triateas       Pour           Pour Rem-      Year/Eesoin       (Annuel) /Recru-   Deficit      Besoins       Production
Pays            Nationaux   Expatriés    Croissance    placemnnt         Total/Annuel      teaent/Annuel      Annuel       Forj./Az.    rorm./An.    Deficit
Burkina            590          390            50             78               128                45              83           118           80            38           N
Ivory Corot/
C8te d'Ivoire  11,280         4,850           564            970            1,534                640             894         2,2S6          525         1,731
Hali             1,230          500            30            100               130                30             100           246           50           196
Kauritania/
Mauritanie         470          210            24             42               66                  0              56            94            0            94
Niger            1,570          640            78            128              206                  0             206           314            0           314
Senegal          7,040          980           352            196              548                190             358         1,408          120         1,288
Total           22,150        7,570         1,098          1,514            2,612                905           1,707         4,436          775         3,661
.uuu          m.....        maman              a            maman               Oum           uuu*u          mu..           m-- *.-.
Sources  CNUCE#, BIT - Etude sur le CESAH, 1979
(mission estimatea/estimationu de la mission)
VAPID
0ctobe%! 1985



CESAG PRKJECT/PROJET CESAC
SUMRT OF SPECULIST'SERVICES/TABLEAU 5010/IdU DES SPECALLISTES DE L'ASSISTAZCETECUNIQUE
Total
an-
months/
Total
Title/                             mois-                                 Sumary job description/
Titre                              hoes                                  Description soaire des taches
Progrea Director/Dlrecteur des                      33                 To  sasist the Director Ceneral in programing all educational
progrmmes                                                              and training activities and coordinste the research and consul-
ting progran; liasie vith enterprisea and training institutions
of CEAO tmember states and manage the training-of-trainers pro-
grama and the overceac fellowahip prograclAider le Directeuàc
général à programar toute. les activités d'enseignement et de
formation et coordonner le prograe de recherche et de coneultant;
assurer la liaison avec les entreprises et les établissements de
formation des Etats membres de la CE/AO; administrer les progra.a
de formation des formateurs ainsi que le prograeme de bourses &
l'étranger.
Expert in Accounting/Expert en                      12                 To draw up a curriculum for training progra:; advise on prepara-
camptabilitd                                                           tion of case studies and traini8g materials in hi. field of
specialty /Elaborer un plan d'études pour les programs de
formation; conseiller sur la préparation des études de cas et
élaborer des matériels didactiques dans sa spécialisation.
Marketing                                           45                 To drav up curriculum for training programa in marketing; supervise
practical training in enterprisesa prepars and test case etudies and
training aterials in hi. field of speciaity/Elaborer un plan d'études
pour les progrses en marketing; superviner la formation pratique au
sein des entreprises; préparer et tester de. études de cas et élaborer
des matériels didactiques dans sa spécialiaation.
Expert in production management/                    24                 To draw up a curriculum for training programs ln production anagement;
Expert en gestion de la produc-                                        aupervise practical training in enterpriss; prepare and test case studioa
tion                                                                   and training materials in hi. field of specialty/Elaborer un pldh d 'tudes
pour les programees de formation en gestion de la production; superviser
la formation pratique au sein des entreprises; préparer et tester des
études de cas et élaborer des materiela didactiques dans sa specialieation.
Expert in Personnel Managment/                      24                 To drav up a curriculum for training programe in personnel anagemnt;
Expert en gestion du personnel                                         supervise practical training in anterptise.m; prepare and test case studies
and training materials in hie field of epecialty/Elaborer un plan d'études
pour les prograes de formation en gestion depersonnel; superviser la
formation pratique au sein des entreprisae; Preparer et tester des *tudea
de cas et elaborer dea matériels didactiques dans sa sp5cialisation.
Consultants                                         40.2               Varyung perioda for each consultant in the areas of specimlty needed by the
training, research and conaultancy progrpus. Specific terme of reference vill fl
be prepared by the Progran Diractor/Diverses periodes pour chaque consultant
dans les domaines de splcialisation respectifs de chacun d'eux pour les
besoins des programes de formation, de recherche et de consultants. Le
Directeur des programmes r9digera le mandat affUrant à chaque consultant.
Auditor                                              e>                Annual audit of project account/Vérification annuelle des comptes du projet.



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAC
SUYYARY OP PELLOVRIPS/TABLeuU SOMAIRe DES EOURSES DE IORMATION
Reference to                                       Total                              Basie
appraisal                                          man-                               qualificatiozis
report/                                            months/                            of trainees/
R6t£rence dans                                     Total                              QuaIlfications                                                Descripeon
le rapport            Field of Study/              mois-                              fondamentales
d'dvaluation          Sujet d'itudes               houmes                             des boursiers
4.03          Financial management/               24                        B.A. or equivalent/License ou                     To obtain a Haster'! degree in financial manage-
(c)          Cestion financiere                                            grade univeritaire équivalent                     ment/Obtenir une malitriue en gestion financiere.
Personnel .anageoent/               24                                       "                                  To obtain a Nester9s degree in personnel manage-
!qestion du personnel                                                                                           ment/Obtenir tne maltrise en gestion du  arsonneL
Organisation developsent and        24                                       "                                  To obtain a Haster's degree in organisation deve-
behavior/Divaloppue-nt organi-                                                                                  lopment and behavior/Obtenir une mattrise en
sationnel et comportement au                                                                                    developpement organisationnel et comportement
sein de l'organisation                                                                                          au sein de l'organisation.
Accounting and auditing/            24                                       "                                  To obtain à Haster'a degre  in accounting and
Comptabiliti et verifica-                                                                                       auditing/Obtenir une maLtrise en comptabiliti
tion des comptes                                                                                                et vérification des comptes.
Computer science and systeus        24                        BA. or equivalent in mathe-                       To obtain a Haster's degree in computer science
analysis/Inforuatique et ana-                                matice/License ou grade                            and systew analysis/Obtenir une mattrise an
lyse des systim4s                                            universitaire équivalent an                        informatique et analyse des systmes.
mathématiques
Quantitative techniques/            24                                       "                                  To obtain a Haater's degrea in quantitative
Techniques quantitatives                                                                                        techniques/Obtenir une mattrise an tachniqucs
quantitatives.
lusiness adminiotration (con-       36                        H.A. or equivelent and teaching                   To obtain a Ph.D. in business administration vith
centrationt  International                                    experience of at least two yearo/                 a major field for the Ph.D. rsaearch in interna-
business)/Gestion des entre-                                  Maitrise ou grade universitaire                   tional buoiness/Obtenir un doctorat én gestion
prises (spécialisations                                       équivalent et au minimm deux ans                  des entreprises assorti de travaux de recherches
coaaerce internationtal)                                      d'experience de l'enseignement                    sp;cialisêes dans le comerce international. 
Finance and banking/Les             36                                       "                                  To obtain a Ph.D. in finance and banking
finances et la banque                                                                                           vith emphasis on the management of firancial             j
Inatitutions/Obtenir un doctorat en finance et
banque axé sur la gestion des institutions fi-
nancières.



StNEGAL
CESAC PRWECf/PROJET CESAC
ORQaIIZATIOYIAL CHART CESAG/
OIRAiIUO    CESAO
Conforence of
Hoado of State/
Conférence des
chef. d'ltat
Hinisters; Council,
Conseil des ministres
de la CEAO
| Exécutive Bard                        dcttnCucl 
|Conseil d'Adainit rationl~-Scp7  I U2
Director/      |                an gemnt Counctil/
Dean/Doyen du                                                  Progrs  Directort                                                                   Financial and Administrative                   w
Corps professoral                                          Directeur des prograes                                                                        Director/Directeur
financier et administratif
Rend of DSCti              Hend of in-service      Bend of consultant        Head of training, re-         Boarding/Rltelleri*    Administration       Central *ervicea/
Responsable DSCE             training/Responsable      ervices/Responsable      search and pedagogical                                  personnel        Servites généreux
Long course/Cycle long         formtion permanente          cdn ultation          support services/Hespon-                               nccounting
sable Formtion des for.-                                 Buraar/
- AltOtnatiiig/                   - tNational/                                   formt.uro. recherche et                              Administration
Alternance                        National                                     logistique pidamogique                                  personnel
- Permanent/                      - Counity/                                                                                           couptabilité
Continue                          co_unauteire                                                                                         Economt
- Professora/Professeurs                                                                                 - Pedagogical aupport/           - Food services/
Logistique pédagogique           Restauration
Proisaeurs p ssooi                                                                                   - Librnry/Bibliothlque            - nousing/Logenat
- Part-tie teachers/                                                                                     - Computer center/Centre
Vacataires                                                                                               informtique
- Assistenta/Assistants                                                                                  - Audiovisuel center/
Atelier pedagogique
- Viaiting lecturere/                                                                                      audio-visuel
Professeurs invites
- Yyping pool/Pool dsctqlo
- Reproduction center/Centre
de reprographie
- Publications/Publication
Sources CSAO - CESAGS Centre d'Etudes Supirleures Africain de Ctotion, 1982.



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAC
DETAILED COST TABLE/TABLEAU DETAILLE DES COUTS
(CPAF Million and US$ MIllions FCFA et $EU)
0.aaX. i Tgl5f IiKI. >,1.
18W,s XluIi. Cbiatun                                         44}
1aIl «Mal. NU«5 a
8906  1901  lui  1119  Tilil    1906      1901       lmN       190       total        lm6        If"                  lmU      tot       for. Do.    1 1_         Toue    To
_es  e.fl...  .ls     _av   _nen  aeee. e88....  -aa     .onsosevn                                       . --wwB--SasUI- -l5       -fS    eiesu          asses in a           In
i.o U      CIVLM  CMVIL                             47.013.9  4741617.3 IU.1627.0                     lé,î9 o 1996  640.001.4  111,11.6        8 171.40.1   144,191.1 102421623.2   M13411.0        1,1001917.0  toinsi1444   706192.5        - 1.110.19.
0.  mi          n      rmg-f                         3.00,1.   20.102.0  1.1151.4       -    l,oj .80.            60.    14,119.1               45,166.J     0,92,0   14.194.0   1264.7                flo.00.7    1M.00.      11.144.6            91,00.1       w
C. 001.89 - 90011                                         -          -657.It                63m.î                           11102..9    I-                                        811,0.6             l01i,4.6   111497.4    6       .3       - 18.. ran dé-
o. tmou  -£010                                                 .1.   1130             - 1.60               * 5.1.    0,1.                      1,1 -             -   2.46.0 21.10.I20,1631.6   U4h61.                               -24,11.
eulst= mr e  Mno     - V_t<I  ml vi Oe»
s11111  qmj,t                                    02.119.    02,96    68.0*.0         *      e,M,g 19.010.1   fl.191.2   17719.9              292.02.6   101,104.9  1951,9.4  151l,61.]             516.34.7   96,174.7                          6e1
61011  oOTU  * 01 1111111                         4.941.0   .78 2.0                                   M -  à76. , 1  "97i. -4            *   11.410.6 -31.92.   11.6111.7                       *  119.91.3  IUiWi118 82                     1195.0            1
UmmU                                              1.,.    671,à1    161.6I.  11,11.0  M3,uio.  1n.11n.4   10,00,0    b1.9 017.0  366..    14411.1   1.1i.2  IM791J  1011.1  624.IU.7   624,12.J                                   i- 4- 112,7
191:e1 num                                *                           UU. "wu*  16.905.0   61,61A.0.71.J  .  I1131.6 lM.    10. 4  42.06 ,,4         - 162.011.1    17.9.    164418.2  113241.1  -  120.194.0   32301940                   -  00.14".1
Kit1lim   R 9 MtOI Xo m                - alS/     mUfi 6,01,0    6 1 01.A            *   331,20.0  11e0.1  710149.9   6818611,4          -  1611.17         ,I2.0 1- 1911.2  31914i91.1         -  9694.0    9 94.0                    *       i m14.
ou1m?                                            12t61.0   029.   9.9n1.0  41.160.0  2151M.19  vo$9,11    39>111.2   *1,i0.? 931.102J   329,112.1  lI1.1n4.9  195MA0.   5109,86.6 114.140.1  611,101.    611,711.1                 -       -621i9.8
uIt                                               1    0    1.61.0   16110.0  16110    22.140.   6.19.1    6.170.0   7n7s0,1  76642   2.429.1.    134.1   11i.09.   é1410.6  l641,3  0l. 0 b                    11..               _       . - U01
0ItlS44          TM 0   WUIKII C1 t l41. 10                              4        97l.0 116e1.0 -12..1  494,20.1   M064,l82.624.2 *         *      0e3      631.61  127 .                         *    111   2-04117.7                        -  ii.S
i.  U15  - 91.101                                6110290         - 420.0  618621.0   -202. -6 n12.i4   7.mti.    151uivi                e- 9       til4é.3   149.311.1   1 0.2  17 121017          U04ll1.4   0484MA               *           4 1441.4
tous 1191101  osITS                                  inie49.4   511445.1 4420199.1 f97u.11. 2.111,4011- 47910,2.6 1.219.96,08  019.2.. 8132624.2 2,ê921712.1   011li.1. 2.4111036.4 1.1M.1M09 270.01.i 1.4¶.li0.4 4.61j7.11.    00.02,           * 1,49 .31
il. mDn toms
ntn*t_«| l            §        mm       L     * 8@w5  s74#7     lIpwAsI*nfu.5  u.e                                                                                                                                          M  uls37w2   N §8-2  idti4lu-t,1 fsl2   
1oIl C1TU 0021                                   07.197.    t@5 103.601.1 U20.271.1  99.140.0  410,02.1  94.249,3   820.907.3  1 U-417  *9 2  1020115    19i2.10.1  246,149.6   1      9 2      *6,24.4 824.1103   i243.9.2    *Nt         * 1      1M
td es     R O fft t M ii                               *      V        f      i227.3  flu- :7 5,6 7 2       viss On s ..-  . u .. n . a   e as   m, ,  2 a n a n a   n a s e m ,a   n a  a  m as2v -   .s a m n a   Ua. h .   -a          -e  i s a s e
fouil                                                 514.191.9 1.499.132.6 Mi241à6. 197,6150,0 I.193.21î056..9   1.4 40. W p U.I lè1.021,2.1 261,04.4 301.19.16.6  1.112.110.0 2.111u.10     2.00.26.01546.9510.06119fl.6    4.1812661.2 1,617,10,1  * 4.119f.?2.
,.u.,n   minen. flausi Enla.. tua.u.  n»..e- ....nm               maie      u u.*m n   nn            avissan   musa  aseam   anas                    n~ef  nisasse   a           se
WAPED
October 1985



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
CESAG RECURRENT COSTS BY SCHOOL YEAR/DEPENSES DE FONCTIONNEMENT CESAG PAR ANNEE ACADEMIQUE
(CFAV million/Million FCFA)
1985/86       1986/87 il  1987/88 el  1988/89        1989/90
Recurrent Coste/Dépenses de fonctionnement
Salaries/Salaires b/                             60            110           145          150          170
Other Recurrent Costa/Autres dépenses                                            el
de fonctionnement                              85            125           220          230         240
Total                                            135           235           365          380          410
Income/Revenue
Tuition Fees/Droits d'inscription                 20 d/         20 -/         70           70           80
Consultations,                                   40             75            70           80           90
Other/Autres -                                    30            30            90           90          100
Financing by CEAO/Fir.ancement par la CEAO       45            110           135          140          140
Total                                            135           235           365          380          410
Percentage of CEAO Financing/Pourcentage
financement CEAO                               33             47            37           37          34
a/ Transitional year ESGE/CESAG/Année de transition ESGE/CESAG.
b/  Excludes salaries of technical assistants financed by IDA/Salaires des assiistants techniques non-compris.
c/  Includes boarding fees from 60 persons, assuming students contribute 2/3 of boarding cost estimated at
CFA! 200,000 per year/Inclus coût de fonctionnement de l'aménagement des pensions pour 60 personnes
basé sur l'hypothèse que les étudiants contribueront pour 2/3 des coÙts d'internat estimés à
FCFA 200,000 par an.                                                                                            i
d/  Due to uncertainty on the date of transfer to CESAG, ESGE did not recruit candidates for the clase of
1985/88/La date de transfert au CESAG étant indertiminée, ESGE n'a pas recruté les candidats pour               '
les années 1985/88.
Source: Updated mission estimates/Estimations révisées de la mission d'évaluation.



SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT/PROJET CESAG
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
CALENDAR YEAR/Année Civile               1984  _   1985        1986      1987  _  1988       1989               _.
QUARTERlTrimestre         |2|3 4 1 2 3            314-1 2 3    .  1 2   4 1  213 4
COMPONENTS/Elments                       -   _  T    T                  … _ _                          …-
CIVIL WORKS/BATIMENTS                                                                       -              …-
- Tendering/Appel d'offres                 --…-……                                                                           
- Bld Evaluationi/Adjudication-----
- Construction
EQUIPMENT-FURNITURE/EQUIPEMENT-MOBILIE…                                … _ T T  _ _ _ _
- BiddinR Documents/Dossiers A.O.                 T                  - _ _ _ _  _  _ 
- Tendering/Appel d'offres        …                             -       - I  _   _
- Bid Evaluation/Adiudication
- Deliveries/Livraisons
SPECIALIST SERVICES/ASSISTANCE TECHNIQ
- Program Director/Directeur des
Programmes
- Marketing
- Accounting/Comptabilité
- Personnel Management/Gestion du
Personnel
- Production Management/Gestion de la
Production
- Consultants
FELLOWSHIPS /BOURSES
- Ph. D,/Doctorats (2)                                                                                               l
- Master's Degrees/Licences (6)              I
. ~~~~~~-  :11   r . T T _ _ _ _ _ _ _ r   -  -l - I I I -1-  -    1' L 



SVENCAL
CESAC PROJECT/PROJET CESAC
FSTINATED IDA DISPURSEUEID   SC  DULEICALEDRInR DE DfOltJElTS  TtSUATII
Estimated
Credit Disbursmmentiaotimtif
des diboursemntte du Cridit
tVS Tbousands/Hilliere)
IDA Fiscal Yeser
and Querterai                                                       Regional Sector Profile/
IDA Années fisca-    Ey Quarter/          Cumulative/               Profil au niveau rfgtonal
les et trimestres    Par trimestre        Cumulatif          1      (la percentape/en pourcentage)
1986   I                                                                            1                   les.
Ii                    150                150           2.7                                                                                   .
IV                   250                400           7.3                     6
.~ i*      Eatiuat.d Project
1987   1                    300               700          12.7                                          8- Dlburseent ProEilel/
il                   400               il0          20.0                    12                    70      Profil estimatif te 
XII             ~~~~450           1550          28.2                   ~                        0     dlbouraementg du
IV                   650               2200          40.0                    18                           projet
1908    I                   800              3000          54.5                                     .:                            /
il                   500               3500          63.6                    26                                                            .
lXi                   400               3900          71.0                                           W,
IV                   300               420!I         73.4                    35
1909   I                    300              4500          81.8                                                                         .            -
il                   250              4750           86.4                    44             .      30                 /                 Jegional Sector
Ili                   250               5000          91.0                                     *                                         Profile/Profil du
IV                   200               5200          94.5                    54              q     20s ecteur au niveau
1990   I                    100              5300          96.4                                                           .* u                r_ io.-
11                   100               5400          98.2                    63 
III                    50               5450          99.1
IV                    50               5500         100.0                    72                                     à r     O . .  a .  a .  a "  a .  a . . .
1991 1131310131313
Il  98                     . 1986       1987      1988      1989      1990    1991
lit                                                                                                                  IFA FiDcA l Teara nd QuarterD
IV                                                                          100                                   ID.Ani  f           et trimet"r a
NOTE:   The divergence betveen the regienal sector profile and credit diabursement
profile te explained by the follovwing  (i) project l  esasentielly a                              Assuted date of Cradit en vctiveneur   t Febri uar  19898
continuation of an existing achoolg tii) civil vorka, equipsent and furniture                      Date probable de aise en vigueur   février 1986
procurameet are ready for implesentation; *nd (iii) the life of the project
la four years as opposed to the regional profila of eight yearelLa différence
entre le profil du secteur à l'Ichelle régionale et les dtbourseeentu du
Crédit s'explique par ce qui suits (i) le projet consiste essentiellement an
l'extension d'une dcole dijà existante; (if) les marchEs pour les travaux de
ginie civil, les équipements et le mobilier sont prit. pour leur mlie en
oeuvre; et titil la durte du projet est de quatre sonoes alors que la profil
au niveau rFginole oemprend huit onnfee.
WAPED
October 1985



IBRO 166672.
f                       20'                     -- _  0 GCCO  _                             2 G-                             }°0                        WEST AFRICA
AFPIQUE DE L'OUEST
G  -                                                 '*- /  g   j   -i    \.                                  cJ       WEST  AFRICAN  ECONOMIC  COMMUNITY
"I  ".                                            Ç                            ~~~~~~~~~~CEAO
Atla nric  Oc( n                a n                                                                                                  COMMUNAUTE ECONOMIOt'E DE
f ~   jo    /                           XtA L G E R I A                                         L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST GA CEAOJ
20,  kEM~~ *-.TES iF OF T\ CE2R
M.  A   UEl R  I   T   A    N   I   A   t  <-   /  ,   _    _    _  I EMORES  DE   LA  C T HE
;  .  echott                           j                                Ç    ,                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~N   .  !  C~1~U SNATiDV  LE oSAHR  D.r
*=.t-'' REPU>C OF                                                                                                                                          .' |IRS
°  CAPE   VERDE  j   M  A L iiRVTERES
-   TERNATONAL SENNEA  ES
N.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ocTEs r~ER .TE;NtR,CoRL--ES
-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -DCTSETRl0~ 0F CoavTEE»\_  \v    F)<ENIN    '( 
k                                MAURITANIA                                                                                                              FOR- -"UU.~DTR PANT0 SRE 
-'   FREPUBLC    0F                                                                               I G  E.
O~CPE VERDE
~~~ a~ ~ ~ a
P~~o  ~ ~         SENEGAL                                 1
THE GAMBI  '*_
GUINEA.BISSAIJ
At/Oantic   Ocean        Fe,                          |ZONE  -     9   'R           T       3                                 J N E|
'-   s ~ ~  ~   ~    
;z; ~  ~\é\Ab ta                )/   CAMEROO
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 200>  ~0   -'6'   00
S-. ~~~~n~~e ~Kilomewes
e--



