Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11470
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA (Communauté financière africaine) franc is fixed with respect to the French franc (FF1 =
CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar. In this report the following conversion rates have
been used (sec also Part III, Table 8, "Evolution of Exchange Rates"):
Appraisal Exchange Rate
US$1.00     = CFAF 490
CFAF 1 million = US$2,041
Project Average Exchange Rate
US$ 1.00    = CFAF 303
CFAF 1 million = US$3,300
Completion Year Exchange Rate
US$1.00     = CFAF 272
CFAF 1 million = US$3,676
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAD         West African Development Bank (Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement)
CEAO         West African Economic Community (Communauté Economique de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest)
CEDEAO       Economic Community  of West African  States (ECOWAS) (Communauté
Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
CESAG        Regional Management School for the CEAO (Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures
en Gestion)
COFEB        West African Center for Banking Education and Training (Centre Ouest Africain de
Formation et d'Etudes Bancaires)
ENA          National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration)
ESGE         Business Management School (Ecole Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprises)
FAC          French Aid Agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération)
FCD          CEAO's Community Development Fund (Fonds Communautaire de Développement)
FOSIDEC    CEAO's Loan Guarantee Fund (Fonds de Solidarité d'Intervention pour le
Développement Communautaire)
UMOA         West African Monetary Union (Union Monétaire Ouest Africaine)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Senegal: July 1 - June 30
CEAO: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic, c DIr.ctar-Gnenra
Op.aonr Evaluaton
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE, PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Senegal
CESAG Proiect (Credit 1638-SE)
Attached is a copy of the above-named report, prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part
II was prepared by the Borrower.
The objective of this project was to transform a national training institute into a regional one,
thereby achieving economies of scale and contributing to regional integration. The outcome was an
improved set of buildings and the transformation of a well functioning institute into a poorly
managed, high cost training entity of limited relevance to regional needs. This unfortunate
consequence resulted from a flawed and overly ambitious concept, poor financial administration,
several unfortunate appointments, and inadequate Bank appraisal and supervision.
The Borrower's Part Il of the PCR presents a more positive picture of the project and a
different view of the causes of its shortcomings. An audit is not proposed, however, because
information about this project is quite complete and the lessons learned would be of limited value
given the unique circumstances of the project.
Attachment
This document has a restrlcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o
their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authouza=on.



t



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... jii
PART I.   REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE..                                   1
A. Project Identity .
B. Background.                                                              1
C.  Project Objectives and Description.                                     2
D. Project Implementation.                                                  2
E. Project Results.                                                         4
F. Lessons Learned.                                                         6
PART IL.  REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 11
A.  Project Impact on CESAG's Development .i
B.    Relationships Among Parties to the Project .il
C. Lessons to be Drawn .12
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION    ..15
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits .15
Table 2:  Project Timetable .16
Table 3a:  Credit Disbursements .17
Table 3b:  Disbursement Schedule .17
Table 4:  Implementation Schedule .18
Table 5:  CESAG Total Costs .19
Table 6:  CEAO Contributions .20
Table 7:      Allocation of Proceeds and Disbursements in SDRs .21
Table 8:   Evolution of Exchange Rate .22
Table 9:  Specialist Services .23
Table 10: Fellowships .24
Table 1 la:  Training Programs .25
Table llb:    Number of Students by Country .26
Table 12:  Consulting Activities .26
Table 13a:  Staff Input by Stage .27
Table 13b: Mission Data .27
Table 14:  Schedule of Audit Reports .28
Table 15:     Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the CESAG Project for Senegal,
for which Credit 1638-SE was approved on November 26, 1985, in the amount of SDR 5.5 million
(US$5.5 million equivalent in 1985). The Credit was closed on October 31, 1991, 16 months behind
schedule. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 5.3 million (US$6.8 million equivalent in 1991),
with the final disbursements in October 1991. The remaining balance of SDR 0.2 million (US$0.3
million equivalent in 1991) was canceled.
This PCR was prepared jointly by staff in the Africa Technical Department, Education
Division, and the Sahelian Department, Population and Human Resources Operations Division (Parts
I and III). Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower prior to having seen Part I. Minor
editorial and formatting adjustment have been made to Part II in order to ensure conformity with
publication standards.
Preparation of this PCR was carried out at headquarters, following a mission to
Senegal in March 1992. In addition to the mission's findings, the report is based, inter alia on the
Staff Appraisal Report, President's Report, Development Credit Agreement, and IDA files relating
to the project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectivmes
1.          The primary objective of this project was to assist the West African Economic
Community (CEAO) in transforming an existing Senegalese management training institution (Ecole
Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprises -- ESGE) into a regional institution -- the Centre Africain
d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion (CESAG) -- for the training of senior- and middle-level managers
in private and parastatal enterprises. The proposal to convert the existing school into a regional
institution was the outcome of a series of meetings between officials of the West African Economic
Community (Communauté économique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, CEAO), Senegalese officials, and
IDA staff. It was based on the well recognized need to improve economic management in CEAO
countries; the perceived advantages of economies of scale arising from the provision of management
training through a regional institution; the ability of this type of institution to attract higher levels of
donor cooperation; and the increased potential such an institution would offer for interaction among
managers from different countries. The principal functions of CESAG were to: (a) establish broad-
based, graduate-level management programs; (b) organize short upgrading programs in specific
subjects for senior managers; (c) serve as a resource center for other management training institutions
in the region by establishing teacher training programs and providing assistance in the development
of training materials; (d) serve as a research center for the development of management systems
adapted to the African environment; and (e) provide consulting services to businesses in planning and
implementing management and organizational systems.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.          From the outset, CESAG's performance was hampered by serious institutional
management problems. Although the project was appraised in April 1982, the subsequent processing
of the project experienced significant delays as a result of internal differences of opinion in Senegal
regarding the desirability of the project; problems in finalizing the agreements establishing CESAG
as an autonomous legal entity; hesitation on the Government's part over the transfer of government-
owned facilities at ESGE to the new institution; as well as extensive disagreement between IDA and
CEAO regarding CEAO's nominee for the post of Director General. The project was finally
presented to the Board in November 1985, over two and one-half years later than initially expected.
3.          The civil worls component of the project, which included the construction of a
multipurpose lecture hall, adaptation of classrooms to accommodate computer training programs, and
construction of lodging for 60 students, was implemented successfully. The other components of the
project, however, were less successful, as discussed in the following paragraphs.



- iv -
4.           The recruitment of technical assistance experts experienced considerable delays largely
for administrative reasons. Arrangements for technical assistance were the responsibility of the
International Labour Organisation (ILO) under a contract with CESAG, financed by the IDA Credit.
ILO was thus the contractor for technical assistance and, as such, was only responsible to CESAG.
But IDA implicitly assumed ILO would act as if it were an executing agency, not as the contractor
it was, and consequently did not insist on approving individual technical assistance contracts. In fact,
the actual provision of technical assistance did not correspond to that called for under the project,
as the most important fields of expertise, such as marketing, production management and behavioral
theory -- which were to account for 51% of total technical assistance -- were not provided for. The
bulk of the technical assistance was devoted instead to resident technical assistance consisting mostly
of the program director and the administrative officer which, in the end, represented 57% of technical
assistance as compared to 12% initially envisaged. Furthermore, once recruited, the consultants were
severely limited in their ability to perform given the tight controls exerted by the Director General,
and the transfer of know-how to CESAG staff was hampered considerably.
5.           With regard to fellowships, the program financed by the Credit aimed primarily to
upgrade the full-time faculty of the institution. Unfortunately, many of the fellowships were, in the
end, awarded to administrative staff, nonpermanent staff, or insufficiently qualified candidates.
Moreover, the Director General also undertook expensive training missions, on occasion accompanied
by administrative staff at the expense of the fellowship component. Following repeated warnings
against these abuses, IDA eventually stopped disbursements under this component.
6.           The institutional audit conducted under the auspices of ILO, and which was completed
in November 1991, indicates that the graduate-level training programs developed and offered by
CESAG have fallen short of meeting their objectives as defined under the project. The audit found
the programs to be overly theoretical in nature and thus of little practical use to trainees in the work
place. Moreover, very few courses have been adapted to address management training needs in the
African context. The audit also highlighted the continued excessive reliance on the traditional lecture
method of teaching. Finally, the programs have attracted predominantly public-sector students and
very few private-sector students, as a result of poor marketing on the part of CESAG and the
perceived weaknesses of the programs being offered. The shorter, in-service training courses have
been modestly successful. However these, too, lack sufficient relevance and have attracted a much
smaller degree of interest from the private sector than had been initially expected.
7.           CESAG  experienced  persistent financial problems throughout the project
implementation period. Costs were poorly contained and greatly exceeded appraisal estimates. While
in the early years CEAO was able to accommodate CESAG's budgetary requests without questioning
the justification or the cost-effectiveness of their use, in recent years it has been unable to provide
the full amount of requested counterpart funding, and the approved budget has not been released
on time. The lack of a marketing strategy coupled with the perceived poor quality of instruction
meant that the institution's revenues from instruction fell short of expected levels. Furthermore,
institutional accounts were not kept in a timely fashion, and audits were delayed. IDA has not yet
received the audits for 1990 and 1991 in spite of its approving the financing of such audits under the
Credit. After the project was closed, the Borrower and CESAG have been warned again that in the
event these audit reports were not received by October 31, 1992, IDA would exercise all legal
remedies.



v -
Sustainabilitv
8.           Serious questions remain concerning the overall quality of training offered by CESAG,
as well the institution's capability, given the severe and persistent management problems, to fulfill its
objectives. For these reasons, it is difficult to find evidence of institutional growth or project
sustainability. As proposed in the recent institutional audit (para. 6), a viable, sustainable institution
would require a major restructuring of existing programs, greater autonomy and accountability, strong
and well qualified management, and substantial additional resources.
Findines and Lessons Learned
9.           Regional projects. The problems associated with operating a regional institution were
inadequately assessed and taken into account in the project's design. As a result, many of the
benefits originally expected from transforming the existing Senegalese school into a regional
institution did not materialize. Crucial to the creation of a successful regional institution is the
development of a governance structure balancing operational autonomy by the institutional
administration with oversight by the governing board, in such a manner as to ensure accountability
and identification of emerging problems at an early stage. This aspect was not given sufficient
attention in project design. In hindsight, one may question whether the regional training function
which CESAG was created to perform would not have been more successfully accomplished through
strengthening the existing national institution (ESGE) rather than by transforming that institution into
a regional one.
10.          Assessment of Droject risks. By the time of project appraisal, there were emerging
indications as to the significant risks in proceeding with the proposed project including: doubts
regarding the ability of CEAO to provide the right kinds of support -- both financial and
administrative -- to CESAG; doubts as to whether or not CESAG's autonomy would be respected;
doubts as to the managerial competence of the nominated Director General; and doubts as to
whether or not the perceived demand for this type of training would in fact materialize. Although
no alternatives were proposed, the presence of a certain level of skepticism concerning the project's
chances for success, given the potential problems, was evident. In hindsight, the risks to the project's
success and sustainability turned out to be even greater than assessed at appraisal, and the hope that
technical assistance could overcome these risks proved ill-founded.
11.          Given that one of the essential elements to the success of any institution is the quality
and commitment of its key managers, the impact of CESAG's poor management has been severe.
IDA's evaluation and initial rejection of the politically appointed Director General candidate was
professionally correct and, in retrospect, project processing should not have been allowed to continue
until a fully acceptable candidate had been identified. Although that Director General has been
succeeded by another, the administrative patterns adopted during the tenure of the former remain
deeply engrained, problems persist, and the lessons of the previous regime remained unlearned.
12.          Supervision. With regard to IDA's supervision of the project, despite concern about
the potential risks involved in the appointment of CESAG's Director General, supervision of the
project was not consistent. The problems included: (a) excessive rotation of IDA staff -- task
management responsibilities changed four times over the last six years of project implementation;



-vi -
(b) abbreviated supervision missions -- to a great extent the timing and duration of supervision
missions were dictated by the other responsibilities of the respective task managers; and (c) an
inadequate rating system -- the three-category rating system used during much of the project's life
provided little leeway for qualitative assessment of implementation issues. In hindsight, it would have
perhaps been more appropriate to give project performance a lower rating, given the persistent
management problems, as a means to cail attention to those requiring immediate action. In the final
analysis, while it is evident that project supervision could have been more consistent, more frequent,
and more intensive, it remains doubtful as to whether IDA would have been able to change the
institution's management culture given the politics and bureaucratic lethargy inherent in regional
organizations with functional and regulatory modes such as those of CEAO.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
PART I. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BANKWS PERSPECTIVE
A.    Prolject Identitv
Title:             CESAG Project
Credit No.:        1638-SE
RVP Unit:         Africa Region
Country:          Senegal
Sector:                  Human Resources
Subsectors:       Education
B.    Backuround
1.1         The West African Economic Community (Communauté Economique de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest -- CEAO) was established in 1973 to promote economic development among its member
states -- Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal. As part of the
Community's mandate to develop strategies to enhance economic growth, it was recognized that the
development of competent managers for both the public and private sectors was of high priority.
Although several of the CEAO countries including Senegal, Côte d'Ivoire, and Mali were producing
graduates &rom national management schools, and while many nationals had benefitted from various
donor-financed management training programs, the region still lacked a critical mass of qualified
individuals capable of managing regional enterprises and institutions.
1.2         The impact of this shortage of management skills within CEAO countries had been
felt in a variety of ways. Meager human, physical, and financial resources continued to be poorly
utilized due in part to this lack of management expertise. Under these conditions, institutions had
been unable to perform the functions, and deliver the services, for which they had been created. In
addition, many institutions had been obliged to employ expatriate managers at high cost just to
maintain their management structures. As a result of these factors, it had become obvious that a
coherent strategy needed to be developed to improve both the numbers of management trainees
entering the work force and the quality of management training in general.
1.3         Following a series of meetings between Senegalese officials, CEAO officials, and IDA
staff, a proposal was prepared identifying a central role for a regional management school that would
serve both the CEAO member countries as weHl as other francophone countries in sub-Saharan
Africa. This proposal was based on the perceived advantages of economies of scale, the ability to



attract higher levels of donor cooperation, and the increased potential for interaction among
managers from different countries.
1.4         During the process of identifying regional management training needs and preparing
a viable proposal, Senegal was selected by CEAO to be the host country. In subsequent negotiations
between Senegal and CEAO, it was decided that the Senegalese business management school, Ecole
Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprises (ESGE) in Dakar, would be expanded to implement CEAO's
management training strategy for the region. Thus, a new regional management school was created
and named Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion (CESAG). The school was ultimately
financed by IDA through a credit to Senegal of SDR 5.5 million with CEAO counterpart funding of
US$1.02 million for recurrent costs. The project became effective in April 1986.
C.    Prolect Objectives and Description
1.5         The primary project objective was to assist CEAO in establishing a regional institution
for the training and upgrading of senior and middle-level managers in private and parastatal
enterprises. The principal functions of CESAG were to: (a) establish broad-based, graduate-level
management programs; (b) organize short upgrading programs in specific subjects for senior
managers; (c) serve as a resource center for other management training institutions in the region by
establishing teacher training programs and providing assistance in the development of training
materials; (d) serve as a research center for the development of management systems adapted to the
African environment; and (e) provide consulting services to businesses in planning and implementing
management and organizational systems.
1.6         The project consisted of the following components: (a) the construction, furnishing,
and equipping of teaching and boarding facilities on the former ESGE campus; (b) 15 person-years
of specialist services to develop management training programs; (c) 18 person-years of overseas
fellowships as part of a staff development program for teaching, consultancy, and research; and
(d) recurrent financing of CESAG operations during project implementation.
D.    Project Implementation
1.7         Project processing. Although the project was appraised in April 1982, processing was
delayed as a result of internal differences of opinion in Senegal regarding the desirability of the
project. There were also delays in finalizing the agreements establishing CESAG as an autonomous
legal entity and in finalizing the transfer to CESAG of the ESGE facilities that were owned by the
Govemment. In addition, there was extensive disagreement between IDA and CEAO regarding
CEAO's nominee for the post of Director General. This disagreement caused still further processing
delays which were finally resolved when IDA acceded to CEAO's selection. Board presentation was
initially planned for November 1984, but the CEAO member states needed more time to establish
the CESAG Board of Directors and to appoint its members. Thus, the Staff Appraisal Report and
the President's Report were not issued until October 31, 1985, and the project was finally presented
to the Bank's Board on November 26, 1985. At this time the Credit was increased from SDR 5
million in the original proposal to SDR 5.5 million due exchange rate movements between the US
dollar and the FCFA. (See Part III, Table 2. "Project Timetable.")



- 3 -
1.8          Length of implementation. At the time of appraisal, implementation of the project
was foreseen to be four years and the project was substantially carried out on schedule. However,
it was decided to undertake an institutional audit under the project that would become the basis for
restructuring CESAG.1 For this reason, the closing of the IDA Credit was extended for 16 months.
The first extension was for one year, from June 30, 1990, to June 30, 1991; and a second extension
of four months, until October 31, 1991, was subsequently approved in order to allow for the
completion of the institutional audit. (See Part III, Table 4, "Implementation Schedule.")
1.9          Technical assistance. Arrangements for technical assistance for the development of
training programs, management of the project, and the provision of some faculty and other specialists
in various disciplines, were carried out by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) under a
contract with CESAG financed by the Credit. The results of this effort were mixed. The recruitment
and timing of experts was seriously affected by administrative delays. Recruitment of faculty was
seriously curtailed under the project. Of all the fields of study, only the accounting/auditing
department benefitted from serious consideration. Other more important fields which constitute the
essence of an MBA program, such as marketing, production management, and behavioral theory,
were ignored. Hence, the essence of the technical assistance consisted of the program director and
project administrator. Once recruited, these experts were tightly controlled by the Director General.
In other contexts this would have been an advantage and an inducement to perform at a high
professional level. In this case, however, the tight controls had the effect of constraining the full use
of the technical assistance staff's expertise, resulting in poor use of their talent and limiting the
transfer of know-how to CESAG staff. ILO did not intervene to alter the course of events and was
unable to obtain quality visiting professors, while IDA's attempts to intervene were largely ineffective.
Hence, these experts made only a limited contribution to the institution building objectives of the
project.
1.10         Fellowship program. The fellowship program was primarily intended to upgrade the
academic qualifications of full-time faculty. Unfortunately, many of the fellowships were given to
administrative staff, nonpermanent staff, or insufficiently qualified candidates. Some staff were sent
overseas without meeting the admission requirements of the host universities while others were sent
months in advance of being accepted. Moreover, the Director General undertook expensive training
missions and at times took administrative support staff with him at the expense of the fellowship
program. In all of these activities, ILO acceded to the Director General's preferences even though
these actions were clearly in violation of the contract agreement. Following several such instances
and repeated warnings against sucd abuse, IDA eventually stopped disbursements under this
component.
1.11         Training programs. The results of the institutional audit carried out at the end of the
project indicate that the training programs have not met most of the stated project goals. Most of
these programs were found by the audit to be overly theoretical. Whereas CESAG was to develop
a behavioral approach to learning, the actual approach remains very academic. Disciplines such as
accounting and finance take up a large proportion of the training to the detriment of disciplines
dealing with management per se. Very few courses have been modified to address present African
management training needs, and teaching continues to rely heavily on the traditional lecture method.
'Daniel Bas, Mohamed Isli, and Françoise Rey. Audit général et réorientation stratégique du
CESAG. Geneva: International Labour Organisation, 1991.



- 4 -
The production of teaching materials adapted for the African context has been very limited. In
addition to these shortcomings, CESAG has never carried out a comprehensive marketing program
to offer its services to the public and private sectors. As a result, it has attracted primarily those
students from the public sector who have their tuition paid by various government agencies, and has
attracted relatively few students from the private sector.
1.12        Recurrent costs and financial management. At project appraisal, the recurrent costs
of CESAG were estimated to average US$210,000 per year for the four years of the project.
Experience showed however, that these estimates were extremely low. Actual recurrent costs
averaged US$2.7 million per year. This amount, however, is considerably above that which would
have been necessary to operate the school efficiently and successfully. The experts who conducted
the internal audit estimated annual operating costs at about US$600,000 annually. Among the
reasons for the high recurrent costs during the project period were substantial amounts spent for
miscellaneous expenses, and high payroll costs. (The administrative staff to faculty ratio is roughly
6:1.) In addition, the financial assistance from CEAO was irregular and steadily reduced over the
project period. At the time of project closing, CEAO was in arrears by CFAF 283 million,
aggravating CESAG's already weak financial situation. (See Part III, Table 6, "CEAO Contributions,"
and Table 7, "Project Cost and Financing.")
1.13        Despite CESAG's position as a center of financial management training, the institution
has demonstrated extremely poor management of its own financial affairs. In some cases, expenses
were not properly accounted for, equipment was procured at far above competitive prices, funds were
disbursed for frivolous items, and at times procurement procedures were intentionally ignored. In
addition, CESAG bas shown little commitment to carrying out the audit process in a timely and
efficient manner. The first audit was submitted to IDA over 18 months late; subsequent audits were
also late. The last audit submitted -- for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989 -- was due on
June 30, 1990, but was received on December 6, 1990. (See Part II, Table 15, "Schedule of Audit
Reports.") The audits did not address many of the issues noted above, although they did make
substantial recommendations to improve accounting practices. These recommendations, however,
have not been implemented to date.
E.    Project Results
1.14        Phvsical content of the project. The project included financing for the construction
of a 120 person multipurpose lecture hall, the adaptation of classrooms to accommodate computer
training programs, and the provision of lodging for 60 students. In addition, the project proposed to
finance US$140,000 for the purchase of teaching equipment to complement the equipment provided
to ESGE under the IDA-financed Third Education Project (Cr. 908-SE). The major difference
compared with appraisal projections involved the increasing to 200 persons the capacity of the
multipurpose lecture hall. The civil works were completed with little or no delay. Although there
were cost overruns in civil works, these were compensated by a favorable SDR-US dollar exchange
rate during project implementation and the cancellation of the fellowship program; thus final project
costs did not exceed original appraisal estimates. (See Part III, Table 9, "Allocation of Loan Pro-
ceeds," and Table 5, "CESAG Costs." For a breakdown by source of financing, see Part III, Table
7, "CESAG Costs and Sources of Financing.")The construction on the whole was a success and certain
facilities can even be considered luxurious. CESAG now has the necessary modern facilities to
undertake its future training responsibilities.



- 5 -
1.15         Technical assistance. A total of 171 person-months of specialist services was foreseen
in the project, with later modifications in the technical assistance program bringing the total to 194
person-months by the end of the project. The increase in the number of technical assistance person-
months was due to the extension of the contracts for two technical assistance staff in the Project
Implementation Unit. Of the 103 person-months scheduled for the first year of the ILO contract in
1987, only 37 person-months were provided, although there were other technical assistance activities
ongoing financed by other donors. (See Part III, Table 10, "Specialist Services.")
1.16         Staff development program. Under the CESAG-ILO contract, the project provided
for eight fellowships totaling 216 months. As noted in paragraph 1.10 above, this program experi-
enced serious management problems. During the first year, only two of the eight fellowships were
initiated, while fellowship funds were diverted to miscellaneous or ad hoc overseas training activities
outside the original objectives of the project and without prior agreement by IDA. Following failed
efforts by IDA to correct this situation, this component was canceled. (See Part III, Table 11,
"Fellowships," and Table 5, "Project Costs," Item e, "Fellowships.")
1.17         Training programs. The primary objective of creating CESAG was to provide quality
management training to the public and private sectors in the region. It was felt that a regional
approach to training would provide opportunities for a mutual understanding of the diverse business
conditions found in the CEAO member countries and at the same time would be a cost-effective way
to deliver training services at this level. The proposed training was to be practical and well-adapted
to the African environment. As mentioned earlier, however, the programs have, in practice, tended
to be overly theoretical with limited exposure of the students to those management techniques that
will help them in the workplace. While the shorter-term programs have tended to be more relevant,
they too have failed to fully meet the practical criteria originally envisioned under the project. These
continuing problems of program relevance and quality can, in part, be traced to problems in the
appropriate selection and use of quality technical assistance and inattention to marketing research,
coupled with persistent management problems. (For details on academic program implementation,
refer to Part III, Tables 12a and 12b.)
1.18         In-service training programs. The project originally envisioned that CESAG would
conduct five to ten seminars each year for 25-35 participants. During the four year period 1987-1991,
CESAG conducted or was host to 43 seminars, totalling 637 participants. The number of participants
per seminar was less than anticipated, thus increasing unit cost and reducing revenue. This low
participation rate can be attributed mainly to the lack of an aggressive marketing campaign which
could have attracted greater interest from the business community. In addition, the subject matter
presented in these seminars was, at times, on topics of little relevance to CESAG's primary field of
management. In some cases, CESAG merely provided a venue for other institutions and agencies
to conduct their own seminars. Thus, although the seminars organized by CESAG can be considered
modestly successful, it does not appear that they were always well matched with the needs of the
business community nor were they sizeable enough to provide the institution with a substantial source
of revenue. (For additional data on these seminars, refer to Part III, Table 12a.)
1.19         Consulting and research. Although CESAG had a mandate to develop management
consulting services for the private and public sectors, very little was accomplished in this area. At
project appraisal it was anticipated that 25-40% of revenue would come from consulting activities.
In fact, only about 10% of revenue has come from these activities. In part this is because the faculty
had very little experience in consulting, and in part because very little marketing of consulting services



- 6 -
was carried out. (See also Part III, Table 7, box on "CESAG's Self-generated Revenues," and Table
13, "Consulting Activities.") CESAG's mission was also to serve as a center for management research
adapted to the African environment. During the course of the project, a limited amount of research
was conducted; much of this, however, lacked relevance and addressed primarily public sector issues.
Furthermore, the research that has been carried out has been underutilized given the very limited
marketing of the results.
1.20         School administration. There are six levels of decision-making that impact on
CESAG's operations. These levels are not focussed upon good administration of an academic institu-
tion. Many of the administrative procedures and financial controls emanate from CEAO and require
approval by the Board of Directors for actions that should normally be taken at CESAG. Neverthe-
less, with the appropriate management skills and commitment, CESAG could have assumed sufficient
authority to be considerably more efficient than it has been. As a new regional management school,
CESAG needed leadership that could be responsive to both its external clients (managers,
administrators, and the general business community in the region) and its internal clients (the
administration, faculty, and support staff). Instead, CESAG's management has been unable to go
beyond daily crisis management and has sacrificed the critical functions of strategic planning and
human resource development that are so essential to good management.  Because of this
management style, IDA supervision missions were continually confronted with an administration that
could not resolve major problems in accounting, procurement, and personnel that could have been
alleviated, if not avoided. These problems persist today.
1.21         Project implementation. Responsibility for project implementation was assigned to
CESAG's Director General, assisted by a project coordinator and a technical assistance expert provid-
ed through ILO. The project coordinator was responsible for the technical aspects of contract
administration, the procurement of goods and services, and civil works financed under the project.
In all of these activities, he reported directly to the Director General. Although the Project
Implementation Unit was established as a distinct entity for the duration of the project, it was in
reality an extension of the Director General's office. The fact that ILO was the contractor led to the
implicit assumption that it could behave differently from any other contractor when, in fact, it had
signed an agreement with CESAG. With the benefit of hindsight, choosing ILO as a contractor was
not a substitute for IDA approving individual technical assistance contracts.
F.    Lessons Learned
1.22         The experience gained during this project permits certain lessons to be drawn which
are relevant to subsequent projects dealing with regional institutions such as CESAG.
1.23         Regional projects. At the time of project identification, IDA was concerned to
encourage regional institutions on the grounds that economies of scale could only be realized through
this approach. In the case of CESAG, in 1980, the proposed regional project was justified on the
basis of the educational nature of the project, the fact that the bulk of CEAO membership was
eligible for IDA financing, the perceived demand for better-trained managers, and the small amount
of investment required. Further justifications included the difficulty national institutions were having
in financing top-quality experts from abroad to upgrade the quality of instruction, and the desirability
of bringing managers together from different countries in the region. However, the problems
associated with operating a regional institutions were inadequately assessed in the project's design.



- 7 -
As a result, many of the benefits originally expected from transforming the existing Senegalese school
into a regional institution did not materialize. Crucial to the creation of a successful regional
institution is the development of a governance structure balancing operational autonomy by the
institutional administration with oversight by the governing board in such a manner as to ensure
accountability and identification of emerging problems at an early stage.
1.24        By the time of project appraisal several major concerns had been raised by individual
members of CEAO and IDA concerning the practicality of proceeding with the proposed project.
These concerns included: (a) reservations on the part of the Government of Senegal as to why it
should give up a national management school that was already established and operating; (b) the
ability of CEAO to provide the right kind of support, both financial and administrative, to CESAG;
(c) whether the autonomy granted to CESAG would be respected; (d) the managerial competence
of the Director General selected to lead CESAG; and (e) whether the demand that was perceived
to exist would in fact materialize. Thus, although there were no alternative options put forward,
there was sufficient evidence to indicate that the CEAO-CESAG arrangement was faced with
potential problems which, coupled with poor management, could prevent achievement of the project's
objectives. In hindsight, the risks to project success and sustainability turned out to be even greater
than assessed at appraisal, and the hope that technical assistance could overcome these risks proved
ill-founded.
1.25        Given this assessment of conditions at the time of appraisal and the fact that many
of the concerns of the appraisal team did eventually materialize during project implementation, it
appears obvious that greater attention and perhaps greater restraint should have been exercised by
IDA before agreeing to finance this project. By succumbing to the attractive idea of a regional
management school and disregarding the danger signals, all parties were lulled into a false sense of
accomplishment which was not fully revealed until the end of the project. For a considerable period
of time, the successful execution of civil works and the procurement of modern teaching equipment
hid the fact that administratively and academically the school was not becoming a center of
excellence. Drawing from the above experience, one must conclude that considerations such as
economies of scale and the bringing together of managers from different countries should not be
permitted to cloud practical analysis of what is likely to work and what is not. While both national
and regional training institutions face problems that prevent them from achieving their objectives,
some of these problems are even more difficult to resolve in a regional institution. In the case of
CESAG, one may question whether or not it would have been more advantageous to have retained
ESGE, an established entity with a known reputation, under Senegalese sponsorship and encouraged
the development of a regional marketing plan that would have permitted it to pursue the same
academic objectives as those assigned to CESAG. Under such a strategy, much of the politics,
bureaucratic bungling, and excessive CEAO intervention that prevented CESAG from moving
forward may have been avoided. The most recent illustration of this persistent problem is the
difficulty of securing a final decision from CEAO to implement the institutional restructuring plan
which has already been approved by the various CESAG governing bodies.
1.26        Management. One of the essential ingredients to the success of any institution is the
quality and commitment of its key managers. With regard to CESAG as an institution, and in terms
of project implementation, the impact of poor management has been felt in all aspects. Although
the evaluation of a manager candidate is in itself a difficult exercise, in this case, IDA's evaluation
and initial rejection of a politically appointed candidate was professionally correct. Despite the
candidate's adequate academic credentials, the IDA appraisal team felt strongly that he was not the



most suitable candidate for the task and made every effort to ensure a better choice. These efforts
failed, and in the end IDA acquiesced in order to complete project processing. The resulting
problems created by mismanagement show in hindsight that, given the appraisal team's strong
convictions on this matter, the project should not have moved ahead until a candidate deemed
acceptable by ail parties was found. By the time the first Director General left office, many bad
administrative patterns had been established, and it does not appear that his successor has absorbed
the lessons of his predecessor's tenure.
1.27         Organizational learning. As noted above, the impact of poor leadership made it
difficult for CESAG to develop an institutional structure that would permit it to function no matter
which individuals held which positions. As a result, after more than six years of existence, the
operation of CESAG remains almost totally dependent upon the management style of its Director
General. CESAG continues to operate without an appropriate accounting system, experience delays
in submitting annual audit reports, and suffer from poor financial management and internal
communication. Moreover, the school still lacks a sensible faculty development and marketing
program and still suffers from excessive CEAO oversight. Under these conditions, it is difficult to
find evidence of institutional growth or project sustainability that could justify the amount of money
and human effort that has been expended to date. It appears that this aspect of institutional
development was inadequately addressed during the course of the project as CESAG, ILO, and IDA
focussed on the crises of the day. In hindsight, it could be assumed that had there been a detailed
plan to develop and strengthen the systems and safeguards necessary to the efficient and effective
operation of an institution such as CESAG, that the results would have been more favorable.
1.28         Ownership. The issue of ownership of development projects is recognized as a factor
in ensuring commitment of the participants to project objectives. While the sense of ownership is
often difficuit to achieve in country-based lending operations, it appears to have been even more
difficult to achieve in this project because of its regional nature. It has taken several decades for
many African countries to achieve a sense of national identity from which they could develop a
feeling of belonging and loyalty to the institutions in which they work. In the case of CESAG, the
diversity of staff, faculty, and student backgrounds has constrained the development of a common
interest in CESAG's future. Thus, in the absence of good leadership and a strategy to create this
common interest, CESAG has yet to acquire the kind of internal support and loyalty that is common
in successful training institutions.
1.29         Supervision. Despite the fact that IDA was originally concerned about the potential
risks involved in the appointment of CESAG's Director General, IDA did not supervise the project
in a consistent manner. Supervision problems included: (a) excessive rotation of IDA staff;
(b) abbreviated supervision missions; and (c) an inadequate rating system. The first supervision
mission was carried out by the same task manager who had conducted the project appraisal and
negotiations. For the remaining six years of the project, four other task managers were responsible
for the project for periods of one year, four months, three years, and twenty months, respectively.
Given the time required for new task managers to become acquainted with the project and the
individuals involved, there were occasions when the quality of supervision suffered due to the task
manager's lack of experience with the various implementation issues. In addition, the timing and
duration of supervision missions were for the most part dictated by other responsibilities of the task
managers. This was due in part to the small size of the project versus many other, larger lending
operations in the region, as well as to the fact that many of the project management problems did
not become apparent until the second half of the project as controversy within the accounting



department became known and audit reporting deadlines were not being met. Supervision during
the first half of the project was also influenced by the successful implementation of the civil works
component which gave the appearance of progress while, in fact, obscuring emerging management
issues.
1.30        Finally, it must be noted that for much of the project's life, IDA's supervision rating
system had only three categories, providing little leeway for qualitative assessment of the issues. (See
Part III, Tables 14(a), "Staff Input," and 14(b), "Mission Data.") Thus, while mission aide-memoires
and various communications signaled many of the problems noted above, these conditions alone did
not constitute sufficiently poor performance to justify overall poor performance ratings for the
project. Although in hindsight it would have perhaps been appropriate to rate project performance
lower because of management problems and thus to focus attention on problems requiring action,
IDA was aware through other forms of communication about the extent of these problems. In the
final analysis, while it is evident that project supervision could have been more consistent, more
frequent, and more intensive, it is at the same time doubtful whether IDA would have been able to
change the institution's management culture given the politics and bureaucratic lethargy inherent in
regional organizations with functional and regulatory modes such as those of CEAO.






- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1638-SE)
PART Il. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
2.1          This report on execution of the CESAG Project (IDA Credit 1638-SE) and Project
RAF 86-01, given from the perspective of CESAG management, reviews the impact of the project
on the institution's development, the relationships among the various parties involved in its
implementation, and the lessons it affords for the future.
A.    Project Impact on CESAG's DeveloRment
2.2         IDA Credit 1638-SE had an important impact on the development of CESAG by,
inter alia: (i) establishing CESAG by transforming and enlarging the former Ecole supérieure de
gestion des entreprises (ESGE); (ii) constructing the facilities required to house this type of high-level
management training institution; (iii) providing top-quality equipment for the school; and
(iv) defraying the costs of short- and long-term technical assistance experts.
2.3          On the whole, the principal objectives of the project were achieved. However, given
the resources invested, the results obtained would have been more satisfactory had certain instances
of dysfunction among some of the parties involved in project management been avoided --
particularly, technical assistance experts and CESAG permanent staff (directors, faculty members,
administrators).
B.    Relationships Among Parties to the Prolect
2.4          Relations between IDA and CESAG were generally good as far as overall financing
of the Credit and the realization of activities planned under the Credit were concerned. The experts
assigned by ILO to assist with particular activities were at times cavalier in their interpretation of IDA
rules on strictness and transparency in project administration (authorization of expenditures, and
approval and payment procedures) because the former Director General did not intervene.
2.5          We deplore the attitude of IDA's task manager as concerns the utilization of
undisbursed Credit proceeds. Although CESAG had proposed that fellowships be made available for
faculty development purposes and that additional urgently needed equipment be procured, action was
taken only on its proposals regarding specialist services and studies, which it did not consider to be
priority matters. Thus, we believe that what occurred was that friends were relied on to place
CESAG in a difficult position: the presence of ILO specialists for nearly four years was glossed over
2Part II was received before Part I was sent to the borrower. No comments were received from
the borrower subsequently.



- 12 -
so that the blame for poor project management performance could be laid squarely on the Director
General -- although it remains to be verified, in light of his actual financial possibilities, whether this
blame is warranted.
2.6          Furthermore, CESAG was not involved in choosing the consultants who were to assist
in preparing the restructuring plan. As a result, the team selected by ILO did not include any African
nationals fully acquainted with the problems encountered by training institutions in Sub-Saharan
Africa and with the particular features of the West African environment.
2.7         In other words, certain difficulties were encountered with ILO as executing agency.
They began with the choice of a Program Director who lacked the required qualifications and
experience. The terms of reference for this position stipulated that the appointee was to assist and
advise the director general in setting up CESAG's structures and in accomplishing its objectives. As
an integral member of a team of international experts and CESAG faculty, he was to coordinate the
institution's educational, consultancy and research activities.
2.8          The record which the first program director left behind him was disappointing,
considering the resources at his disposal. He failed to set up any type of structure through which
CESAG's educational or administrative activities could be managed. He never helped develop new
teaching methods or led any consulting or research efforts. What he did produce was a flood of
memos and speculative notes which now lie neglected in drawers. It was only after his departure that
CESAG  succeeded in:  (i) setting up an academic recordkeeping and monitoring system;
(ii) reorganizing training programs so that students could spend more time in the field in the
afternoons; (iii) obtaining recognition and equivalency arrangements from CAMES (Conseil Africain
et Malgache pour l'enseignement supérieur) for diplomas awarded by CESAG; and (iv) taking steps
to upgrade administration of the educational side of the institution. After the departure of the first
program director, the dissensions he had provoked between ILO experts and permanent faculty
members grew worse, ceasing only after these experts, too, had left the scene.
C.    Lessons to be Drawn
2.9         Numerous lessons were learned from the cooperation between IDA and CESAG. The
project was absolutely necessary for CESAG's development as an institution. In the future, all possible
steps should be taken to guarantee that the best results are obtained, and in this regard the project
execution formula selected will be of crucial importance.
2.10         While there were no problems with ILO itself as executing agency, it must be
recognized that the choice of experts and the duration of their appointments can create problems.
Conflicts arose between the permanent CESAG faculty and certain experts, who took on certain
functions not included in their terms of reference, thereby setting up a veritable "state within the state"
which prospers while the institution itself is confronted with problems. For this reason, it is advisable
to avoid giving long-term appointments to experts, who, for career reasons, may engage in actions
prejudicial to the institution. Technical assistance should be used only to resolve specific problems,
and then under carefully formulated terms of reference. Specialists assigned to CESAG should be
appointed for only relatively short periods.



- 13 -
2.11         The shortcomings observed in project management were the fault of CESAG also. The
first Director General delegated management entirely to the ILO experts, resulting in the institution's
being unable to control any management aspects and to make up for damage done. As formulated,
the project allocated far too much for foreign technical assistance (over 50% of the budget), when
Africa possesses capabilities of its own which could have been utilized. In addition, the former
Director failed to monitor the implementation of the project with the necessary degree of strictness.
2.12         Nevertheless, it is CESAG's view that the project produced results that were positive
overall, and that the experience gained will make it possible to better manage any future project.
CESAG wishes to preserve the special links that have been forged with IDA and ILO.






PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                      .                Year of
Title                   Purpose               Approval      Status    Comments
Credit 908-SEN       The project made the fol-  May 1979         Closed    The achievements
Third Education      lowing provisions for the                   December  under the man-
Project              several sub-sectors:                        31, 1986  agement training
a) Primary education and                               component (ESG-
educational planning and                               E/CESAG) have so
research;                                              far been quite
b)Technical education;                                 impressive in
c)Vocational Training;                                 terms of the
d) Agricultural educati-                               amount of train-
on;                                                    ing and its rel-
e) Administration;                                     evance to needs,
f) Management training:                                its close rela-
construction, furniture,                               tionships with
equipment, experts and                                 the business
fellowships required for                               world, and the
establishing the Higher                                institutional
School of Business Man-                                strengthening
agement (ESGE).                                        achieved.



- 16 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date            Date              Date
Item                 Planned          Revised           Actual
Identification Mission                                -            05-06-80
Preparation Mission                                   -            09-20-81
Project Brief                _                        -            11-23-81
Appraisal Mission                  04-82              -            04-22-82
Negotiations a/                    11-82           03-84           03-27-84
Board Approval b/                  02-83           11-84           11-26-85
Signature                          04-84           01-86           01-07-86
Credit Effectiveness               04-84           02-86           04-22-86
Closing Date                     06-30-90         06-30-91         10-31-91
Completion Date                  10-31-91         08-31-91         02-28-92
a/    Negotiations were held in Dakar.
b/    Delay between Negotiations and Board Approval due to extensive discussions
between CEAO and the Bank regarding the selection of candidate for the
post of Director General.



Table 3(a): Credit Disbursements
.Culmulaikte Estimated and Actual Plsu           iene                   ;t
FY86   FY87  FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92
Appraisal Estimate                        0.4        2.2        4.2        5.2        5.5       0.0        0.0
Actual a/                                 0.0        1.7        5.3        4.8        6.2       6.4        7.1
Actual as % of Estimate                    0%    78%   126%    92%   113%    -                             -
a/ FY89 figure lower than FY88: the Bank requested reimbursement
for erroneously disbursed payment to ILO.
Note: Date of Final Disbursement: October 1991
Difference in total disbursement due to changes in exchange rates.
Table 3(b): Disbursement Schedule
w,  . ......       .44wM 40W                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~Cumulative Disbursements
FYsi            111              0.150        0.000         0.150        0.000            0%                                                             Tlime Lino
IV              0.250         0.000        0.400         0.000           0%
Estimated (USS M)                        Actual (US$ M)
FY87             1               0.300        0.685         0.700        0.585           84%                                   8                                                           8      i
Il             0.400         0.746         1.100        1.331          121%                                                                                                      _
111 0.450                     0.087        1.550         1.417          91%
IV              0.650         0.304        2.200         1.721          78%
6 té                                                        S
FY88             1               0.800        0.247         3.000        1.968           66%
Il             0.500         2.601         3.500        4.66           131%
fi1             0.400         0.482        3.900         5.051         130%
V               0.300         0.202        4.200         5.253         126%                                   4                                                            4
FY89             1    ai         0.300       -1.421         4.500        3.831           85%
Il             0.250         0.486         4.750        4.318           91%
Ili             0.250         0.022        5.000        4.340           87%
IV              0.200         0.417        6.200         4.767          91%                                    2 -                                                         2
FYOO             1               0.100        0.262         5.300        5.019           f5%
Il             0.100         0.330         5.400        6.349           99%
Ili             0.050         0.276        5.450         6.626         103%                                                                                               o '
V               0.050         0.568        5.500         6.222         113%                                     1 23412341234 123412341234123
1 88    i  87   i  88   i  89   i  90   i  91   1 921
FY91             1                            0.000                      6.222                                                                             FYs
Il                           0.194                      6.418F
111                           0.014                      6.430
IV                            0.000                      6.430                                                               -    Estimated      +  Actual
FY92             1                            0.257                      6.688                                                           FY89 1St 0: figure lower than previous
Il                           0.121                      6.809                                                           a: the Bank sought reimbursement of
Ili    bi                     0.266                      7.064                                                          prematuroly dibbursed payment to ILO.
al The Bnk requesled relmbureem.nt for premalurely disbureed payment to ILO (T.).
b! Last disbursement. expected this quarter.



Table 4: Implementation Schedule/Calendrier d'execution
Cagr/aegor lent98    198$                                  19718                          99       . 19                991
t  2  3$ 411 1  21 3  4             2431   4              4 2   3  ;4   1  2   .:4  1  2I  3  4  i  2  3  4
Civil Works/Genie Civil
Planned/Prevu
Actual/Reel ai                            _             E      _M_         __
Equipment & Furniturel
Equip. & Mobiliter
Planned/Prevu
Actual/Reel_                                                    _____                 ______
Specialist Services/___
Assistance technique
Planned/Prevu
Actual/Reel                                                              M             M___ __ __       _       _      __
Fellowships/Bourses bl
Plan ned P revu
a/ Major civil works were finished in June 1988. Further work was done in 1990 to enlarge the auditorium.
bI This category was incorporated in the Technical Assistance (Specialist Services Category).



Table 5: CESAG Total Costs fir FCFA millions end US$ millions)
-   -   -. APPRAISAL ESTIMATES aA                                              L        b                          DIFFERENCE
-   -::   ,;- l:-,:  :- ;- :- :k -::-::':-                    - :-  ;          - :: '' -:                                              -
I                                                       ___     _   _    _  __   I_ _                       _ _  _
Civil Work lTravaux Genie Civil      1      288.1    0 59      390.1   0.79       678.2    1 30  I 904.9   2099                        904.9   2.99 1   -226.7    -1.61
Furniture/Mobilier                   I       22.8   0.05        42.4   0.08        65.0   0.13       53.1   0.18       3.5  0.011       66.6   0.19 1       8.4    .-0.0
Teaching Equip./Materiel podagogique   1                        85.8   0.18         85.8   0.18 I                      1.6  0.005        1.6   0.01 I      84.2      0.17
Prolessdonad FeerJHonoraires         i       12.0   0.02        22.5   0.05        34.5   0.07 I   20.1   0.07         7.0  0.023       27.1   0.09 1       7.4    -0.02
Specialist Services (Technical Assistance)/ I
Assistance Technique                I                        1116.4   2.28       1116.4   2.28       0.0   0.00     881.3  2.909    881.3   2.91  1    235.1    -0.63
Feltowships/Bourses                                            202.9   0.41       202.9   0.41 1                                                     |    202.9      0.41
Incremental Recurrent Coutsl di      I
Depenses renouvel. additionnelles   1      312.8   0.84        97.8    0.2       410.6   0.84 1 5013.4  16.55         0.0  0.000   5013.4  10.55 1 -4602.8   -15.71
TOTAL BASE COSTI                     r     635.5   1.30       1957.9   3.98      2593.4   6.29 1 5991.5  19 77    893.3  2.948   6884.9  22.72 I -4291.5   -17.43
COUT DE BASE TOTAL                                                                                                              . n=-    ====    .===== =  *=  c=    =
Contingencies/Provisions pour        I
- Physicalaleas dexecution          1       32.3   0.07        54.1   0.11         86.4   0.18 1
- Puicerhausse des prix             1      134.4   0.27       380.7   0.78        515.1   1.05
I        _                 -       _                       I
|     166.7   0.34       434.8   0.89        601.5   1.23 1
TOTAL PROJECT COST/COUT TOTAL  I           802.2   1.64      2392.7   4.88      3194.9   6.52 1 5991.5  19.77    893.3   2.95   6884.9  22.72 1 -4291.5   -17.43
I   ,===      w=       ======   "__S   ,===M====      =       ===   ====_a  .====a =55=5   _=,,, ,=5= 5         ,=== 5
ai Appraisal exchange rale was US$1=FCFA 490.
c Source: CESAG (DAF).                                                                             100
ci Using average project exchange rate of US$1=FCFA 303.                                                :    -           :      :
di Actual includes all operating coste financed by CEAO. the bulk of which                          10
was not included in SAR estimates (read para. 1.12>.
el TECHNt AL:A          W S       i      w    f      ----  - T         -:                                     ::::-::-::-:.--
:1                                                                                               1  - 1             - ---   [    .                        by cstlegory
Specialids Services/Experts             1.264.579                43- -   E.tI..t.d X...c.u..
Short-term consultants/Consultants       410,343                 14 01
Local Staft/Personnel local              180.405                  6\
Travel Exponses/Frais de mission         221,859                  8                                                                             L          3 -c,ll t,.  ,.
Fellowships/Bourses                      230.655                  80                          o. o I   ;P...l                  *    *|1°wh  ,1l1;t. 5; .A
Equipment/Equipement                      95 213                  30*t
MAiscellaneous/Divers                     170.876                 6oo 0.0                             \                   A
AgencyFee/Fraisd'agence                  334.611                 120                                t cW 2. FR 3. EO 4: PF 5: TA e; FL  : RC
TOfAL -                               2,908,641                100                       Esrlmatbd t38  0.13  0L8O  (LOI 2.28  0.41 0.84
Souice ILO                                                                                AOtu&l   2.99  0.1  0.01 0.09   2.91   o   18.66
CESAG's Costs (US$ M)



Table 6: CEAO ContributionslSubvention de la CEAO (in FCFA Millionsien millions de FCFA)
A..i    40> ':  Wwx  Niu0~~~~..... ..
TOTAL PLANNED CONTRIBUTION FROM CEAO:                                                                     500.0 a/      1.02
VOTED CONTRIBUTION/                         577.2      359.6     497.0     505.5     600.0      350.0   2,889.3         9.54
BUDGET ADOPTE
AMOUiNT PROVIDED/ See Note                  577.2      359.6     495.6     434.2     389.6      410.0   2,666.2         8.80
MONTANT VERSE Voir Note
AMOUNT IN ARREARSI                            0.0        0.0       1.4      71.3     210.4                283.1         0.93
SUBVENTION A RECEVOIR                                 -----     -----      -----     -----     -----      -----       -----
TOTAL                                       577.2      359.6     497.0     505.5      600.0     410.0   2,949.3         9.73
a/ At appralsal exchange rate of US$1 - FCFA 490.
bi At projeot average exchange rate of USS1 - FCFA 303.
o
Note: The first 3 years of the project, contributions were provided In one lump sum, In January,                                        C
however, In subsequent years contributions were distribuled In the following manner:
1989                     1990                 1991
Januart         1.30 Jan'ay .    ;60.0 January    .   35.0
February       54.1 February             February        30.0
March .        54.1 March       - 30.0 March             30.0
April          54.1 April           30.0 April           30.0
May:f: ;::fif'e.-:;;;: ::30.0        5.0 May             34.0
30.0    ay          30.0 June            30.0
June:-  0:0 0y-:t:j .0:y  030.0   June  . :: : 3.4   JUly  30.0
July            30.0                30.0 August          30.0
August      :  30.0 July            30.0                 10.0
September     .30.0 August          30.0 September       12.9
Octoberu       30.0 Seplember       30.0             :30.0
November        0.0 October         30.0 October         30.0
December :     60.0 November.       30.0 November        18.0
:;   0000':': ;t  . ::  . 0.50  l'':18.2  30.0
December        3.0 December        30.0
Source: CESAG.                                                  .           30.0 :  :__: :___::: _:



Table 7: Allocation of Loan Proceeds and Disbursements in SDRs
k ~~~~~~~~Oigii=a                       Rpyî;  a  =9i,  Av=tua1  Undslnxrsew Dl C oA tt >  
1. _.... .. _.._. . _ .. __..._ _...Civil Worksc/Trav. Ge.nie Civil hi  1,380,000    2,180,000    2,305.054  (125,054)  (125,054)
2. Furniture & Equipment/ c/
Mobilier & Materiel                  310,000      510,000      794,359     (284,359)                  (284,359)
3. Consulting Services (ILO)/
Services d'Experts (BlIT)           2,280,000    2,280,000    2,137,933     142,067        192,200      (50,133)
4. Professional Fees/Honoraires         70,000       70,000       51,015       18,985                     18,985
5. Fellowships/Bourses d/              410,000      410,000           0       410,000                    410,000
6. Unallocated/Non affecte            1,000,000      50,000           0        50,000                     50,000 
Initial Deposit/Depot initial         50,000
FUND/FONDS (Categories 1-5)                                       (2,973)       2,973
TOTALS              SDRs;           5,500.000    5,500,000    5,285,388      214,612       192,200   --19,439
ai A last payment is due to ILO for T.A. in the amount of US$255,622 @ 1SDR = US$1.33.
b/ Total Civil Works costs were SDR 3,033,856. Tbe project funded SDR 2,305,054.
The remainder (SDR 728,082) was funded by the unspent credit balance of Cr. 908-SE, ESG component.
c/ Of wbich US$140,000 (or FCA 68.6 M @ IUSS=490FCFA) was earmarked for teaching equipment.
d/ Included in Consulting Services as the component was managId by ILO.
Note: A surplus of funds due to favorable exchange rates and a reallocation of funds between categories
allowed for overruns in Categories 1,2 and 3 to be covered.



- 22 -
Table 8: Evolution of Exchange Rate
.   .....   ...... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *'.'., ~ .
.-'". ..'.'.''''''""  "'  '  ' 
Y,EAR1AN ,'"' ''' F'' I                                   OOMES/g ~
Appraisal/              490         1.00    Rates applied in SAR. Taux utilise dans le
Evaluation                                  rapport d'evaluation.
During Project/Projet
1986            343          1.19
1987            301          1.33
1988            298          1.32
1989             319         1.28
1990            282          1.36
1991            272          1.31
AveragefMoyenne         303         1.30    Average rate over the life of the project.
Moyenne du taux de change pour la duree du projet.
* Source: Annual exchange rate - Central Bank, Dakar.



Table 9:   lalids Se rices        '                          S                 ......
MONÎIiS  DIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .
= x p i A ~~~~~~ Aatl  Pl; an> Pla aD Acua rpvised 
Program Direclort                                                                                Objectives partially achieved. During project execution
Directeur des Programmes            1/87-4/89  10187-10t91     33       30       44      14  b/ a decision was taken tocreate a 'CESAG' homologue position.
TEACHING STAFF
Expert in Accounting
Expert en comptabilite              3187-8189  2188-10189      12       18       20       2  bl Objectives achieved.
Marketing                           4t87-3/88       -          45       12        0     -12      Provided by ad hoc conwultancy (7 weeks).
Expert ln production managemenU
Expert en getIon de la production   4/87-3t88      -           24       12       0      -12      Provided by ad hoc consultancies (about 2 months).
Expert in Personnel ManagemenU
Expert en gestion du personnel          -          -           24        0        0       0      It was decided that this specdalty was not needed.
Auditor/Expert-comptable                -          -            4        0        0       0      Provided by ad hoc consuitancies (for a total of 7 weoks).
Behavior/Comportement               1187-4188      -            0       15        0     -15       Not provided.
MIS/Informatique                    1187-4188   4t87-7/88       0       16       16       0      Objectives only partially achieved. CESAG had to complete work.
OTHIERS
Administration & Fin. ManagementU                                                                 Position not planned by projecl. but was created to administer
Administration, Gestion fin.        1187-12t89  1t87-10/91      0       36       58      22  bl civil works and project funds in place oi Project unit.
Other Consultant/Consultation       1/87-12t87  1187-12t87    40.2      12       22       10  bl Expert for the development of CESAGCs consulting capacities.
Soe Tdtal                                                  182.2     151      160       9                                        No. of    No. of
c/ Ad Hoc Consultancles         missions  months
Ad Hoc ConsultanciestConsultants ad h  cl                       0       20       34      14
__________   1*2~~~~......  1l 2             nstitutlonal Developmenl             29      21.9
Development 0d Trainlng Programso     3       0.9
a/ ILO/CESAG Agreement of December 6. 1986.                                                       Marketing  - -                        6       1.8
bl Due to extension of projecl closing date, contracts were extended accordingly.                Strategy/Economy -             -       4       1.3
Human ReéosMCeo                       1       0.2
Research Methodology                  2       1L1
Information Sjstems  -                2       0.7
Finandlal Management & Accountin      8       2.4
Financial Audits   -                  5       1.6
Operational Audits              -     5       1.
_                                            :ôtàîu  ~  :*:.~+~....



Table 10: Fellowshios/Bourses
S~~ocIatty/S9.cIaiUe.      Niveau....  ....  ....éu                                               ................ne  beefkai.
Finances/Finances                   PHD          USA      USAID             5 months    1985/91   Teaching staf f/ Prof.
Accounting/Comptabilite             PHD          USA      USAID             4 years     1990194   Teaching staffl/ Prof.
Information Systems/                DEA          France   Project          15 months    1987/89   Teaching staff/ Prof.
Systemes d'information
ManagemenUGestion et Comportement   DEA          France   Cr. 1638-SEN   t 15 months    1987/89   Teaching staff/ Prof.
Computing/ilnformatique             DTS          France   UNDP             24 months    1986/88   Former Director/Ancien Directeur
Human Resources Management/         Training/    France   UNDP             15 months    1986/88   CESAG Manager/
Gestion des ressources humanes     Perfectionn.                                                  Cadre superieur
Management/Management               TRG/Perfect  USA      USAID            10 months    1988/89   Teaching staff/ Prof.
Communications/Communications       TRG/Pertect  France   Cr. 1638-SEN  '/ 7 months    1988/89   CESAG Manager/Cadre Sup.
Institute Marketing/                TRG/Perfect  USA      Cr. 1638-SEN   / 6 months    1988/89   CESAG Manager/Cadre
Marketing des Institutions
Training Seminars
Technical English                                              I       I       I          I      Admin. & Teaching staff
Integrated Micro Computer Processing System                    I       I     One          I      Admin. & Teaching staff
Audit/Teaching Experience                                Cr. 1638-SEN  '/    to        1988/91   Teaching staff
Research Methodology                                           I       I    three         I      Teaching staff
Arthur Andersen Professional Seminars                          I       I   months         I      Teaching staff
International Track of the Artificial Intelligence             I       I       i          I      Teaching staff
/ IDA Credit 1638-SEN (CESAG ProJect).



Table 1 1(a): TIalning P,og,ani%        -               ;-- --         ;       ;      O t4              -P ,,-       ---                                                         ---O
P.og,am.e.s d. Fo.maton        .           -                FEESI  $EMINMW. 6,TUDMNTS,   OFYtIK-    ,  NO NON-CEAQ QOIITF#ESI,  ,I -,
-  -    ,, ,,,, , FAIs DE    NO,ttM     NOMBR t3 ,-         CO,  ,    tTP  E ,YS CEAO         PAYS ItO9ilO             -            ,O- ;-               o-  E 
EA     ,   LE  ,T         CO 4i ,E        XE - --ttJ,-
DSCE                            05-U         tt mnlhlrno    t,200,t»0                      35
87-a9                                                    ,31
88-90                                                      33
89-9t                       1,0,00                         24
90-92                                                      29
91-93                                                      22
SubQt 05CtE                     .        ,         -            tE4                                 0   19   14   20    '    1le,                       2          1 1         4     : 2         3     31I 
DStS                            89-91        18 mnthlmrnol   1,tto000                       20
90-92                                                       14
91-93                                                      21
SublotaIDSGS                                        -          -  -                       66        6     2         ,7           6 I         2        -4 1   --4              -- ;.-2                    t13S
DEPL.O&E DOAUÉIT                88-89        14 mnthhrnob   2,000,000                       24
89-90                                                       il
90-91                                                       13
91-92                                                       13
SubbltaAUDfT F   -      -                                                                t                t          - 1   i   2    I              t               t         i            -2  - -       d   i
PFU                             87-88        10 mnll/mob   1.700.000
P8-89                                                      J1
89-00                                                       18
90-91                                                       il
01-92                                                       13
Subbttalt5                                                                                                                 2    t5   _    _    _    _    _         3   _    _                           c/
tPIE-EvENIN            4 ^       ^8748       10 4mthi/mol    1,700.000                      1
88-89                                                        7                                                                                                                                V
90-91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 8                                                                
___                             87-88        4 rmohllomol   1.250,000
84-89                                                       19
8U-90                                                      24
90-91                                                       28
91-92                                                       10
Subtotat PFM                                                                              67        3    7            7    2   ES      7                           36                      7    9
A) SIJB-TOTAL TRANING PAOGRUS (Excludlng CGE)                                              478       1     38 28   43   24    F I 1            2    ô   10       I   70     f    4    a   14   lB0
AS % OF SUB-TOIAL<ExchudigCGE)                                                                     l,    8         K __     6    b    27    O      I          O, 16    O    I              3    3
CGE - EVENINO PRboGRAM  Ni   8488            430 HMA          860.00                        28
87-89                                                       24
84-90                                                       36
89-91                                                       33
90-91                                                       27
Sub<otal COE                                                                             147                                         147
9lER-ENTITEPtISES SEUMNAFS 87-8"             15-90 HIRS                        1S          147     DSGE Dlpiopm  Superleur de Gestion des Enueprlses
88-89                                          10          14 1    DSOS Diptome Supeileur de Geslon des Soyvkeo de Sanle                             TotUS Studonl hi
Sublo             ,             -                                           26           26      DPOE D'AUDIT: D4plome d'Audlhllrnatnatioolet DConot                              m55E.s0 , AIJCoT         a30l
<TRA-ENTEPUSES SEUINAFS U1-U                 16-90 mAS                         a            90     COE: C.îmttkaî de GesUan des Entseprlies - en coule du eok                             of whldl women;      46
U-89                                           5           172     PIFU: Proglamme Itnernallonal de Fowmallon en Mnagemeni                                               cr:  16%
89-90                                          7            s7     PIFG: Proganmmeinr e nanIonal de FomatIon  e la G0eelon
Subbldta                                                                    18           349     PFM: Poogramma de Foumallon, en Management
.PMJ8TOT>L~~~~~~~~~~4~~~/INAM                           4a  ~~~~~:BeU        Ai Bécue»$*italafian evenlng program.tIl osaseumed krat                          Also m Pie ChlarTable 12(be.
t;) Lectule DV                  86-91                                                    1,100       dt eludentu aie Iroef Senegal. 95% ol hlem corne rcom                           Number ot Students by counuy
Mt    QT T s,Lî     E) 9p       -- Il> 84.     -9~                                                 local prk -pivaIe entleprlses.                                                 on the nexi page>
Sorice. CESAO & 0L.                                                                                B/ Lectures (comnputil lrainlig, uaining ol tainers, tIc-).
Ci blno. nol avaitable.



- 26 -
Table 1 1(b): Number of Students by country (excludes CGE eveninq program)
MTA         MLI
(Cut *ilo«: 00 oontr<es)               24243
NIG~~~~~~~~v
71           7-5
SEN
18
OTHERS
21
Table 12: Consultina Actîvities/Activites de consultation
1986                     b/                        bl        16,245,û26     47,362           34.41%
1987                     b/                        b!        22,528,957     74,847           15.07°k
1988                     b/                        b/         8,647,144     29,017            4.87°kS
1989                     b/                        b/        23,843,274     74,744            8.52°k,
1990   Total 1990, of wich:                           456   28,396,427     100,697            9.24%
Management/small-medium-size business          174
Marketing                                   :  75
Economy & Management in Healttt Sector     : 69
Project Management                      :       50;
Others                                        . 88
1991   Total 1991,8o whch:                            436   40,762,850     149,863           13.93
Managemenusmall-medium-size business           192
Economy & Management in Health Sector           54
Human Resources Management                      30
Managements         d  :                       19
Management Information Systems                  14
Financial Management                            12
Marketing                                       4
Others                                        111
Subtotal 1990 & 1991                          892
PROJECTTOTAL                                                140,423,678    476,530           11.20%
a/ Using respective annual exchange rate.
b/ Detail not available.



- 27 -
Table 13 (a): Staff InOut bv Stace On Staff Weeks)
FYS-I.                                                                         ..... FY      -  P  -  f    9    f
Pre-appraisal   0.5    7.9                                                                         9.4
Appraisal               8.2   3.6   6.2                                                           18;0
Negotiations                         3.3   5.3   1.9                                             10.5
Supervision                                       10.7  13.0  12.5   6.6   7.5   7.2             57.5
PCR                                                                                         8.0 °  .0
Other(LOP/PAD)          1.9   4.0   1.0   0.6   3.1                                               18
Totai            0.5  1a.0   7.;  10.5   5.9  15.7  13.0  12;5   6.6   7.5   7.2   8.   1130
ai Rasised Plan.
Table 13 (b): Mission Data
IDENTIFICATION         05/80         1       E                                  05/09t80
PREPARATION             9/81         4   A, C, E, L           5.6              09-28-81
APPRAISAL              04/82         4   A, E, C, L           7.2              05-18-82
NEGOTIATIONS ai        03/84         3    E, A, L             2.4              03-30-84
SUPERVISION    1    12/85             1       E                                12-23-85
2    3/86           1       TC               0.8             05-23-86
3    4/86           1       A                  1             04-24-86
4    12/86          1       TC               0.6              12-20-86        2   2   2   2
5    2/87           2    TC, TS              1.6              03-11-87        -   -   -   -
&04-13114/15-87        2   2   2   2
2   1   2   2 b/
6    6/88           2     TC, C                2      06-24 & 07-18-88        2   2   2   2
7    10/88          1      TS                0.6              11-30-88       2   2   2   2
2   2   2   2 c/
8    11/89          2     TS, C              1.4                             -   -   -   -
8    6/90           1       E                                06-22-90        -   -   -   -
2   2   2   2 d/
9    11/90          1       E
2   2   2   2.1B
COMPLETION            2/91           2    TS, AA                4              02-28-92
a/ Negotiations were held in Dakar.      */ Specialty:                 *' Performance Ratings:
b/ From revised Form 590 of 10/87        A - ARCHITECT                 F - Financial
c/ From revised Form 590 of 06/89       AA - ADMIN. ASSISTANT          M - Management
dl From revised Form 590 of 08/90        C - CONSULTANT                D - Impact on Development
e! From revised Form 590 of 08/91        E - ECONOMIST                 G - General Performance
L - LAWYER                    Performance Evaluation:
TC - TRAINING COORDINATOR  1 - problem-free or
TS - TRAINING SPECIALIST        minor problems
2 - moderate problems
3 - major problems



- 28 -
Table 14: Schedule of Audit Reports/
Calendrier des rapports d'Audit
*X}gÉg0W2:S::::, ACTUA
- -j -            a- - -{<Bi -a                                                                 -  -  -g -*  -   -
1986                     06-30-87         10-3-88    +16 months
1987                     06-30-88        10-08-88    + 4 months
1988                     06-30-89        12-22-89    + 6 months
1989                     06-30-90        12-06-90    + 6 months
1990                     06-30-91            a/       + 12 months
1991                     04-30-92            a/       + 2 months
a/ Not available.



Covenant Status          M = met                   DCA:   Development Credit                  Clausc: R = Realized                               Country:       Senegal
N =not ma                         Agreement                                  NR = not realized                         Project:   Cr. 1638-SE
P   pending              PA:    Project Agreement                            PR = partially rcalizcd                   Date:          7/14188
Table 15: Compliance with Credit/Loan Agrecinent Covenants
Major Covenants
Section No. of   Covcnant                                                              Status    Comments                           Action Takcn or Required
CreditVLoan     Clausc
Agreement
3.01 (b)        Senegal will transfcr owncrship of ESGE facilities lo CESAG            M/R      Signed on November 12, 1983         Nonc
(DCA)
3.01 (c)        Senegal will make availablk to CESAG the services of the Education     M/R      Minimal need for services           Replaced by technical assistance
(DCA)           Project Unit as and when required
2.06 (a)        CESAG will preparc and review with IDA detailed teaching programs      M/R      Programs reviewed by Bank mission   Programs reviewed in July 1991.
(PA)            prior to June 30, 1987                                                          in December 1986. Past lime
programs reviewed by 5/88 mission
2.06 (b)        CESAG will prepare an annual review and evaluation of its programs and    M/R                                       Programs revicwed through
(PA)            exchange vicws with IDA                                                                                             extension of closing dates
6.01 (c)        CEAO will pay the firat year's operling expenses of CESAG in advance   M/R      Budget 1986: 625 million CFA
(DCA)
3.04 (a)        CEAO will provide the nocessary recurrent financing for operation of   P/PR     Budget decrease annual and          DAP had major problems in
(PA)            CESAG                                                                           inconsistent disbursement           planning and controlling budgets
2.02 (b)        A special account in CPAP will bc cstablishcd in a local bank          M/R      Bicis Dakar
(DCA)
3.05 (a)        CHSAG wil maintain records and accounts of its operations, resources and   N/NR    Ceitificd financial statement not  Tliis covenant lied to audits
(PA)            expenditures and will furnish IDA witlh certifGed copies of ils financial       provided for PY86 or FY87
stalements cach fiscal ycar
3.05 (b)        Project accounts will bc audited and audit report will bc submitted for IDA    N  Quality of accounts werr cxtrcnely    CESAG and government of
(PA)            revicw within six months of close of cach fiscal ycar.                          poor.                                Senegal advised suspension of
FY86 audit 18 months overdue        disbursement if PY86 and FY87
FY87 audit 6 months overdue         audits not submitted.
PY88 audit not submitted
FY89 audit not submitted
FY90 audit not submitted
2.09 (d)        CESAG will prepare a complrtion rcport wilhin six months of project    P        Work on PCR at CESAG began          Pollow-up
(PA)            closing date                                                                    Fcbruary 1992



