Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqpwt Ne. P-4176-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
0F TE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF USt5.5 MILLION
TO
TEE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A . vs               j
(CESAG)PROJECT
October 31, 1985
Tli do_umn hus a reusictui iWd1  mi =y be md Iy recipimts .uy ln the perfodme of
dlefr .daI dalles. Ils  ea   uy mo& whmlbe dIsdmed wltht W«od Bmk auItoz_on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA (Communauté Financiaire Africaine) franc is f ixed with respect to
the French franc (FF1 = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar.
In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$1.00        =    CFAF 490
CFAF 1 million =    USS2,041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEAO      West  African  Economic  Community  (Communauté  Economique  de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
CESAG     Regional Management School for the CEAO (Centre Africain d'Etudes
Supérieures en Gestion)
ESGE      Business  Management   School   (Ecole  Supérieure  de  Gestion
d'Entreprises)
FAC       French Aid Agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération)
FCD       CE&A's  Community  Development  Fund  (Fonds  Communautaire  de
Développement)
FOSIDEC   CEAO's Loan Guarantee Fund (Fonds de Solidarité d'Intervention
pour le Développement Communautaire)
IPGP      Institute   of   Productivity   and   Management   (Institut   de
Productivité et de Gestion Provisionnelle)
TCR       Regional Cooperation Tax (Taxe de Coopération Régionale)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations Unies
Pour le Dévelopment)
USAID     United States Agency for International Development (L'Agence des
Etats-Unis pour le Développement International)
Fiscal Year
Senegal: July 1 - June 30
CEAO: January 1 - December 31



- iii-             FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
CREDIT AuD PROJECT SUN"ARY
Borrover:           Goverument of the Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:        Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion
Credit Amount:      SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
On-lending Terme:   Government vould onlend the Credit proceeds to CESAG on
standard IDA terms.
Prolect
Description:        The proposed project vould help establish a regional
institution for train±ng and upgrading high- and
middle-level managerial staff of private and parapublic
sector enterprises in the six CEAO member coumtries
(Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger. anc
Senegal) and of other neighboring Uest African
couatries. This regional institution. the Regional
Management School for CEAn (Centre d'Etudes Africain
Supérieures en Gestion, CESÂG), vould be located in
Dakar, and vould absorb the prograus nov being
conducted at the Senegalese management tralning achool
(Ecole Supérieure de Gestion d'Entreprise, ESGE)
established in 1979 under IDA's Third Education Project
(Credit 908-SE). Training African managers and
promoting regional cooperation are both long standing
priorities for Bank Group lending vhich vould be
supported by the proposed project, building on the
Senegalese school's considerable achievements.
Facilities at the Senegalese school vould be expanded
under the proposed project and made available to CESAG.
The principal functions of CESAG vould be to: (a)
establish broadly based graduate-level programa to
train managerial personnel in private and parapublic
enterprises; (b) organize short upgrading programa in
specific subjects for managers; (c) serve as a resource
center for other institutions in CEAO member countries
vhich offer management training programs, by setting up
appropriate courses for teaching staff and providing
assistance in developing training materials; (d) serve
as a research center for development of management
systems adapted to the African environnent; and (e)
provide consulting services in the planning and
ïmplementation of organization and management systema.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance of
their offica dues. Its contcots may not otheri be dsclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- iv -
Estimatet. Project Costa:
Cnet of taxas  and duties)
Local     Foreign       Total
-1US$ million equivalent-
Civil Vorks                        0.59        0.79         1.38
Furniture                          0.05        0.08         0.13
Equipuent                           ...        0.18         0.18
Professional Fees                  0.02        0.05         0.07
Specia.lit Services                 ...        2.28         2.28
Fellowships                         ...        0.41         0.41
Incremental Recurrent Costa        0.64        0.20         0.84
TOTAL BASE COST                1.30        3.99        5.29
Contingencies - Physical           0.07        0.11         0.18
- Price             0.27         0.78        1.05
0.34        0.89        1.23
TOTAL PBOJECT COST             1.64        4.88        6.52
Financiug Plan:
Local     Foreign       Total
-Us$ million equivalent-
IDA                                0.86        4.64         5.50
CEA      -                         0.78        0.24         1.02  a/
TOTAL                          1.64        4.88        6.52
Esti=ated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
_  -6       FY87       FY88        FY89       FY90
- - US$ million
Annual             0.4          1.8        2.0         1.0        0.3
Cumulative         0.4          2.2        4.2        5.2         5.5
Estimated Project
Completion Date: December 31, 1989
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable
a/  Representing 100% of incremental recurrent costs over the life of the
project (four years).



v 
Benefits
and Risks:          The proposed project would increase the supply of
h±gh-level managerial staff for private and parapublic
sector enterprises in CEAO member countries. In the
longer term, the project would contribute to the
replacement of expatriate managerial staff by African
personnel, and to the introduction of business
organization and mn-agement models adapted to specific
needs of the local environment; this would have the
effect of reducing costs, increasing productivity, and
enhancing the competitiveness of African enterprises.
The main risk of the project relates to the ability
of CEAO to function as a financially sound entity and.
the implications that negative events might have on
the effective continuation of CESAG as a CEAO entity. A
second risk is the possibility that OESAG teaching
programs, as often happens in management and
adwinistration schools, may become too theoretical and
divorced from the reality with which African managers
must deal. Regarding the first risk, in the event the
CEAO vould not be in a position to continue to support
CESAG, management of the school would be returned to
Senegal and the school would continue to function as a
Senegalese entity. The second risk is mitigated by the
technical assistance for development and implementation
of the teaching program built in the project, as vell
as close supervision by IDA.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4977-SE
Nap: IBRD 16667R
.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOHHENDATIONS 0F TEE PRESIDENT
TO TEE EMECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPGBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A REGIONAL MANAGEKEUT SCROOL PROJECT
1.        I subuit the folloving report and recoumendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republie of Senegal to help
finance a proposed Regional Management School Project. Additional
f-inancing for the project vould be provided by the West African Economic
Coummuity (CEAO), lu the total amount of US$1.02 million equivalent. The
IDA credit vourld be passed on to the Regional Management School by the
Government on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Economic Structure and Past Developments
2.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts.  The mainstays of the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raislng for
doumestic consumption, and groundaut cultivation for export. The modern
sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over
=ne million lnhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent
port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a amali but
fast-groving tourism industry.  With a population of 6.2 million in
mid-1983, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1983 was estimated at US$440.
3.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as
the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative and political circumstances. In the latter part
of the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to
unfavorable veather and laver export prices resulting from the loss of EEC
special preferences. Over the decade, the Senegalese economy marked time
as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5% per annum, hardly more
than the estimated rate of population growth.
4.        Economic management has become even more difficult since the
1970s as a result of the grovwng unreliability of agricultural production
and its linked effects on domestic incomes and on fiscal and export
revenues. During the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut production vas hit by
sharp climatic fluctuations, and despite higher rates of private and public
investment, average GDP growth did not rise above that of the previous
decade. The same-pattern of sharp year to year fluctuations around a 2.5%
growth trend has continued since 1980. However, the government no longer
has the leeway to cushion these fluctuations through increasing its
borrowing and expenditures.



- 2 -
5.        Fluctuations in physical output are aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, during
1974, the overall terms of trade improved by over 212, due to exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however,
this improvement vas almost entirely viped out the following year by
declines in export prices for both groundnuts and phosphates. Increases in
imported oil and rice prices in the later 1970s brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in national
income of roughly 6Z betveen 1974 and 1982.
6.          This deterioration in terms of trade, along vith two successive
years of drought in 1979 and 1980, plunged the economy into an acute
financial crisis, from which it is nov only slowly recovering.  The onset
of this crisis led the Goverument to launch a five-year economic and
financial recovern program, whose main objectives vere to stabilize the
economy during the first two years and to achieve an economic growth rate
of 4% per annum in the following three years. This program vas supported
by an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent, approved
by the IMF in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) of
US$60 million equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
1.        The recovery program consisted of an economic stabilization plan
(agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of nev producer
incentives, reorientation of the public investuent program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector. The objectives of this program vere
sound but the implementation schedule proved too ambitious. Despite delays
caused by a record lowr 1980181 grounduut crop and by the change of
president in early 1981, the Government did achieve significant progress in
financial arrears reduction, parapublic sector management and introducing
new industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and especially
in the reform of agricultural policies and institutions and in reduction of
the current account and fiscal deficits, the results vere disappointing.
The SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million vas cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        The overlay of acute structuLral and financial problems which
Senegal had suffered for seven years vas compounded in 1983/84 by the
return of severe drought conditions.  These reduced by almost 40% the
volumes of agricultural crop production available both for export
(groundnuts) and for domestic consumption (mainly cereals). The drought,
probably the second most severe since 1972-73, had a negative impact on the
level of economic activity in 1984, on Senegal's balance of payments and.
indirectly, on its public finances. Despite these difficulties, the
current account deficit was reduced in 1984, according to preliminary
estimates.
9.        While there are some encouraging signs of growth in sectors not
directly affected by the drought (e.g. fishing and tourism), prospects for
a sustained recovery in output and employment are still uncertain, not only
because of climatic aberrations, but also as a di:-ect result of the
persistent financial crisis. Although the economy appeared to have
recovered strongly in 1982 and 1983 from the effects of the two preceding



- 3 -
drought-affected years, restoring real per capita income to its 1979 level,
GDP fell by about 4.0% in 1984; it vould have been even lover vithout the
growth in fiBheries, petroleum refining and other export-based industries,
notably fertilizers, for which a 200,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant came on
stream at mid-year.
10.       Over the last two years Senegal has pursued its adjustment
program in close consultation with the IMF, with which credit outstanding
at end-June 1985 vas equivalent to 260% of Senegal's quota. In August
1983, folloving the announcement of measures to eliminate subsidies on
petroleum, rice and other products, an IMF standby vas agreed for 1983/84,
with coumitments to observe strict public employment limits and domestic
credit ceilings. This program, vhich aimed at reducing the current account
deficit by more than three percentage points of GDP and reducing the
overall fiscal deficit from 9 to 4.8% of GDP, vas successfully completed.
A new standby covering an 18-»onth period to June 1986 vas approved by the
IMF Board in January 1985, and performance is judged satisfactory to date
by the IF. It is clear, however, that in future years Senegal's potential
drawings on further IMF resources fill largely be offset by repurchase and
interest obligations due on outstanding IMF credit, requiring an increase
in budgetary assistance from other sources.
il.       A major constraint on the Government's finances and the balance
of payments is the serious and groving burden represented by service of the
external foreign debt. Over the past four years, debt has been rescheduled
four times with the Paris Club, and as well as with the banks, and debt
service is projected to average around US$250 million per year over the
next four years, making necessary a continuation of debt relief for a few
more years until the adjustment program vill have had time to take effect
on the economy.
Producer and Export Incentives
12.       The structural adjustment program addresses the need to improve
Senegal's trade balance by adjusting relative prices in order to encourage
export production and to discourage growth in imports of food, energy and
consumer goods. Since 1981 measures have been introduced to adjust the
tariff structure, to correct for bias in the protection system against
exports of specific products and by internal price adjustments to fully
reflect shifts in internal costs and international markets and currencies.
(Senegal's currency has depreciated 20% in real terms, on an import
trade-veighted basis, since end 1980.) The basic rate of import duties has
been increased to 15% of c.i.f. value and fiscal duties on many products
raised to penal levels. An export premium system introduced in 1981 has
bad a positive impact on export and employuent levels in some of the five
industries to vhich it vas first applied, especially fish processing. An
extension to 20 other product lines, as vell as a change in the payment
system toward a value-added basis, vas introduced in 1983. Between
February 1982 and January 1985 the Government has doubled the retail price
of rice, the main food staple in urban areas, in order to reflect higher
import costs and to provide a measure of protection for domestic rice
production. Cereals are marketed mostly through private channels; the
official floor prices for producer have been raised by about 10% for the



- 4 -
1984/85 season and by around a further 20Z for 1985/86. There has also
been a substantial increase announced in the producer price for groundnuts
for the coming season, in order to maintain comparability with prices
offered on the parallel market.
Investment Program
13.       The outlook for investuent has deteriorated since the
establishment of the structural adjustment program in 1980.  While the
latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to reestablish
macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced program has
become difficult. In the present climate, a careful screening of new
investment projects is particularly needed, together with increased atten-
tion to rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The necessary institutional
reforms for improving the Government's prograiming, budgeting and
monitoring of investment projects are expected to be put into place over
the next year. In view of the difficult public finance situation, the
Goverument's ability to generate public savings for financing its
investment program vill remain very constrained during the next four-year
development plan covering fiscal years 1986-89, and the investment level
itself will be largely determined by the availability of concessional
foreign resources. Some public enterprises, however, should be able to
generate funds for investmuent during this period and the share of private
investment is expected to increase as the financial situation begins to
=mprOve.
Parastatal Sector
14.       Refora of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be
a high priority. Over the last year the Government has taken some
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable or
Inefficient public enterprises. In the agricultural sector, a number of
agencies are being wound up and about 1,500 staff have already been laid
off.  For others, a redefinition of tasks and a reduction in staffing
numbers has been decided. For some of the most important public
enterprises, the Goverament has moved to improve performance by negotiating
multi-year contrats-plans which set out production and financial objectives
for company operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of the
Governuent and enterprise managers. To date, the Governnent has signed
seven contrats-plans, including two for SAEI, and several others are vell
advanced. A comprehensive policy guidelines for parastatal reform is under
preparation.
Long-term Prospects
15.        Senegal's long term economic prospects very much depend on the
success of its recently started medium-term adjustment program for the
period 1985-92. This program seeks to create an improved base for
development both by correcting the unsustainable imbalances on the
government budget and on the external accounts, and by structurally
improving the institutional and incentive environument for economic
activity, implying a general reduction in the degree of government
involvement in the economy. The Government's development strategy continues
to emphasize the promotion and diversification of agricultural and



- 5 -
export-oriented activities. The agricultural program calls for the
development of areas less susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern
Senegal) where rainfed cash crops other than groundnuts can be grovn, and
increased incentives for domestic millet and maize production to replace
imported rice. Agricultural research in being reoriented, with the
objective of lovering the costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques
and better adapting them to local constraints.  Irrigated cereal production
is being developed in the arid northern part of the country along the
Senegal River. Construction has started on the two large dams planned for
the Senegal River by the Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur de la Vallée
du Senegal (OMVS), and the first (Diama) should be completed in 1986. The
Government's new agriculture policy aima to eliminate the present high
level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice production, which
othervise vould severely constrain the pace of new irrigation development.
16.       The US$250 million ICS phosphorie acid/fertilizer project started
commercial operations during 1984, and the combination of export
subsidy/import duty increase and Senegal's attractive investment code
should help to attract other export industries, once the international
economy has improved. Export diversification is necessary to offset the
uncertain prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity
in terms of domestic value-added (fish exports from Senegal have a very
high import component).  Senegal's groundnut oil exports suffer from
increasingly irregular production due to recent drought conditions and from
an increased supply to EEC markets of competing vegetable oils, vhich has
tended to narrov the price premium previously enjoyed by groundnut oil.
17.       The assistance provided to Senegal in support of the Geverument's
1980-85 stabilization program has helped the country survive a period of
extraordinary economic difficulty and to start to address some of its most
difficult problems. Rowever, the overextended public sector, as vell as
heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, continue to
impose serious burdens on public finance and on the current account of the
balance of payments.   The Treasury will not be able for a few years to
absorb additional recurrent cost charges from developient projects and will
continue to need exceptionally high shares of foreign financing for the
investment program and for budgetary assistance on concessional terms.  The
persistence of the financial crisis has already persuaded the couatry's
planners of the need for a reassessment of development strategy and for the
establishment of a new program of action to achieve the necessi:,
structural adjustments.  Such a program vas presented to the Consultative
Group meeting in December 1984 and endorsed by the donors. The Bank aims
to strengthen its support for the Government's efforts to stabilize and
restructure the economy, in coordination vith the IMF and other donors. A
second structural adjustment credit is currently under preparation, in
support of the government's adjustment program, vhich ve hope to present to
the Board during the current fiscal year.
PART II - BAIK GROUP OPERbTIONS IN SENEGAL
1B.       As of June 30, 1985, the Bank Group had approved 57 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$544.6 million, including 32 IDA Credits, 12 Bank



loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two blends
of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Physical
execution of projects is progressing reasonably vell, although some
operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the
Government's continuing difficult public finance situation. Annex Il
contains the Status of World Bank Operations in Senegal.
19.       Until a few years ago, our assistance vas mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years has led to a major shift in our strategy, which
now has the folloving three main objectives:
a)   to pursue an economic policy dialogue vith the government,
supported where appropriate through technical assistance and
policy-based lending operations, aimed at improving economic
management and restoring in the medium-term a sound financial
basis for development efforts;
b)   to promote the long-term development of the country by supporting
vell-prepared investment, rehabilitation and sectoral adjustment
projects within a framevork of appropriate sectoral policies and
institutional reforms; and
c)   to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting
as the focal point for greatly increased aid coordination between
donors and government, at the same time assisting the latter to
strengthen its own planning and aid coordination ability.
20.       In agriculture, operations have aimed at improving the
productivity of traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research. In FY84,the Board approved a cotton/food crop project for the
rainfed regions of Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance which is progressing
well. Exploiting the potential for irrigated rice farming in the Senegal
River Valley along the northern border of the country fors the core of the
Government's development program in agricultural and is described in Part
III of this report.
21.       Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Société Financière Sénégalaise pour le
Développement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development
finance company established with Bank assistance in i974, in which IFC is a
shareholder and for which three lines of credit have been approved. The
Bank has also financed the rail infrastructure component for the ICS
phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex and an engineering credit to promote
development of Senegal's phosphate industry. In response to the effects of
the 1979 oil crisis, the Bank has also financed a petroleum exploration
promotion project, and a study of the possible uses of peat reserves, to
assist the Government in its search for economical new energy resources.
22.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port and airport. But vith the stagnant economy and heavy past



investments, emphasis is nov being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities. To this end, three projects vere
approved during FY84: a Fifth Highway Project addresses the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for road maintenance; the Dakar Container
Port ProJect includes rehabilitation and maintenance of the Port of Dakar;
and the Techulcal Assistance ProJect for Urban Management and
Rehabilitation emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure in support of industrial development.
23.       As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rebhabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the major public utilities. In
telecommunications, preparation in underway on a project vhich vould
restructure and reequip the sector entity. In electric pover, an
engineering credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization, and a
follow-up investment project aimed at rehabilitation and expansion of
generating capacity and at energy conservation vas recently presented to
the Board. Finally, in the urban vater supply and sanitation sector, an
engineering credit, approved in 1979, laid the groundwork for the Eleven
Centers Water Supply and Severage Project which vas approved in March 1985.
24.       While Bank atrategy has supported the emphasis on fiuancing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, ,t also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, vith due consideration to the capacity of
both the Governmnent and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In
education, efforts have been directed at primary education and at techbncal
and vocational training to support act4 uities in the productive sectors,
and in health, efforts have been directed at primary care In the -ural
regions.
25.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic
and financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed
exclusively through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the
late 1970s towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural
adjustment lending. Two operations in support of tuis effort are currently
being implemented: in the parapublic sector, a second parapublic technical
assistance project vas approved ln July 1983 to help consolidate results
already achieved under the first project and to begin rehabilitation of
some key public enterprises through detailed action plans; and a technical
assistance project fJr economic and financial planning vas approved in
August 1980 to help the Ministry of Planning evaluate priority projects and
monitor the investment program and the Finance Ministry to strengthen its
debt management capability. A follow-up Project is being prepared to
consolidate progress made in improved economic management.
26.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investuent program on
high-priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental
recurrent costs, improved donor coordination is nov assuming increased
importance. The Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue vith Senegal in
close coordiration vith the IMF and bilateral and multilateral donors. In
thîs connectLon, the Bank convened a first meeting of the Consultative
Group in December 1984 at vhich agreement vas reached on the policy
measures and assistance levels and aid coordination mechanisms needed to
enable Senegal to overcome its economic and financial difficulties. The
Bank followed-up on this meeting by preparing a structural adjustment



- 8 -
operation as well as by organizing sector meetings of interested donors on
telecommunications and power; further sector meetings are planned during
1985-86 for the vater supply and agriculture sectors. A second CG meeting
is also planned for mid-1986 to consider the Government's nev investment
program.
27.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1980-83 averaged approximately 20Z, of which roughly
two-thirds vas IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding
disbursed debt vas 18% at end-1983 and may approach 20% by 1985. The Bank
Group's share in external debt service is estimated to have risen from 3.7Z
in 1980 to about 7.5Z in 1985.
PART III - CEAO - THE INSTITUTION AND ITS NEMBER COUNTRIES
Economic Features of the Region
28.       Apart from the Ivory Coast whose per capita income of US$710
(1983) is the highest in sub-Saharan Africa 1/, all CEAO member countries
are in the Sahel zone 2/, and their primarily agricultural economies are
hostage to unpredictable rainfall and generally unfavorable climnatic
conditions.  Although they have important common features determined by the
ecological enviroument and a common colonial history, the countries differ
markedly in size, economic potential and performance, as well as in their
political and socio-economic make-up.
29.       Demographic characteristics, on the other hand, are common to
m»st of the countries. Population growth is high (about 2.7Z on average),
as are fertility rates (generally between 6-7%) which have been increasing,
and which show no indication of a downward trend. Moreover, mortality
rates have been declining mainly vith the elimination of major epldemics,
and total population (nov estimated at 35 million) is projected to continue
increasing at an average annual rate of 3% until the turn of the century.
1/ Except for Gabon (US$3,280) which is in the exceptional position of
having a very sall population (646,000) and large oil and other
mineral resources.
2/ Per capita incomes in the other CEAO member states in 1983 vere
estimated as follovs; Burkina (US$180), Mali (US$160), Mauritania
(US$480), Niger (US$240), and Senegal (US$440).



_9_
Development Prospects
30.       Of all of the CEAO countries, only Ivory Coast can fairly be
classified as relatively resource-rich. vith a vell-developed agricultural
sector, based on export crope and vith good potential for crop
diversification. Mauritania and Senegal have good geographic locations and
some mineral vealth (iron ore and phosphates, respectively), but othervise
they share all the problems of the Sahelian zone. Burkina, Mali, and
Niger, are "true" Sahelian countries, and, in many respects, resource-poor.
Given the essentially rural nature of their economies, the narrov export
commodity base, and frequent crop failures, it vill be difficult for these
countries to achieve high grovth rates even vith good economic policies.
Nevertheless, the quality of management, and perhaps more than in any other
Region, the level, appropriate foeus of external aid, and the availability
of trained managers to effectively match that aid to the absorptive
capacity of the economies, vill make the difference between those countries
where GNP growth vill exceed -  albeit marginally -  the growth rate of
population, and those where stagnation or declining incomes vill not even
permit meeting the most basic human needs.
The Role and Functions of CEAO
31.       The West African Economic Community (Communauté Economique de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest - CEAO) vas established in 1973 to promote
development in the member states through economic cooperation. CEAO vas
Intended to replace earlier regional institutions 31 which had essentially
the same customs union objective, but which failed to achieve balanced
development of the member states, largely because there vas no mechanism to
assure pooling and equitable reallocation of resources. CEAO vas expected
to correct this shortcoming, and to pursue the promotion of economic,
technical and industrial cooperation and integration in the member states
through creation of a Common Market, and through measures for
liberalization of trade (particularly in agricultural and industrial
production) vithin an organized preferential trade zone. It is envisaged
that CEAO would pay special attention to the less developed and the poorer
landlocked member states.
32.       CEAO has so far responded effectively to its mandate, and has
grown into an active development-oriented entity. It is currently
promoting several large regional projects (notably institutions for
training in a range of disciplines, including business management, mining
engineering, fishery sciences), and has mobilized bilateral and
international financial (the Kuwait and OPEC Funds, European Economic
Communities, and the African Development Bank) and technical support for
these operations.
3/   Union Douanière entre les Etats de l'Afrique Occidentale (UDAO).
established in 1959. Union Douanière des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest (UDEAO) vas established in 1966.



- 10 -
33.       In order to carry out its mandate, CEAO uses several instruments
of which the principal ones are:
(a)  The Regional Cooperation Tax (Taxe de Coopération Régionale -
TCR) is a preferential tax granted on industrial products
originating in CEAO member countries, which provides an important
incentive for domestic manufacturers. It must be noted, however,
that the share of Ivory Coast in intra-Community industrial trade
has represented almost 80% of the total, while that of the less
developed states (Burkina, Mali, Mauritania, Niger) together
represent only about 5Z.
(b)  The Community Development Fund (Fonds Communautaire de
Développement - FCD) is linked to the TCR system as a
compensatory mechanism. Essentially, since duties on most
products imported by the less industrialized member states
represent the major source of their budgetary revenues,
application of the TCR could mean a substantial loas of
resources.  The FCD therefore allows a transfer of resources from
countries benefiting from the preferential treatment to countries
granting it, thereby assuring a fairly equitable distribution of
the advantages. The dominant economic position of Ivory Coast
and Senegal, however, requires them to contribute mare than 90%
of FCD's annual resources. About two-thirds of FCD's annual
resources are earmarked for compensatory payments under the TCR
system; the remainder is used for development financing purposes,
mostly in the less developed states.
(c)  The Solidarity and Intervention Fund for the Development of the
Community (Fonds de Solidarite d'Intervention pour le
Développement Ccmmunautaire - FOSIDEC) guarantees external
borrowings by member states or state-ouned enterprises (or
private enterprises under certain conditions). FOSIDEC has an
authorized capital of US$27 million equivalent and its guarantee
capacity is 10 tines the paid-in capital which, at the end of
1984, vas US$21 million equivalent. FOSIDEC also finances
feasibility studies for productive projects, and provides
interest rate subsidies. FOSIDEC may also borrov for re-lending
purposes, and may hold participation in development ventures.
34.       CE&O's operating budget is financed according to a sharing
formula among its members, accoraing to vhich Senegal and Ivory Coast
contribute more than two-thirds of the total.  Implementation of all
Community projects being promoted (para 32) would resuilt in sizable
incremental expenditures which would have to be funded from the one-third
of the FCD resources available for Commuity projects. To lessen the
shortfall between budgeted income and expenditure, CE&O is currently
redesigning some planned Community projects to reduce their investment and
recurrent costs. CEAO appears to have weathered the economic crises of the
first half of the 1980s. and should be able to meet its obligations in
respect of Community projects provided that meiber states contribute their
allocated share of FCD funds and there is prudent financial management and
careful design of Community projects.



- il -
35.       The Bank Group has provided CEA0 vith technical assistance for
establishment of FOSIDEC, and to study issues related to industrial sector
policy. More generally, the Bank Group and the donor coumunity at large
recognize the need to support regional institutions 8uch as CEAO, which
represent a consclousness among West African Goveruments of the importance
of pooling their limited resources to meet their common development
challenge. Given this felt need for effective regional institutions, and
in view of CEA0's own record of stability - even vith the frequent changes
in political leadership in individual member states and a certain measure
of conflict among the countries -- prospects are good for the long-term
viability of the institution.
36.       There remains the question of hov long Ivory Coast and Senegal,
as the largest members, vill continue their disproportionately heavy
support to CEAO's operating budget, and particularly to the Community
Development Fund (FCD); but there is at the same time a recognition that
those countries are by far the primary beneficiaries of the CEAO group
market trade. Overall, however, the signals are clear that there is a
solidarity based on mutual interest among CEAD member countries, and their
Heads of State continue to testify to their intention to preserve this
solidarity and strengthen it.
Experience with Past Lending
37.       In CEAD member states (particularly Mali and Senegal) the Bank
Group has provided assistance by supporting management training
institutions through education projects and training components in
non-education projects. In Nali, the Bank Group intended to provide
assistance under the Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI, 1977) for
curriculum development, staff training and provision of equipment and
facilities for the Institute of Productivity and Management (IPGP).
However, construction of educational facilities for the IPGP had to be
deleted from the project following implementation delays and cost overruns.
Funding is now being provided under the economic m-aagement and training
project (Cr. 1307-MLI, 1977). The IPGP has had difficulty recruiting the
specialized staff it needs and is emphasizing new middle level training
because of the small number of students who would qualify for admission to
high-level training programs.
38.       In Senegal, the Bank Group is providing US$3.9 million under the
Third Education Project (Cr. 908-SE) to construct, equip and develop the
prograus of the Business Management School (ESGE).  Project implementation
has gone very vell. The first classes began in October 1981, vith 30
participants. The school has developed a successful program to provide
training in modern management techniques to senior and middle level
Senegalese managers in private and public enterprises. An intensive
admission, screening and interviewing process has been established, and
priority is given to practicing managers. The practical orientation of the
program is strengthened through the use of about 40 practicing managers as
part-time instructors. The ESGE in-service training program is gaining the
confidence of Senegalese enterprises. ESGE has made a considerable effort
to develop a qualified national teaching staff, and the fellowship program
to train both permanent and part-tine teaching staff is being implemented
successfully. The training of African managers and the promotion of



- 12 -
regional cooperation ln West Africa are longstanding priorities for Bank
lending in West Africa. These priorities would be supported by the project
proposed in this report by building on the considerable achievements of
ESGE (para 42).
PART IV - THE NEED FOR MANAGEKENT TRAINING IN WEST AFRICA
Background
39.       In the six CEAO member countries, there are approxlmately 14,000
enterprises employing about 560,000 people, or about 30% of total
employment. However, the performance of these enterprises has often been
disappointing, partly because of an unfavorable economic environment, and
partly because of inefficient organizational and management systems. The
many state enterprises have suffered particularly heavy losses, bave come
to depend increasingly on Governments (through protective regulations or
subsidies), and nov constitute a continuing drain on public resources. The
inefficiencies in management of both private and parapublic enterprises
reflect the scarcity of African managerial and supervisory personnel -
which in itself is linked to the generally low level of human resource
development in West Africa -  and this in turn has led to widespread
employment of highly paid expatriate staff, and the slow development of
management techniques adapted to the local environment.
Training Needs
40.       Of the more than 42,000 senior- and middle-level managers
employed in private and parapublic enterprises in all CE&O countries, more
than 30% are expatriates. The shortages of African personnel are
particularly serious at the senior level, where nearly half of all
positions are filled by expatriates; this dependence has in fact been
lncreasing in absolute terms, totalling about 13,875 in 1980 compared vith
approximately 12,000 in 1977. Growth and replacement needs during the
1980s for managerial personnel in CEAO countries are estimated at about 900
annually for senior staff and about 2,600 for middle-level staff, while the
present capacity of existing training institutions is limited to an annual
output of only about 200 and 900 graduates, respectively. In addition,
retraining and upgrading needs could be as high as 1,300 senior- and 4,900
middle-level managers, compared to the present output capacity of 500 and
803 respectively at these levels. The above figures are only rough
estimates, but they underscore the pressing need for the issue of
management training in the region to be effectively addressed.
Management Training Institutions in CEAO Countries
41.       With the exception of the national civil service training
colleges which offer curricula emphasizing law and public administration,
most of what is considered management training ln West Africa has
traditionally taken place in the universities. Hovever, even this training
has never been given high priority in the curricula, which are generally
theoretical programs linked to economics or social science studies. Some
of the CEAO Governments vere sufficiently dissatisfied with these
university programs and created specialized institutions, normally



- 13 -
in-service training centers for short-term upgrading of middle-level and
support staff. or special two- or four-year post-secondary programs for
teaching commercial subjects and some business management courses; but the
proportion of class time devoted to management *ducation per se has
remained quite limited.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       The proposed project is an extension of a component of the Third
Education Project (Credit 908-SE, US$22 million, Kay 1979), under vhich the
Governnent of Senegal is receiving IDA assistance for construction,
equipping and development of teaching programs for a national graduate
school of business management, ESGE. ESGE started operations in borrowed
quarters and rented space in October 1981. Project implementation for ESGE
has progressed satisfactorily, and physical facilities vere completed and
operational by December 1982. ESGE has made considerable efforts to
develop qualified national teaching staff, and the scholarship program to
train both permanent and part-time teaching staff is being implemented
satisfactorily. ESGE has also performed vell on a variety of consulting
assignments, and has been advising several Senegalese enterprises on issues
related to management, staff training, and labor relations. Effective
teaching programs and in-service programs have been developed to train
senior- and middle-level Senegalese business managers in modern management
techniques, and as these programs have gained the confidence of local
enterprises, a fairly rapid expansion [n enrollment has been taking place:
155-executives from 38 enterprises participated in 12 programs offered
during the first year of ESGE operations. In the second year, 46 seminars
vere run vhich attracted a total of 575 participants.  Since the first
intake in 1981, over 60 students have graduated from the two-year degree
program and they currently hold managerial positions in Senegal.
43.       During the planning stage of ESGE, CEAO vas already considering
the establishment of a regional management school to serve all its member
countries. Heads of State of the CEAO member countries had also decided
that the nem institution vould be located in Dakar, and the Senegalese
Governuent therefore provided assurances under Credit 908-SE that its own
national school, ESGE, would form the nucleus for eventual developuent of a
regional management school. It vas already clear that the CEAO proposal
represented a worthwhile and long-overdue undertaking. Training and career
development for African managers is an issue of crucial importance in all
CEAO countries, and is essential for an effective expatriate replacement
policy and the development of a set of management skills adapted to the
particular circumstances prevailing in the African environment. Hovever,
the efforts of many African countries to promote the careers of their
national managers are thwarted by the inadequate capacity of their training
institutions. While most middle-level training can best be done in a
national school, the number of high-level managers does not justify
creation of a specialized institute in each country. A critical mass is
required, and economies of scale can oaly be realized by regional
cooperation.



- 14 -
44.       In view of IDA's previous involvement in ESCE, and the high
priority attached to supporting efforts for regional cooperation in West
Africa and for the training of managerial personnel, IDA responded
positively to CEAO's request (made in agreement vith the Senegalese
Government) for assistance in converting the Senegalese school into a
regional institution. A pre-appraisal mission visited Dakar in September
1981 to review the educational specifications and plans for physical
facilities, and particularly to discuss with CEAO and Senegal an
appropriate framework for IDA assistance.  All design vork and other
specialized services required during the preparation phase vere financed by
CEAO, and the project vas ready for appraisal in April 1982. Negotiations
vere considerably delayed from original expectations to allow Senegal and
CEAO the time needed to work out legal and financial arrangements governing
the transfer of facilities presently owned by Senegal, and details
regarding operation and management of the regional institution. It was
also considered important for IDA to be satisfied that CEAO's current and
expected financial situation would allov it to effectively support the
large new undertaking. Negotiations vere finally held with the Senegalese
Government and with CEAO in Dakar in March 1984 vith a delegation led by
Mr. Malick Sou, Director of Planning in the Ministry of Cooperation and
Planning for Senegal, and by Mr. Moussa Ngom, Secretary General of the
CEAO. The CESAG vas represented by Kr. Richard Gbayoro, Project Officer,
CEAO. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4977-SE, dated October 29, 1985) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The proposed project vould help CEAO establish a new regional
management training institution, the Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures
en Gestion (CESAG). CESAG's principal functions vould be to: (a)
establish broad-based graduate level programs to train managerial personnel
in private and para-public enterprises; (b) organize short upgrading
programs in specific subjects for senior managers; (c) serve as a resource
center for other institutions in member countries which offer management
training by establishing training programs for teaching staff, and
providing assistance in developing training materials; (d) serve as a
research center for the development of management systems adapted to the
African environment; and (e) provide consulting services in the planning
and implementation of management and organizational systems.
46.       Specifically, the proposed project would provide for:
(a)  Construction, furniture and equipment for teaching and boarding
facilities, by expanding the physical facilities of ESGE and
making them suitable to accommodate the proposed regional
institution;
(b) 15 manyears of specialist services to help develop high-quality
management training programs;
(c)  18 manyears of overseas fellowships to help implement a regional
staff development program for teachQ'ng, consultancy, and
research; and



- 15 -
(d) recurrent finance for operation of CESAG during project
implementation.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       Total project costs (net of taxes and duties from which the
project would be exempt) are estimated at US$6.52 million equivalent,
including foreign coste of about US$4.88 million (about 75Z). Cost
estimates are based on final designe reviewed folloving the appraisal
mission, and construction contracts avarded in Senegal during 1980-83, and
adjusted for price movements between 1983 and May 1985. Cost estimates
include physical contingencies of 10Z for civil vorks, furniture, and
equipment, and price contingencies totalling about 19% of base costs plus
contingencies, applied as follovs: 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987 through
1989.
48.       The proposed project would be financed by (i) an IDA credit of
SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent) to be extended to the
Goverument of Senegal, which would pass on the proceeds to CESAG on
standard IDA terrs (para 56); and (ii) a CE&O contribution of US$1.02
million equivalent. The IDA credit would finance about 95Z of foreigu
exchange costs and about 52% of local costs, representing about 84% of
total project co0ts. The contribution by CEA0 vould finance all recurrent
costs (other than those covered by CESAG's income) during the project
period (1986-1989). The provision by CEAO of its contribution for
recurrent costs during calendar year 1986 (about US$194,000 equivalent)
vould be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Financinz of Recurrent Costs After Proiect Completion
49.       The draft treaty establishing CESAG foresees several sources of
funding, the most important being direct contributions from CEAO member
countries, or from CEA0 itself through FCD funds; grants and subsidies by
foundations and by national and international organizations; and fees and
loans. The recurrent costs resulting from the project upon completion
(June 1990) are estimated at about US$204.000. Assurances vere obtained
during negotiations that CEAO vould provide the necessary recurrent finance
for CESAG's operation. IDA would review CESAG's annual income and
expenditure statements so as to follow-up on any changes in its financia_
situation, including required recurrent cost support from CEAO.
Project Implementation
50.       Program Development.  Following the transition period from ESGE
to CESAG <June 1986 - July 1988, para 55), CESAG would offer a two-year
graduate program designed with a regional perspective, and vhich provides
an intensive study of the economics of the region, its trade and commercial
characteristics, and the managerial and behavioral skills necessary for
senior business managers. CESAC would maintain close contact with the
business community, and would select students and design its traineeships
and teaching programs, to fit the needs of employers. CESAG has agreed
that detailed teaching programs for CESAG vill be prepared and reviewed
with IDA prior to June 30, 1987, and a review and evaluation of the



- 16 -
programs on the basis of the experience gained will be prepared annually
and submitted to IDA.
51.       To ensure the quality of programs offered by CESAG, the project
would finance a total of about 175 manmonths of specialist services for:
coordinating program development work (33 manmonths); developing and
teaching specialized courses in personnel management (24 manmonths);
production management (24 manmonths); marketing (45 manmonths); and
accounting (12 manmonths).  Short-term consultants (40.2 manmonths),
recruited as appropriate, would help develop training materials, and
develop and teach courses in contract management, quantitative techniques,
and computer management. Draft terms of reference for all specialist
services have been reviewed by IDA. CESAG has agreed that specialists
financed under the project vould have qualifications, experience and terms
of reference acceptable to IDA and would be recruited in accordance with
IDA guidelines.
52.       Several donor agencies, including UNDP, FAC, and USAID, have
indicated their interest in providing financing for complementary technical
assistance. CESAG has agreed that it vill consult with IDA prior to making
arrangements for the execution and coordination of any external assistance
programs.
53.       The staff development program vould train teaching staff selected
from CEAO countries, and prepare them for teaching graduate degree
programs.  The principles of the program have been reviewed by IDA and
found acceptable. Criteria for selecting candidates for IDA-financed
fellowships would be developed by the CESAG Management Council and approved
by its Executive Board and IDA; candidates would be expected to serve at
least five years in the positions for which they were trained. Additional
fellowships would be made available through expected assistance from UNDP
and FAC. CESAG vould have about 12 permanent teachers, of whom about half
would iuitially be expatriate specialists. CESAG would make extensive use
of part-time teachers and visiting lecturers, most of whom would be
experienced businessmen.
Organization and Management of CESAC
54.       CESAG would share the principal decision-making bodies of CEAO.
The Conference of the Heads of State adopts CEAO's budget and determines
the amount of member contributions. The Council of Ministers would define
general policies of CESAG, decide on the extraordinary budget, and appoint
the Director. The Executive Board would be composed of 12 members, two
from each member state, and of whom one from each country would represent
the national employers' organization. The Board wvould implement policies
adopted by the Council of Ministers, and would monitor CESAG's programs and
activities. The Education Council would be primarily responsible for the
control and continuous evaluation of education and training, including
examination rules and standards, and report to the Executive Board. The
Director vould be the chief executive officer of CESAG. A Director
acceptable to IDA has been selected. If a new director has to be
appointed, CESAG has agreed that it would consult with IDA on the
qualifications and experience of candidates to ensure that only suitable
candidates are proposed. The Director vould be assisted by the Dean of



- 17 -
Faculty responsible for programming all the school's activities and serving
as liaison with enterprises and employers, and by the Director of Finance
and Administration.
55.       The integration of ESGE and CESAG programs vould be carried out
gradually during the period of June 1986 - July 1988. A detailed plan for
the transition has been prepared by ESGE, CESAG/CEAO and Senegal, and vas
reviewed during negotiations. A first step vould be taken during the
1985/86 academic year by planning for broadening the recruitment base of
present ESGE students to include students from other CEAO member countries
to matriculate in September 1986. During 1986 UNDP-financed personnel
vould become available to start preparing teaching programs and during the
1986/87 academic year, a beginning would be made vith phasing out some ESGE
courses and start new CESAG courses.
Legal Framework
56.       CESAG has been established as an autonomous legal entity.  The
Government of Senegal would transfer to CESAG ownership of the land,
buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the ESGE project such
transfer to take effect upon effectiveness of the Credit. The cond%tions
for onlending the proceeds of the IDA credit by the Goverament of Senegal
to CESAG would be detailed in a Financing Agreement between the Goverument
of Senegal and IDA and an Implementation Agreement between the Government
of Senegal, CESAG and CEAO.  Under these agreements, the drafts of which
are acceptable to IDA, CESAC would honor contractual obligations to
suppliers of goods and services under the ESGE project. CEAO would make
funding available to CESAG to: (a) make payments to Senegal to caver debt
service obligations for all funds borrowed under Credit 908-SE for ESGE,
and the proposed IDA credit; these payments would be guaranteed by FOSIDEC
(para 33 (c)); (b) reimburse Senegal for expenditures made from its own
resources for ESGE civil works; (c) cover project costs to be financed from
local resources, including any overruns; and (d) provide the necessary
recurrent finance for CESAG's operations. Signing and effectiveness of the
above agreements, both vith terms and conditions acceptable to IDA are
conditions of Credit effectiveness. In case of dissolution of CESAG,
Senegal would regain possession of CESAG facilities and use them to train
high- and middle-level managers.
Implementation
57.       Bidding documents for civil works have been completed and tenders
have been invited. Construction of buildings and installation of furniture
and equipment are expected to be completed by July 1987. Provision of
specialist services and fellovships vould continue until December 31, 1989.
58.       The Director of CESAG would have overall responsibility for
project implementation. For the technical aspects of procurement and
contract administration for goods and services ficanced under the project,
technical support would be provided by the Senegalese Education Project
Unit established by the Senegalese Government in the Ministry of Equipment
to implement the three education projects finuanced by IDA. The Project
Unit has been performing this function efficiently. Technical support for
other documents of project implementation, such as selecting and



- 18 -
supervising technical assistance personnel, selecting and supervising
fellovship programs and candidates, and accounting would be provided by the
staff of CESAG with assistance as appropriate from local or foreign
technical assistants. The Director of the Education Project Unit would
assist the Director of CESAG on matters related to building and equipment
specifications. The CEAO Secretariat is making arrangements with ESGE and
the Education Project Unit to help with procedures to assure an orderly
transition on the basis of the agreements reached (para 55).
Procurement
59.       Architectural and engineering services vere obtained through a
selection process among local specialized firms in consultation and
agreement with IDA. Civil works valued at US$1.80 million, and furniture
and equipment valued at US$0.43 million, would be procured following
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Manufacturers of furniture and equipment from CEA0 member countries would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15Z of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports, or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever
is the lover. Items of furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in
packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured folloving CEAO's
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Items valued
below US$15,000 and for which potential suppliers are limited would be
procured by inviting quotations from at least three reliable suppliers
whenever possible; the total ;alue of items procured by these methods would
not exceed US$150,000. For the four to six contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more (totalling about 90Z of the value of all
civil works, furniture and equipment contracts), IDA would review the
bidding documents before contracts are awarded.
Special Account
60.       A Special Account with an initial deposit of US$50,000 vould be
established in a bank in Dakar, to help CESAG prefinance small expenditures
reimbursable under the project, while withdrawal applications are being
consolidated. This account vould be operated under terms and conditions
agreed upon during negotiations.
Disbursements
61.       Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows: 100% of
total expenditures for civil works (US$1.380,000); for professional fees
(US$70,000); for furniture and equipment (US$310,000); for specialist
services (US$2,280,000); for fellowships (US$410,000); and for the initial
deposit in the Special Account (US$50,000). US$1,000,000 would remain
unallocated. All disbursements would be fully documented. CESAG agreed at
negotiations that the project accounts would be established in accordance
with internationally accepted accounting principles and would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptablc to IDA, and the accounts and
audit report would be submitted to IDA for review vithin six months of the
close of each fiscal year.



- 19 -
Evaluation
62.       During negotiations CESAG agresd that it vill submit a project
completion report on the execution of the project, its costs and benefits
and the performance by CESAG and the Association of their respective
obligations to IDA vithin six months of the Closing Date of the IDA credit.
Project Benefits and Riaks
63.       The project vould increase the supply of top-level managerial
staff for private and parapublic sector enterprises in member states of
CEA0. Specifically, CESAG vould play a crucial role ln preparing junior
African professional staff for senior managerial positions, and training
teaching staff for national management training institutions. In the
longer term, the project vould contribute to the replacement of expatriate
managerial staff by African personnel, and to the introduction of business
organization and management models specially adapted to the particular
needs and demands of the African environment; these efforts vould lead to
reduced costa, increased productivity, and enhanced competitiveness of
African enterprises.
64.       The project's main risk is related to the ibility of CEAO to
function as a financially sound entity, and the Impact that events which
might negatively affect the CEA0 would have on the effective continuation
of CESA&G as a CEA0 entity. While the record of regional cooperation in
West Africa is generally positive, the financial soundness of CEA0 depends
to a large extett on the villingness of Senegal, and especially Ivory
Coast, to continue meeting the major share of the Community Development
Fund, and on prudent financial management and cautious design of Community
projects. A second risk is that CESAG teaching programs, as often happens
in management and administration schools, may become too theoretical and
divorced fror the reality with vhich African managers muet deal.  Regarding
the first risk, in the event the CEAO vould not be in a position to
continue to support CESAG, management of the school vould revert to Senegal
and the school would continue to function as a Senegalese entity. The
second risk is mitigated by the technical assistance provided for the
development of suitable CESAG teaching programs. as vell as detailed review
by IDA during supervision missions of their design and implementation.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 31, 1985



- 20 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
T A D L 1C IA
ShIIECAL              - SOCIAL IMUICATS DATA ONmEr
SnECAIL                             lmEmnuue caouPs <.rIoCeD AVERPrES) la
mT                      <MST RECRT ESTIMA   lb
iC.             uoxuao uucoo UIDOLE Ircm
j«OLb      147e1! gsrDE SMA      sMA  S. or SialA      M.  RICA * £ Min EAST
Am <mmn q. M0
TOTAL                             196.2      196.2       196.2
ArRICIITMAL                       49.6       104.5       304.1
CP Pu CapIrA (m)S>                    ..          ..       440.0            1063.1                   1114.9
-in    commune vu c n
<KILOCRANS o0 O1L rEIIvALUn      381.0       360.0      206.0             51.S                     623..9
ZATiCu  Sm VITL sunCs
rocManoaau-EEAaCT (TUOSaS)   3498.0         4415.0     6211.0
UuS POPULATION <n o0 TOTAL)       23.0        30.0       34.4              32.0                     49.0
POPIl&^TtoU pIOjcrOs
POFULTILO  IN TEM  2000 (nu.)                          10.1
STATION1 PO?ULAIOU <ILL                               30.0
POPULATION nENlU                                        1.9
PULATIOn  DElSlm
PER SQ. KM.                      17A        22.5       31.7              65.1                     37.R
PER SQ. UN. £051. LAD            35.1       42.2       55.2             124.1                    470.1
PWOULATION  A  STRIICTE (Z
0-16 ys                        42.7        43.9       44.6              45.6                     41.5
15-64 TRS                       54.2        53.1       52.6              Sl.5                     51.0
65 LIED A2WE                     3.0         2.8        2.8               2.7                      3.3
oturAL                           2.0         2.3        2.4               2.9                      2.R
UIRU                              3.4        5.0        3.7               S.1                      4.I
Cmî BîRTi< RATE (FER sl=)         47.5        46.7       46.1              47.0                     40.0
CUIDE DCA?! RATE (PEm TaOUS)      24.4        21.9       18.5              15.0                     11.5
GOSS  EPRO00CrtO  RATE             3.1         3.1        3.2               3.2                      2.1
FAHILY PLMIIIG
ACCETrOZS. AIIIWAL (THus)         ..
USERS (Z OF NA ED      )          ..         ..         6./               6.4                     21.4
iDU OF Feu PM. PU CAPITA
<1969-71-100)                    125.0        83.0       64.0              82.9                     95.1
PEi CaillA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES ot OE Q SEEIIN)        99.0        93.0       99.0              98.5                    11S.2
PROUIZINS (I;UI  PEX DAT)       67.0        62.0       70.0              SS.4                     77.8
OF WTQI AIDUL AMS PULE          20.0       19.0       19.0 id            16.5                    172
CRILO (AGES 1-4) MATS RATE        45.9        38.1       2A.0              16.6                     12-8
LIPE EXPECT. AT RIRTII <TENS)     39.4        42.4       45.5              52.0                     57.J
IDFANT lM"?. RaT (PIS TLCt0S3    178.5       164.0      140.0             108.8                     96.1
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER I2Po)
TorAL                             ..         ..        42.0 ie           42.4                     67.2
URUN                              ..         ..        77.0 7;           67.5                     93.4
RURAIL                            ..         ..        25.071            35.8                     45.8
ACCESS TO EXnOrA DISFUai
( OrF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..        33.0              28.9                     45.9
URUK                              .          ..       100                57.7                     63.0
RURAL                             *          *-         2.07o            20.7                     28.6
POPIILATIOU PIE PSICI*A        24990.0    16790.0    11780.0/c          11791.7                   4331.0
POP. PER IURSI  PEtSO           3150.0 If  19S00       1390.0 7          2459.8                   1845.0
POP. PEn DSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           140.0      820.0      900.0 Id          981.1                    62t18
DRUAs                          660.0 4    450.0       560.0 r7          368.B                    S450
RUtAaL                         1990.04   1250.0       1280.07;r        4371.9                   2S11.3
ADSISSIONS PE RDSPITAL EC          ..         22.2       29.2 Id           27.2                     Z5.?
MOUSINC
AVEPaàL SIZE Or HOUSEIL
TOTAL                             .          ..
DRUS                     ~~~~~..    7.6/11      .
RURAL                             .          6.0 7.
AVERAGC D. OF PENSOS/m
TOTAL                             1.5 /      ...  
RURAL                             ..         ..
PrciuACE OF OMELLINCS nITs nLia.
TOTAL                             ..         ..          ..               ..
URSIRL-                                         



-21-                                      aI
TArLA a    4                               Page 2 of  7
suENu AL- lcOCL INDIcaoU   DATA no?
WNUAL                              a         gaCb " CiulUmD LUES «L
-                 cui r -           ) ESmE>f
1,.a    ~~»   m                       (m       ICR   ianaç. ttu
c~~ou Da u
*03002  WtMLUauN RTos
PU.  ITOL.                       27.0       38.0       48.0              95.7                     e9tJ
mIm                   36.0        47.0        8.o0            100.0                    103.7
PVlUL                17.0        30.0       38.0              83.2                    75.2
SWCOUDAIII TOTAL                  3.0        9.0       12.0              17.3                     42.0
KmLL                   4.0        13.0       16.0              23.0                    50.9
INHAL                  2.0         5.0        8.0              14.8                    36.8
YOCAMIOIIL (a or SE_ODt)           23.1        9.2       10.4               5.9                     10.0
POHIL-!ERAC a RTO
PIM                              43.0    a  45.0       63.0              41.1                     29.7
SUCODAIT                         34.0       36.0       21.0              25.5                     18.8
PAS        CAISTCSL   poi     5      .?       8sa         ..               20.8                     17.8
zozDIO       SI/O D POP            35.7       60.7       61.3             107A                     173.9
TV                  POP             ..         0.3        0.8              20.8                     51.2
NlERVOU  <"DATL! CGNL
r) C
TNOSA  POPULATION                  5.7        4.S        7.5              18.4                     37.2
CIN    SUAIL  AIIN C/C              ..         ..OJ 0.7                     0.4                      2.4
AMUSR
TOTAL LAUOS      (MO M)<S>       1619.0     1925.0     2509.0
IALE CISR=T                      39.5       39.0       37.9              36.2                     110
AIQDII: (EU>                     84.0 U0.0             76.9 le           54.5                     42.4
lUTS! (PERtMT                     5.0        7.0       10.0 e            185                      27.9
PAE!TCIPATIO lam  (PERCENT
TOTL                             46.3       43.6       40.4              36.8                     26.2
MAIE                             56.3       53.7       50.7              47.                      46.2
FUIAIE                           36.4       33.7       30.6              27.2                      5.8
C mc DOFUIECZ RATIO                 1.0        1.1        1.2               1.3                      1.8
URGES! OF PUIVATE D
IIICa   5S OFIWSIJ               36  1        .          ....
ELMES! 202 0W 62.5  O..   ..2.. ..
LOW= 20S OF IIOIISCIIO            3.2 79     .           .                 ..
liA.                                ..         .820l273160
ESIA    ABSLMPVMZCM
UNSL (IISS CAPXS=
-U.                                                                     590m7                    226.3
MORAL                                                   2. /            275.3                    134.0
ES1DKà RRT PO D=ll
LU. (USS P  CAFU
ilUaI                             ..         ..        194.0 le         545.6                    431.5
10IRU                             .,         ..          ..             201.1                    326.0
-           POP. une nsom
lOVER! INGES JAVEL <E>
PIlm    C I        S
flRAL                             .,         ..         ..                ..                      29.0
NO! AVAnIESu
N O TE
la  Tha flop avruea fer ea  lnator are                         aritt let as   Coarug  Cf ecamtrU
9g ebh imiencoa   dguaida lalnett o                f dta    useon.
lb  Ualans othauLa. mted. "Data for 16r0 ee ta my year lae   199 ad 1961; "Dau for 1970V batea
1969 md 1971; ai data for "Mat lacu  ladta" batauu  1981 am  1983.
(c 1978; Id 1977; la 1980; /f 1963; ia 1962; th 1973; IL 1955; a 1976; hb ropulatfla.
Jal=. lm



- 22-                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of  7
DEFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nr Alboughdidatm ac dime frm ou eniy jdgedtha  mmet authorimwiveand rdinlea iL shouid adibc noled atathey may nut bite itnonlly
cempmrmboua oIiii lm u ot ancdaidsad dlinimieoua id concepu uid by diirmut couiatnies in cclicung the data Mhe daut a  noniddia muil tD
docribe oarder a m gnitudV %iadcte i trdasnd aduaractiriz eaian major ditcnas beitein cotnines.
Tht irefeirnce gpup  re a1) the saune couantry grof' er the mbjat counry mnud (2) a country yup wiLh soewuht bigher average inrome tht, the country
group ofthe subjct counutry (cxoept ror CHigh lncome Oil Exportrsw group where -Middle Incaire Nortb Afm  and Middie Elatis duhen bec traiianmgr
socio-culItl aliniitsm. ln the ufcerence group dat the averags re population wighted arithmetic mans for ech indicmtor and abown oanly When mnjority
of the countries a a group ba data ror dtai indiator. Sinc the coveage oecountruit ameig dut iacctors dpd on dtm avaibulaly oUdau and l not unifonn.
caution muàt bcecierînd ain rrlatingaviraia<onor indicator toanthnr Thse averapsgareonly nuaul in cmprping the walue ofone indicator at timte oaong
tht country aid rtrue cc greups.
AREA <thousand sq.km.l                                          Crai fiS Rate (puerghmsa>-Nuamber   olive birtbs in theyear
Tat-Total surface ara compnsing land area and inland waters:    per thousand of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crak DuroS Rote (per thoamd>--Number of deaths in the year
AgrcsaXralt-Estimate of agrictitural arc? used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. mnarket ana kitchen gardens or to  Crs Reprodacrio Rate--Average number of daughtets a woman
le fallow. 19601. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will beair in ber normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averagesending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS}-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 19/0. and 1913
market prics. calculated by same conversion mnthod as World     Faui<y flaabig -Arcepturs. Amua (shoasd-Aannu I nun-
ank Arios (1981-83 bausisi 1983 datai.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERCY CONSUMPllON  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                 family planning prog am.
consamption of commercial primary encrgy (cai and lignite.      Faudy Plu    t-U s (perceur fa-      e m e)-The per-
petroleumn. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women ofehild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose busbands are practicing any form of contraeeptionL Women
1982 data.                                                     ochild-bearing age are gcneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is mured for orler age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Torai Populaion. M- Yeor (shaads> -As oa JJuly 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
fAdez cfFood »Prdacfi  Per CaPina < 969-71 = U0N-indez of per
iIbs APpaladosr (perceiso:f rai>   Ratio of urban ta total      capira annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; diltengt definitions cf urban amas may affuet con%pai-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among cruntries. 1960. 1MO0. and I983 data.     include primary commodities (cg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
_Polai  Frjecrias    -                                          which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffe and tea are
Popuaiton in year 2000-The projection of population for 2COû.   excladedi; they comprise cereals. root crops, pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on  vegetabls. iruits. nuts. sugacane and sugar bets. iivestock, and
tooul population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  iivestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base yer 1980. these pammneters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-5. 1970. and
eue projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gneralized  1982 data.
assumptions uantil tde population bicame stationary.            Ps CDapIO saI æcfar  (percent eireqâwrrme --Comput-
Sroalonary popsdadioe-ls one in which agi- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity rates have not changed over a long period. whie age-specifi  pur capita per day. Available supphes comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultancously remained at rcplaccment level  tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
<net repruduction ratc= 1). In sach a population. tse birth rate is  cxcludc animal (eed. rseds for use in agriculture. quantities uscd in
constant and equal to the death rate. the agc structure is also  food processing. and losses in distnbution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zeo. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal acdvity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmcntal temperatur  body weigls.
the population in the year 200O. and the rate of dedline of fertility  age and seu distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment level.                                       waste at houschold leveli 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popapiaion Momentun- Is the tendency hor population growtb to   Per Cap'a Sapp cf Prosea (Zrou pgr do-Protein content of
continue beyond the timne that replacement-level fertility has becn  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of feod is defined
achieveu: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abovc. Requirements for all countries establisbed by USDA
urvtty. The momentum of a population in the year  is rmnasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protin. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption thaIt fertility reimairs at repLce-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment ievel from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grms of animal protein as ai
,pi     Dey                                                     average for the morld. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqÀkm.-Mid-ycar population per square kilometer 1100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Lars) of total arca 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Copiu Protes Supp5 y Fr o4 A _alf OU Phrls-Proteit supply
Per sq.km. agriukuroal land-Computed as above for agricultuIral  of food derived from animals and pulse in grams perday: 196145.
Iandonly. 1960. 1970.aand 1982data.                             1970and 1977data.
Fbpaqrà  Age Structre (pertcea4-Cshildren (0-14 yea). work-     Chii (ages 1-4> Death Rate (per thoasd>-Number ofdeaths of
ing agei(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 yean per tiousand children in the same age
of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpulot/onGrou àt. Rase (percent)--roaraf--Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Pop q&Wo Cross  Ros (perceas>-rhJ a-Annuai growth rates         Lfe Expcoarc> ar Msb  (yeas>-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prcvailing patterns of mortality for ail people



-  23 -                                       ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 7
at thc time of of its birlh werm to stay the ane throughoul its lite:  PApsY-reacher Ratio - primarj>. and  enndary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dati.                                      rolled in primary and bceondary lewls divided by numbers of
lusit Moiaiup Rage (par tlhJsmd-Number of infants who die       machesn in the corresponding level.
before reching ont year of agt per thousand live births in a Wiven
year 1960. 1970 and 1903 t                                     CONSUMMTION
Acta  sgfi lWta  (prta  of pope )at-uaLrbu, ad                 Passawar Cars (per tbasa  pJpuiumu-Pasxnger cari com-
rar-Number of people (total urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating lems tIan eight persons excludes ambul-
acceu to  afe water supply (indudes treated surface waten or   anc, boarses and military vehicies.
untmated but uncontaminated water much as thit from protected  Rva  Racairs Ôper t_usadppulaaj-All types of receivers
boreholes. sprting and suitary weils) as p«centages of their reapec-  for radio broadcasts te puerai public per thousand of population:
tiw populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in coutnries and in years when
located not more ttan 200 meters from a bouse may be considered  reistration of radio sets WHS in effect: data for receut years may
as being withi reasonable ascesu of thai house. In rural arcas  not be campamble sace mos ceuntrias abalisbtd liceasing.
reasonableaccess would imply that the housewife or mnembers of the  ntVei  c paradsmdposuntV a          eeiversmg
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVleears <pa rAs--TV  roceivrs rer broadoast
in fetching the fiuilys water needs                            to genral public par thousand population; excludes unlicesed TV
Actas, t. Extrats Disposai (panas efpapulstiamD-ata, ,,d. rveu countries and in yea when rgsration of TV sots was
snd rrai--Numbor of people (total. urban. and rural) servcd by
xtas disposal as percenutages of their rspective populations.  Nespsper Cfcria    . (per dhusa-dpophS4l-Showvs thc aver-
Excrets disposal may incutde the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of daily generâl interest newspaper defined as a
without turmnent. oi hunman ecreta and waste-water by water-   perindical publication devoted pnmarily to recording pueral news.
borne systemas or the use of pit privics and similar installations.  It is considered tO bh -dailr if it appears at kas lour tises a week.
Popdaam per Ppysicaa-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-     Cassa  Mai Attendane per Caa per Year-Based on ihe
tising physicans qualfled tromas mdicai schoolat unive   tykvd  numnber of tickets sold during .he year. including admissions to
Popuid per Nang PWru -Population divided by rinuber of         drive-in cnemas and mobile units.
practcing male and female graduait nurse  assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LOR FORCE
Populo  per Hospel Dsd--romt sran. ai ri-fPotpulation           Tertl Lâahr Force (thamm u-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hos savailable la public sud private. gneralade lz ~  students etc.. covering population or ail ages. Definitions in
hosptia  and rhabliition centers Hospitais are esablishments   vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
peruanently staffed by ai kast one physician. Establishments prov-  iem   (presr'-Feuale labor force as percentage Ai total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospihals.  forcc.
however. include health and madical contera not permanently vtaffed  Ajikarec rpmcaun-Labor lorce in farming. frestry. hunting
by a physacian (but by a nedical assstant nurse. midwife. etc.)  andti slung as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
whicl offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         ldiutrp tptrcet)- -Labor force in mining. consruction. manu-
Admissines r  Hospirat RBd--Total number of admissions to or   facturing and clectricity. water and gas as percentage a total labor
discharges irom hospirals divided by the numbrr of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 asd 1980 data.
;nczpasaoa Rase irer i. aie dae-Pariicipation
:IOUSIISG                                                      or activity rates arc computed as total. manie and female labor rorfe
.éaeae Sie f Q o>sehàol (perss per hasehoWi-ral, rban.         as percentagea of totaL male and ftmait population of ail ages
aidrwal-A householdconsists of a group of indiwidualswhosharc  respectivly: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarras and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  paricipation rates reflecting agt-esx structure of the population, ad
may not bc includcd in tht houschold for statistical purposcs.  long limc treni. A ftow estimates are firom national sources.
Aveane N_mbe, Qf Person per Roes-umsi. arba, snd rai-          Eeoense Depedene;y Ragic-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per mom in all urban. and rural      65 and over. ta the working agt population (those aged 15-64>.
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwdlïapgs oxclude
non-pennanent structures and unoccupiod parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTlON
Pereg of Dw.Ufer   s irt Elcr*k>-ortal. aràsa and urai-        Percatae of Tatal Dispoabi lucmae (batr i cams ad kindi-
Conventional dwellings with dlectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups a households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively         hoik income.
EDUCATiON                                                      POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
Adj.sse Ewoawenr Ratis                                         The following eswimaies are very approximate measures of poaert%
Princr sehool - toral maie and feais-Gross total malc and      levels. and should bc interpreted wath considerable caution.
femaléenrofment of aUi ages at the primary lkvd as percentagcs of  Esiaeed Absobie Peorry lcone leel e i  pUer capfha>-rbaw
respective primnary school-age papulations While manv countries  ami rel-Absolute poverty income Iswel is that income tevel
consider primary school agt bc k 6-11 vears. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
diffeuncs in country pracuces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are redicted in the ratios given. For some countries watiS univesal  Esrared Reluasie Poren; liee Lare (USE par cspita)-an
education. gross enrollinmt may xcetd 100 percent since same   ai rral - Rural relativc poverty incume level as one-third or
pupils are below or above ihe countrys standard primarn-school  average per capita personal income of the countrv. Urban Level is
age.                                                           derived irom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondar;  hoAol - totld nmas ansd femaael-Computed as abovye  living in urban aras.
secondary education requires at eaikm four years of approved pri-  Estami Popintio  Reiw Absonae Serr; Incarne Lavai (per-
mary instruction; provides genuaL vocationaL or teacher training  cenr>_-mabo  and rasai- Ptrcent of population (ur-an and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDy of 3 2 to 17 years of age; correspond-  vwho are -absolute puor7-
once courses are generatly excluded.
Voemeus! Enrullmarn (percent ot sa-ondarri-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Di-islon
tions include techrical. industriaL or other program! which aperate    Economic Analysas and Projections Department
ilndependently or as deparsuents of secondary instiutions.                              June 1985



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
SENE6ALS ECONONIC INDICATORS                            August 90 1995
Populationt 6202 <.Ld-1993, thous)
GNP par capita: 440 US$ 11903>
Amount                       Annual arawth rateo <Y) at constant prices
<nul US$ a            -      -  ---------------------__________________       -----
current pricesh
19ie         >978      1979     >900     1981      1962     I9S3     1934               199S     1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
-__---------------
Gross Donestia Produet            2970     -8.3       9.6     -3.3     -0.0      14.4      4.2      -4.1               5.2      3.9
Agrtculture                      568    -23.7      27.3    -18.3     -5.6      24.7      4.9    -20.5               10.3      3.2
Induutry                         739     -9.0      11.0     -2.9      5.7      14.9      4.7      0.1                3.5      5.0
Other                           1663      4.0       2.4      3.5     -1.9      I0.1      3.7      0.4                4.5      3.6
Consumption                       2504      4.7       0.9      2.9      3.3       6.5      4.8     -1.3                1.0      3.5
Oroao lnveaonont                   460     -4.9      12.9    -22.3       1.1      6.5      3.1      -7.9              23.4       3.8
Exporte of 6NF5                    853    -30.4      12.1    -15.7       1.3     20.3      2.1     -3.1                8.6      5.0
Importe of 6NFS                   1327     -6.6      -5.9     -7.8     11.1    -2.4        3.7     -2.0                3.1      3.3
Grise Domestic Saving            -13.7    -84.1    357.0    -92.8   -552.9               -23.4    -55.4              165.0      13.9
PRICES
6OP Deol4tor<1979-10)                     93       ffl      I12      120       132      142      159                176      264
Exchange rate IUS9- 1                     226       213      211      272       329      381      420                472                                              c-
Shore oa OUP at Market PrîcesuiZ                       Average Annuel Inerise ZX)
tit current prlu>                                ati canolent pricas)
>970     1975     1980     1995      1990           1870-75   1979-80  1980-85  1985-90
-----------_ ---------  ---------_ -------_--          ------------------------------------____
6rous Dontiec Product                     >09.0    >00.0    100.0   >90.0    >00.0                  1.9      0.6       3.9      4.1
Agriculture                              24.1     30.2      19.1     18.5      18.1               0.8     -3.9       2.8      3.9
Induutry                                 21.5     24.0      24.9    26.8      29.9                3.2      2.2     568        5.5
Othor                                    54.4      45.8    56.0    54.7       53.0                0.8       1.9      3.5      3.5
ConsuAption                                88.9      97.7    >90.5    93.6      09.5                1.8      2.9       2.8      3.5
Bros& Investment                           15.7      17.8     15.5    16.8       16.3               3.0      -2.4      4.7      3.8
Exporte of 6NFS                            27.4      36.4     28.7    33.2      35.5                1.0     -4.9       6.4      4.9
Importe of 6NFS                            32.0     41.9      44.7    43.7      41.3                1.4     -0.2      2.6       3.3
------- ------- ------ -------  ------ --_-_--  ------- --___- -------__-    -- ---_   _--______ -------------------------------------------_
PU3LIC FINANCE                            FY 79    FY 75    FY 80   FY 81    FY 82    FY 83    FY 84    FY 85
(billions of CFA francs)
Current Revenue                            97.1    122.6    139.2   I25.5    151.9    175.7    189.4    2>0.0
Currunt Exp.nditure                        94.1    105.5    144.9   161.3    IS5.4    186.6    209.4    220.4
Current Balance                             3.0      17.1     -5.7   -25.8    -13.5    -10.9    -16.0    -10.4
Capital Expanditure  a/                     9.5      12.0     13.2    21.1       6.9       7.9     10.0      9.0
Surplus or Daeicet <-)                     -6.5       5.1    -19.9   -46.9    -20.4    -18.8    -26.0    -19.4
a/ Central Bovernnnnt only, *xcludeu paraotatulo.
q 1                                                                                  ?       t



ANNEX I
rage 6 of 7
SENE6ALs  EXTERNAL TRADE                                    Auguet 9,  l9e5
Populationi 6202 <i1d-1983. thous>
ONP par capitaI 440 US$ 11993>
Apount                         Annuel grouth rates ISI at conasent prices
{ntill    US$    *t     _---------------------------------------------------------
current priceas
19g          1978      1979      19S0      1991      1982      1983      1904                1985      Is90
EXTERNAL TRODE
_______________
Marchandiae export                    481    -48.1      24.1    -24.3         7.2      26.4       0.8      -7.7                 9.9      5.0
prlmary                            263    -Sl.1       25.1     -29.1      -9.4      73.9       9.5    -22.7                  0.6       5.3
Potroloum                           90      42.0    -37.8    -16.1        92.5    -55.0        15.4      0.9                 4.1       3.5
Oth4er                             12    -75.8    167.4    -14.6           1.4      S.6       3.4      41.7                14.8       5.0
Marchandiae Importa                   973    -12.4      -6.2    -13.8        17.3      -1.6       2.8     -4.9                 2.3       3.0
Food end Beverages                 210      12.6      16.4    -27.0       46.2    -10.9       -0.2      -6.4               -11.3       2.5
Petroleuz                          276      19.0      -3.0       7.6       19.3    -14.0       5.5    -16.2                 20.6      -1.3
Machinary & Equipxent              159    -24.7       -7.5    -12.5    -14.0         9.9       6.9        1.4                0.0       6.4
Othoro                             329    -23.1    -15.2    -16.0          15.7      8.2        1.6     -0.7                 2.6       3.9
Pr ces
Export Price Index                            94.2    100.0    115.7        140.0    143.4    162.9    178.5                 183.4    297.2
Import Price Index                            S8.7    100.0    124.2    147.6    159.9    171.7    186.9                     201.2    297,1 1
Tarria of Trade Index                        116.2    100.0       93.Z      94.9      89.7      99.1      95.5                96.1     100.0                                     Ln
Compoaition of Marchandise TradeaCi                         Average Annual Increosa <Z>
let current pric*l)                                    (ai constant prices>
1975    Iss        1985      Iss9                      1975-80   1980-85  1985-90
aerchandise export                           100.9    100.0    100.0    100.0                              -5.4      6.4       5.0
priMary                                     70.5      55.2      57.2      54.8                          -7.9       7.7       5.3
Pstroieum                                    7.0      18.7       9.2       9.1                           7.3       1.0       3.5
Othura                                      22.5      26.1      33.6      36.1                          -1.8      13.2       5.0
Morchandlse Importa                          100.0    100.0    10.0    100.0                             -0.3       2.9       3.0
Food and Beveregea                          23.2      21.5      18.7      17.1                           4.1       1.7       2.5
Petroleum                                   12.0      28.4      29.5      26.5                           9.4       5.7      -1.3
Machinary & Equipnont                       18.4      16.2      14.7      14.9                          -3.1       0.5       6.4
Others                                      46.4      33.9      37.1      41.5                          -5.8       5.3       3.8
Shore of Trade wtth                         Share of Trado with                    Share of tred. with oil
Induitrial Ceuntrles (S)                   Ooveloping Countries(<l             Exportino Oeveloping Countrtes(a)
Direction of Trada a/                1975      1990      1991                1975      1980      1991                1975     1980      1991
Exporta                              66.4     50.4      47.5                20.0      35.6      36.3                           2.5       2.6
Importà                             67.1      60.6      68.4                11.5       19.9     15.8                 4.1      18.1      12.9
ai Exporta. f.o.bi importsa c.i.f. <Sources I1FI



ANNEX I
Pare 7 of 7
SENEGAL - BALANCE OF PAYMENT9 ,EXTERNAL CArLTAL AND DENT                           August   9 H5
(Millonm of U9 * et currunt prices)                                                                           L
Actual                                                   ProJect-d
Indicator                                 -- - -- - -- - -- - - --- -- -  -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -
1978      1979      1990       1991       1982        1993    19B4e              1995      199n
BALANCE OF PAVMENTS
Exporte of goods 1 NFS                        687       071       953        915       829        777       799                  935      135
of whichaMfrchandîie(f.c.b>                 402        547       491        512       SiS        510       525                  625       1252
Imports of goadu & NFB                       1022      1150       1327      J365      1194       1143      1105                 1229      2133
of whichaMerchandise(f.c.b>                  745       192       9/3       10¶9       896        947       905                  994       1520
Net factor incame                             -77       *-79      -100       794        -a       -105      -116                 -131       -156
Net transfers                                  29         2          0        31        30         29        29                   31         46
Current Account Balance                      -384      -156      -574       -613      -423       -442      -394                 -393       -409
Private direct inv.mtment                      43        71         86        70        55         47        52                   56         76
Official Grant Aid                             93        96        120       122        107       tl3       115                  lII        157
Net MLT LonnrnDR9>                            160       147        155       179       293        304       261                  271        202
Dimburument                                 226       222       272        226       293        322       301                  393        393
Repaymentu                                   b6        75        117        4B         10        le        40                  122        191
Oth0 r capital a                               16       -2         96        7E      -136       -103      -109                 -109        -25
D cruace in ruuurveu                           72        no        117       165        114        et        74                   57         -2
Net formign asrmtutincl.IMF>                  171      *-29a      -413      -490      -52h       -522      -475
a Include erroru and omimiaonm
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DE8T
OFFICIAL GRANTS                           92.6       72.4      119.7     122.2     106.5      112.9     114.3                117.5      157.3             cn
CONCESiIONAL LOANS                        56.0       62.5      63.3      153.9     107.7      165.2     158.0                259.9     ZL3.4 .4
DAC                                      12.9      19.5      12.5       35.3      32.0      36.8       47.9                5S.9       90.9
OPEC                                     0.0        6.7       0.9       55.6      11.6      49.7       62.2                135.9      93.4
IDA                                      9.7       16.2      12.1      47.5       21.0      20.0       21.2                 39.0      52.O
OITHER                                  33.5       21.1      37.9       15.4      42.3      59.7       26.7                 26.1      56.4
NON-CONCES9IONAL LOAN9                    169.9     159.3     209.9       72.3     195.1      157.1     142.9                133.1      109.9
OFFICIAL EXPORT CREDIT5                 26.7       40.5      70.6       29.0     136.5      92.1       44.1             ,  30.7       76.9
I1RD                                     6.6       11.0      19.0      21.9        4.8      11.8        B.9                  6.3       1.1
OTHER MULTILATERAL                       6.6        1.9       13.6      13.3       9.0      32.2       17.0                 16.1       10.1
PRIVATE                                 129.9     106.0     106.6        9.1      34.9       21.0      72.8                 80.0      21.9
EXTERNAL DEBT                              1205.2    1357.7    1591.0    1700.6    2152.5    2179.8    2603.0                 2754.4    4191.7
DENT OUT9T. & DIBNURGEO                  607.7      791.1     995.2      989.7    1236.5    1499.1    1759.0                2029.7    2992.2
OFFICIAL                               345.4      459.3     608.6      710.2     967.2    1295.9    1496.7                1741.1    2823.9
PRIVATE                                262.3      331.9     296.6      279.5     269.3     212.3      272.3                299.6     168.3
UNDIBSUR9ED OE8T                         597.5      566.6    46S.9       710.9     916.0      690.7     944,0                724.7    1199.5
DEDT BERVICE
TOTAL SERVICE PAYMENTS 1/                 96.1      117.6     172.2       B9.1      41 9      57.3       92.6                220.6     299.5
INTEREUT                                30.1       43.0      54.9      41.0       37.3      39.2       52.9                99.2    .100.4
PAYMENT AS X OF EXPORTO                    14.0      13.5       20.2      10.9       5.7        7.4      11.6                 23.6       16.3
VERRME INTEREST RATE ON KNE  LOANS                                                                4.7       4.7                  4.*        6.1
AVERAOE MATURITY OF NEW LOANUSYEARS)         12.8      20.-       21.4      19.6      22.0       24.0      22.5                 20.2       17.9
AWERAG  GfPACE PERIOD<YEARUI                            5.7        6.2       5.3       6.0        6.3       4.2                  5.6        5.1
AVERAGE GRANT ELEMENTtXI                                                                         32.8 Z2.1                      23.9       24.0
-                     ~~~~~~~~~-------------------                                        32.9--2----------24-0
1. Exucludiln 1MF repurchaucu
t  i                                                                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 27 -                              Aum II
Pae 1 of 2
SLE OF WMD BAIC OPRAT           IN S!RWL
A. Statoemt of Bank Imms and IDA Credit8 (as of Sgeteber 30, 1985) *
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ADvwt l£!sscanwelatos
InriCredit                                                                  DQruLn
Nuer         Year   Borrowe                                        Bank       M  2/    lsbursed 2/
irteen I        /      t  t8 y                                    71.97    133.24
1412-T-S     1977   Seel        Petite Cte Tourias                8.0                    1.11
1413-SE      1977   S l         Petite Cete Tourin                5.6                   0.91
1518-SE      1978   RfFS        Raflways m                        11.0                  0.43
775-6E       1978   Soeegal     Deb -Lmnpsar Irrigation                     20.0         1.18
908-SE       1979   Senegal      Education m                                22.0         8.52
991-SE       1980   S           Seli Rurai Operations                       11.0        5.03
993-SE       1980   Sen1        Fourth !iqgly                               28.0        0.01
1810-SE      1980   Senegal     Fourth      Y                     10.0                 10.00
S-26-SE      1980   Seneal    Powr  g. & T.                                  3.3        0.66
1061-SE      1980   Senegal     T.A. for Plamning                            5.3        1.59
1973-5E      1981   S0FISFDIr  Tnvetuat ProemtimL                  6.5                  4.04
1136-SE      1981   Senea]      InvesY-nt ProewIo                            2.5        1.26
2025-SE      1981   SEËICS      Rail T                            19.3                   6.37
1103-SE      1981   Se:egal     Forest                                       9.3        6.31
1176-SE      1982   S           A      ll Resarch                           19.5       12.77
1310-SE      1983   S    a      Raral Bealth                                15.0       10.01
1323-S       1983   Sea1etroleo  Exploratimn                                 9.5        5.17
1360-SE      1983   SePsgal        I.d. De. Ebg.                             7.7        7.14
1398-SE      1983   SeneSul TLpubli 11.0                                                8.83
1406-SE      1983    S          E.S. Rm    Dev.                             16.1       14.94
1448-S       1984   S     l     Fifth a                                     10.75       7.31
SF-L5-SE     1984   Seoa        Fifth                                       10.75       8.85
1458-SE      1984   Senega.    T.A  for Urban M1wt. & Eabab.                 3.05       2.29
SF-L3-SE     1984   Senegal     T.A. for UJrban Igt & Rebab.                 2.95       2.83
1459-SE      1984   Seneal      Dakar Ccta:iner Fort                         2.65       2.23
SF-14-SE     1984   Seneal      Dakar Ccntainer Port                         4.85       4.98
1554-SE      1985   Senegal     Elegv  Centers Wbter Supply                 24.00      24.02
Total                                                    132.37    372.44      158.79
of aldh repald                                          24.61       6.20
Total now outstandJrg                                    107.76    366.24
ID RD    ms
hmm  sold                         3-.4    I;2
of ubich has bei repaid          3.24   1.17             0.19       0.05
Total rew held by Bank anl IDA, 3/                       107.57    366.19
Total uxdisbursed                                         22.86    135.93      158.79
1/ A lem of LS$3.5 milUioc for agrkulttl credit (584-SE) vnde    1969 tas caoellfed on
March 25, 1971.
2/ oenn-ging wieh Credit 1061-SE, credits have been denalted in Special Dradng Rigits (SJR). Ibe
-   doar amets In dthese coJms represent tbe dollar equialgents at the t:! ioe  crdit  otIioe
for the JD& aix>mts and the US$ equjàalents as of Sept_ber 30. 1985, for the ià;=sbur2ed  oeats
(1 SDR = US$1.05940).
31 Prier to emdiange adjustnnts.
*  Ihe status of the projects listed in Part A is descrIbed in a separate report cn aU Banlc/JID
finarnial projects in emxmeacui4  hiAch 1_ updated twioe yearly ancd crculated to the Ezeti±ve
Directors oa april 30 and October 31.



- 28-                                  AM  II
B. Sttmut cf Iic Inmamt (a cf Swt.is 30, 1985)
FJa.li Ymr                                 1ire of anm1ua         Imm        Invesaiut       Total
1967         SocUté lUStrlell           ercufzer PlaLt         2.45         1.01           3.46
d'B=ai du S 1ga
1972                                                                         .84           0.84
1973)        BlD ségal, S.A.            Vqegtabe Bqport-0.4.8
176)
1974         SFISE]                        e     t                          0.24           0.24
1980          RP deHtat ty utl Caital                           -           0.47           0.47
dui S,no  SSL              M
1980          Soc  i&t Ie:aUre          Toerlm                 3.00          -             3.00
du ERbcxls, SAL
1982          ITntdi e Ql 1uiqoes        rti±izer             25.00          -            25.00
dLuS&Wgal
Total Grogs COemitmits                          30.45          2.56          33.01
Imm Ccllals    ,  Toma m  rm
1 SnlPqMtS,  gTsr    Md imam2.62                           1.05           3.67
Total coemdtflts     beld by IPC                27.83          1.51          29.34
UhUisbursed Bulnce                              24.00         0.00           24.00



- 29 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
CESAG PROJECT
Srpplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  October 1981-March 1982
(b)  Project prepared by:             CEAO, ESGE staff, and consultants
(c)  Appraisal Mission:               April 1982
(d)  Negotiations:                    March 1984
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  February 1986
Section II: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal items:
From Senegal:
(a) it vill onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit to CESAG
(para 48), and transfer to CESAG the ovnership of ESGE
facilities (para 56);
(b) in case of dissolution of CESAG, it would take all necessary
measures to regain possession of CESAG facilities aud use them to
train high- and middle-level managers (para 56); and
(c)  it vlll make available to CESAG the services of the Education
Project Unit, as and when required (para 58).
From CEAO:
(a)  it vill provide the necessary recurrent financing for operation
of CESAG (para 48);
(b)  CESAG facilities vould revert to Senegal in case CE-O or CESAG
does not meet its agreed financial obligations (para 56); and
(c) it vill provide CESAG vith funds, as needed, for the purposes set
out in para 56.
From CESAG:
(a) detailed teaching programs for CESAG vill be prepared and
reviewed vith IDA prior to June 30, 1987, and a revîew and
evaluation of the programs on the basis of the experience gained
vill be prepared annually and submitted to IDA (para 50);



- 30 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  it vill consult vith IDA prior to making arrangements for the
execution and coordination of any external assistance programs
(para 52);
(c)  should 4 new Director be appointed during project implementation,
CESAG vill consult with IDA on the qualifications and experience
of the czndidates to help ensure that only qualified candidates
vill be proposed to the Council of Ministers (para 54);
(d) only specialists whose qualifications, experience and termB of
reference are acceptable to IDA vill be appointed and they vill
be recruited in accordance vith IDA guidelines (para 51); and
(e)  the fellovshipB vill be avarded for programs acceptable to IDA
and to suitably qualified candidates, selected on the basis of
criteria acceptable to IDA, who vill serve at least five years in
the positions for which they vere trained (para 53).
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a) effectiveness of the Financing Agreement and the Implementation
Agreement between Senegal, CEAO and CESAG, both vith terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. (para 56); and
(b) payment by CEAO to CESAG of an amount of CFAF 95 million for
recurrent finance during the first year (1986) of the project
(para 48).



|0      O-co   i to                                                    çWEST AFRICA
,    oS   { *vs                                   {                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFRIXflu  DE L'ouEsr
|----j    \                                                      J      WEST AFRICAN  ECONOMIC  COMMUNITY
set/  S   n   J R S        CEAO
/1 #`  !               T-s                                              6COMMUNAUTE ECONOMIQUE DE
4/   _ j                i      \             A L G E R I A                  _         'AfRIQUE Of L'OUEST (CEA 0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU W  &  «a r^U oe ¶14 CIAo
j;.:.              &     ~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA                                                                                             TUx  .  TWI iiloTm OF l>gMr"aTtw
I  a                                                                     .           --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&A   AO C   MRA= %PL
.         ,Nouaîchotl                                                  4     _.                                            tFtirf 't au~~~~~~~~N  NTI0AI  AWAf 0I't
@ RERUBlIC OF             _                                                             s_@ ,*                                              brsg fS4tlatt Ar4 Otatili(TAVI
THE GAMBIAr.:    N-N                                                      o                                   .   i «  A
GUINEA4SISSU                                                    g dm
Ai./1C,?ic  Océain ~S~wn   SERNE                  ,
c  s3    g                `                                                                         onogv» |c
de,.
--f      - gàmln



