OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1638 SE
DOCU MENS
Project Agreement
(CESAG Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CENTRE AFRICAIN D'ETUDES SUPERIEURES
EN GESTION (CESAG)
and
WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC
COMMUNITY (WAEC)
Dated                    7        , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1638 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                7            , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME I ASSOCI TION (hereinafter called the
Association) and CENTRE AFRICAIN D'ETUDES SUPERIEURES EN GESTION
(hereinafter called CESAG) and WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
(hereinafter called WAEC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
CESAG and WAEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Financing Agreements entered into between the
Borrower, CESAG and WAEC, the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
CESAG on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CESAG and WAEC, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CESAG and WAEC declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, CESAG shall carry
out the Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and training practices.
(b) WAEC shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CESAG to perform
such obligations.
Section 2.02. (a) For purposes of carrying out the Project,
CESAG shall employ specialists whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such specialists to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank R,rrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) For purposes of carrying out the Project, CESAG shall
utilize, as shall be required for the purpose, the services of
the Project Unit made available to it by the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CESAG undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by CESAG to replace or repair such goods.
(b) CESAG shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. CESAG and WAEC shall duly perform all their
obligations under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, CESAG or WAEC shall not take or


﻿-3-
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) CESAG shall promptly p-epare detailed
teaching programs for purposes of Part B of the Project and shall
furnish said programs to the Association for its review not later
than June 30, 1987, or such later date as the Association may
agree.
(b) CESAG shall annually review and evaluate said programs
on the basis of the experience gained during the previous years
and exchange views with the Association on the foregoing.
Section 2.07. (a) Fellowships financed by the proceeds of
the credit shall be awarded by CESAG for programs and to
beneficiaries selected on the basis of criteria acceptable to
IDA.
(b) CESAG shall take all necessary measures to ensure that,
at the end of their training, such beneficiaries serve for at
least five years in the positions for which they have been
trained.
Section 2.08. (a) CESAG and WAEC shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing
Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) CESAG and WAEC shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by CESAG and WAEC of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and under the Financ-
ing Agreements.
Section 2.09. (a) CESAG shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) CESAG shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Association
every six months progress reports, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the pro-
gress of the Project; and (iv) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by CESAG of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CESAG and
the Association, CESAG shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by CESAG and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) CESAG shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all facilities, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of CESAG and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CESAG
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) CESAG shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,


﻿-5-
financial, management and educational practices under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management assisted by com-
petent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) CESAG shall, prior to proposing to its Council of
Ministers any candidates for appointment to the position of
Director, consult with the Association on the qualifications and
experience of such candidates to ensure that their qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Association.
(c) CESAG shall consult the Association prior to making
arrangements for the execution and coordination of external
assistance programs.
Section 3.02. CESAG shall, at all times, operate and main-
tain its patrimony, including its facilities and equipment, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. CESAG shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. WAEC shall, as and when required and without
limitation upon its obligations under Section 2.01 (b) of this
Agreement, make available to CESAG:
(a) all funds necessary to enable CESAG to carry on its
operations pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and
(b) all funds necessary to enable CESAG to meet its obliga-
tions under the Financing Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) CESAG shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including separate accounts to reflect its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) CESAG shall: (i) have the separate accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Association annually
certified copies of its financial statements for each fiscal
year; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, said audit and said financial state-
ments as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.06. Whenever any of the events referred to in
Article 9 of the Protocole d'Accord and in Section 2.02 of the
Convention d'Execution (Financing Agreement) shall occur, CESAG
and WAEC shall grant the Borrower a right of first refusal per-
mitting the Borrower to acquire CESAG's facilities on reasonable
terms and conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation aiad Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, of CESAG and of WAEC thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
CESAG and WAEC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, teLex or radiograi to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CESAG:
Boulevard G&nfral de Gaulle
Angle Avenue Malick Sy
B.P. 3802
Dakar
S&n6gal
For WAEC:
West African Economic Community
B.P. 643
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5212 UV


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CESAG or WAEC may be taken or exe-
cuted by CESAG's Director-General, or WAEC's Secretary General,
respectively, or such other person or persons as CESAG or WAEC,
respectively, shall designate in writing, and CESAG or WAEC, as
the case may be, shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/            1f    reS    2      &   L
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
CENTRE AFRICAIN D'ETUDES SUPERIEURES
EN GESTION
By
Authorized Representative
WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Byized R
Afthor ized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition) (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CESAG shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. CESAG shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Items shall be grouped to the greatest extent as shall be
appropriate to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the


﻿- 10 -
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers participating in
International Competitive Bidding
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in WAEC Member Countries referred to in Section 1.02 (e) of the
Development Credit Agreement may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in said
WAEC Member Countries if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of CESAG and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in said WAEC Member
Countries equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in WAEC Member Countries.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 11 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
turther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of' such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of furniture and     equipment which   cannot be
grouped into packages of at least $50,000 equivalent may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised in WAEC
Member Countries in accordance with procurement procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Items of   furniture and   equipment which   cannot be
grouped into packages of at least $50,000 equivalent, and for
which there shall be only a limited number of suppliers and whose
individual cost shall not exceed $15,000 equivalent, may be
procured directly after having obtained price quotations and
other information from an appropriate number of suppliers.
3.   Paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall apply only to the extent
that the total cost of items procured under the provisions there-
of shall not exceed $150,000 equivalent.
D.   P2view of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CESAG shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with


﻿a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CESAG
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
CESAG and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CESAG shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to tie Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform CESAG and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 13 -
more than 10% of the original price, CESAG shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform CESAG and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


