                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                 ReportNo. 28371




               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                           PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                     FORA


 PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATICEDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                   INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.4 MILLION


                     (US$lOOMILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                       TO


                 THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH


                                  JULY 20,2004




HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
South Asia Region


This documenthas a restricted distributionand may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
                      Effective as of May 2004
                   Currency Unit = Taka (BD)
                          US$1 =Taka 61.0



                     Government Fiscal Year
                          July 1- June 30



             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADB        Asian Development Bank
ADP        Annual Development Program
BANBEIS    BangladeshBureauof EducationStatistics
BISE       Board of Intermediateand Secondary Education
BTEB       BangladeshTechnicalEducationBoard
CAS        CountryAssistance Strategy
CBOs       Community BasedOrganizations
CFAA       CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CIDA       CanadianInternationalDevelopmentAgency
DIA        Directorateof InspectionandAudit
DfID       Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment
DSC        Development Support Credit
DSHE       Directorateof Secondaryand HigherEducation
EC         EuropeanCommission
EED        EducationEngineeringDepartment
EFA        Education For All
ESDSC      Education Sector Development SupportCredit
ESR        Education Sector Reform
ESRP       Education Sector ReformProgram
EU         EuropeanUnion
FDI        ForeignDirect Investment
FFE        FoodFor EducationProgram
FIMA       FinancialManagementAcademy
FMRP       FinancialManagementReformProgram
FSS        FemaleSecondaryStipends
FY         FiscalYear
GBs        GoverningBodies
GDP        Gross DomesticProduct
GOB        Government of Bangladesh
HSC        Higher SecondaryCertificate
IDA        IntemationalDevelopmentAgency
IEC        Information,Educationand Communication
IMF        IntemationalMonetaryFund
I-PRSP     Interim-PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
MDG        Millennium DevelopmentGoals
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOPME      Ministry of Primaryand Mass Education
MPO        Monthly Pay Order
NACER      NationalAdvisory Committeeon EducationReforms
NAEM       NationalAcademy of EducationManagement
NAPE       NationalAcademy of Primary Education
NCTB       NationalCurriculum and Textbook Board
NGOs       Non-GovernmentalOrganizations
NORAD      NorwegianAgency for DevelopmentCooperation
NVTB       NationalVocationalTraining Board



                                   11

                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




        PEDP I           PrimaryEducationDevelopment ProgramI
        PEDPII           PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram I1
        PER              PublicExpenditureReview
        PRGF             Poverty ReductionGrowth Facility
        PRSP             Poverty ReductionStrategyPaper
        PRSC             PovertyReductionSupportCredit
        RIBEC            Reformin Budget andExpenditureControl
        ROSC             Report on Observanceof StandardsandCodes
        SMCs             School Management Committees
        SOEs             Statement of Expenditures
        ssc              Secondary School Certificate
        UNICEF           UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
        WDR              World DevelopmentReport




                     CountryDirector          ChristineI.Wallich
                     Sector Manager           Michelle Riboud
                     Team Leader              Amit Dar

                    I                                            I




                                                 ...
                                                 111




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


               THEPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
             PROGRAMMATIC EDUCATIONSECTOR CREDIT


                      Credit and ProgramSummary

Borrower:     The People's Republic o f Bangladesh

Amount:       SDR 68.4 million (UStSlOO million equivalent)

Terms:        Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-year grace period

Description:  This credit will assist the Ministry o fEducation (MOE) inundertakmg the first
              phase o f amedium-termreform agenda aimed at addressing systemic
              governance issues in order to raise the quality and cost-effectiveness o f
              service delivery, and improve equity o f access in secondary education. The
              reform agenda focuses on:
                   Increasing accountability of secondary schools both to thegovernment
              and to the community. Reforms inthese areas will include rigorously
              enforcing criteria governing the establishment o f institutions, and setting up
              institutional mechanisms for linking school subsidies to objective measures
              o f school performance. The strategy also calls for strengthening school
              management committees to give them a greater role inschool management.
                   Enhancing equity in access. T o enhance access to secondary
              schooling, MOEhas beenproviding stipends to girls at the secondary level.
              Over the next few years, means-testing mechanisms will be piloted to better
              target these subsidies to the poor. Incentives will be provided to the private
              sector to set up institutions inunderserved areas.
                   Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination. MOEwill place
              significant emphasis on program evaluation and monitoring to guide policy.
              MOE's capacity is being enhanced to conduct public expenditure tracking
              surveys, and to undertake the impact evaluation o f programs and policies
              beingundertaken. Informationon standardized examination outcomes,
              school performance, and on program effectiveness will be disseminated
              widely.
                    Improving teacher's quality through emphasis on teacher recruitment
              and training. An autonomous Teacher registrationand certification agency
              will be established, which will have the responsibility for developing a
              roster o f pre-qualified and certified individuals who are eligible to be hired
              as teachers. An apex institution will also be set up to be responsible for the
              management o f teacher training and regulate training institutions. This
              institution will also establish standards for new and in-service teachers.
                   Enhancing transparency in textbookproduction and making curriculum
              more relevant and demand-driven. Textbook production will be privatized
              inaphasedmanner beginning with the higher secondary sector (grades 11-
              12). The National Curriculum andTextbook Board (NCTB) will develop
              andoversee a transparent process o f textbook evaluationandapproval. The
              curriculum wing o f NCTBwill be strengthened to enable it to perform it's
              functions more effectively.


                                            iv

Benefits:    Improving governance has repeatedly beenidentified as the biggest
             development challenge facing Bangladesh and the greatest impediment to
             achieving its growthpotential andthus achieving the poverty reduction
             MDG. The proposed credit will assist inleveraging reforms aimed at
             raising the quality o f service delivery, while at the same time improving
             equity o f access to secondary education. By altering the incentives for the
             financing andprovision o f education, andbuildinggreater accountability,
             these reforms will reduce rent-seeking opportunities and enhance cost-
             effectiveness.

             Itis intended that these reforms will leadto outcomes such as more
             equitable access to secondary education with more schools being set up in
             underserved areas, better trained and more effective teachers, reduced
             teacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates, better
             performance instandardized examinations, reduced time to complete the
             secondary cycle, and inunit costs per student completing the cycle. This
             will ultimately leadto a more skilled labor force attuned to the needs o f the
             Bangladeshi labor market, raising its competitiveness in global markets.

Risksand     Key risks and mitigation strategies include:
Mitigation         Macroeconomic Risks: There i s a risk o f deterioration inthe
Strategy:    macroeconomic situation. Towards ensuring macroeconomic stability, the
             Government has taken actions inkey areas o f macroeconomic management
             -e.g.fiscal deficitsandtheirdomesticfinancinghavebeencurtailed, and
             fiscal transparency and budget management are being improved. The
             medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreed with the IMFand
             IDAprovides for the maintenance o f sustainable fiscal deficits andtargets
             an acceleration inthe rate o f economic growth.
                   PoZitical Risks. Sustaining the commitment to reform is likely to meet
             resistance from several entrenched lobbies which will see significant
             reductions inrents as a result o f these reforms.    MOEisbeingrealistic in
             its approach to reforms. A medium-term framework has been developed
             which has prioritized and sequenced the reforms that need to be undertaken,
             andattentionis focused inthis first phase onundertaking crucial but at the
                                                                                 -
             same time - politically sustainable, reforms. T o buildbuy-infor this
             process, MOE i s holding numerous consultations with key stakeholders as it
             moves forward inthis process. MOEhas launched a significant IEC
             campaign on its medium-term strategy, and is discussing the benefits with
             key stakeholders.
                   Capacity Constraints. Capacity o f MOEneeds to be strengthened to
              ensure that implementation o f reforms take place ina timely manner.
              Several measure are being taken to alleviate this problem. Particular
              emphasis is being given to buildingtechnical planning capacity and
              focusing the role of MOE and its attendant institutions towards formulating
             policies, financing, setting quality standards, assuring quality delivery, and
             monitoring and evaluation. Towards strengthening local level capacity,
              oversight committees have been formed in all districts and upazilas to
             monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure o f information. In
              the medium-term, greater autonomy will be devolved to zonal, district and
              upazila levels, whose capacity will be enhanced to carry out functions such
              as monitoring school performance and the quality o f schooling. MOE's
              strategy also realizes the importance o f strengthening school management
              committees to give them greater responsibility regarding the supervision o f
              schools. In addition, many reforms will be implemented incollaboration
             with the private sector andindependent service providers on a competitive



                                            V

              basis. This will not only leadto higher quality of services, but also ensure
              that MOE's capacity is not unduly stretched.
                   Financial risks. Owingto the uncertain external environment -which
              may not improve inthe near future - the government's ability to maintain its
              commitment to the sub-sector may be an issue. While there are concerns
              about the uncertain external environment, the Government remains
              committed to maintaining a high level of investment inthe education sector.
              Furthermore, Bangladesh enjoys considerable goodwill among the donor
              community, which has indicatedthat their support to the education sector
              will remainhighifthe reform efforts are sustained.

Estimated     SDR 68.4 million ($100million equivalent) disbursed ina single tranche
Disbursement  upon credit effectiveness.
Sector Code:  Education
ProjectID     PO77789
Number:




                                          vi


                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

Abbreviations andAcronyms                                                                        i

Credit and ProgramSummary                                                                       iv

I.    Introduction                                                                               1

11. Overviewof EducationSector
      Achievements
      Challenges
      The Causes

111. Challengesfacingthe SecondaryEducationSub-sector                                            5
      SystemManagement                                                                           7
      Teacher Effectiveness                                                                     10
      Textbooks andCurriculum                                                                   11

IV. The Governments ReformAgenda andBankandDonor Support                                        11
      Operationalizationofthe I-PRSP:The Medium-TermStrategyfor Education                       13
      BankandDonor StrategyinEducation                                                          16

V.    IDA'SSupportto the Medium-TermReformAgenda                                                17
      SystemManagement                                                                          17
      Teacher Effectiveness                                                                     20
      TextbooksandCurriculum                                                                    21

VI. The ProposedCredit                                                                          24
      FiduciaryIssues                                                                           25
      EnvironmentalAspects                                                                      27
      PovertyandSocial Impacts                                                                  27
      Benefits andRisks                                                                         28


Annexes

Annex A1 - Letterof SectorPolicy                                                                 31
Annex A2 - Matrix of ReformActions                                                               38
AnnexB - BangladeshMedium-TermMacroeconomicFramework                                            43
AnnexC - IECCampaignfor Disseminatingthe EducationPolicyFramework                               49
AnnexD - EnhancingCommunityParticipation- Strengtheningthe Rolesof SMCs                          51
AnnexE - EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                                                            54
AnnexF - FinancialManagementActionMatrix                                                         63
AnnexG - IMFPublic InformationNotice:Article IVConsultations                                     65
AnnexH - Bangladeshat a Glance                                                                   71

MAP

                                           Task Team
 Ailzit Dar, Task Team Leader; Chirigboon Lee, Lead Education Specialist; Hena Mukherjee, Lead
 Education Specialist; Mahmudul Alam, Sr. Education Economist; Kishor Uprety, Sr. Counsel;
 Anthony Bottrill, Lead Economist; Zahid Hussain, Senior Economist; Burhanuddin Ahmed, Sr.
 Financial Management Specialist; Mark Laprairie, Education Specialist; Rajat Narula, Sr. Finance
 Officer; P.K. Subramanium, Senior Financial Management Specialist; Irajen Appasamy, Operations
 Officer; Fatema Rosalynn Khan, ResearchAnalyst; Bertha Mburugu, Program Assistant; and
 NazrnaSultana, Program Assistant.

 Peer Reviewers: Eduardo VelezBustillo, Sector Manager (LCSHD), Ani1 Deolalikar, Lead
 Economist (SASHD), Sliatitayanan Devarajan, Chief Economist (SAR VP); Paud Murphy, Lead
                                                v11


           MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
               OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS
               ONA PROPOSEDSECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO THE
                           PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOF BANGLADESH
      FORA PROGRAMMATICEDUCATIONSECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

1.       IsubmitforyourapprovalaproposedadjustmentcredittothePeople'sRepublicof
Bangladeshfor SDR 68.4 million (US$lOO million equivalent). This would be the first o f a
series o f three adjustment credits to support the Government o f Bangladesh's reformprogram
to enhance access and quality o f education. The borrower has requested that the credit be on
standard IDA terms, for 40 years with a 10-year grace period.



                                          I. Introduction

2.       Bangladesh's economic performance inthe past decade has been relatively strong.
Annual GDP growth averaged five percent duringthe 199Os, withrelatively highrates o f
investment (about 22 percent o f GDP), increased public spending on social sectors and the
emergence o f progressive entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, the economy continues to perform below
its true potential o f 6-7 percent annual growth neededto achieve the goal o f halvingthe incidence
o f poverty from current levelsby 2015. A new Government with a strong parliamentary majority
was elected in October 2001, with an overwhelming mandate to improve governance and to
strengthen economic management. The Government has taken rapid action to stabilize the
macroeconomic environment and has designed a program to improve governance. An Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was preparedon the basis o f extensive consultations
with stakeholders and the process o fpreparingthe PRSP is well underway. These actions are
critical and an integral part o f govemment's strategy for accelerating growth and reducing
poverty.

3.       To implement economic growth enhancing and poverty reducingreforms, the
Govemment has asked the IMFand the World Bank for financial support. Inresponse, the IMF
has put inplace a Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) and IDA provided a one tranche
Development Support Credit inJune 2003, complementingthe I M F ' s program. The DSC-I
supported a subset o f the Government's medium-term reform agenda. IDA i s also now working
closely with the Government on a second Development Support Credit, which will build on
supporting the reforms ingovernance, the financial sector, state owned enterprises, and the
energy sector. The actions supported by the credit will increase transparency and accountability,
help restore public and private sector confidence, and improve the investment climate. This, in
turn, will contribute to accelerating the rate o feconomic growth, employment creation and
poverty reduction.

4.       Anareawhich lies outside the immediate ambit o fthe DSC is educationsector reform.
While Bangladesh has made impressive gains inaccess to education, governance constraints have
contributed to the poor quality o f education at all levels. Recognizing that improving quality in
the education sector i s imperative inorder to make substantial progress towards achieving the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and Bangladesh's Education for All (EFA) targets, the
Govemment has launched several reform measures to address this issue.

5.        At the primary education level, the Ministry o fPrimary and Mass Education(MOPME)
i s being supported by a multi-donor group to implement the Primary EducationDevelopment
Project I1(PEDP 11) - a six-year program o f support which aims to strengthen educational access,
quality and efficiency. At the secondary and higher levels, reform efforts are being championed
by the Minister o f Education. The Ministryo f Education (MOE) has finalized a medium-term
framework for the secondary education sub-sector, which spells out targets to be achieved for
quality improvements, policy measures and specific actions neededto achieve these targets.

6.         Analysis reveals that while the secondary education sector i s relatively well-financed, a
critical issue that needs to be tackled i s enhancing the effectiveness o fresource spending. Inorder to
do this, the policy reforms articulated inMOE's medium-termframework needto be implemented.
The Government has requested the WorldBank for assistanceinorder to leveragepolitical support to
implement the reform agenda. An adjustment credit i s an appropriate instrument for this purpose.
Complementingthe reform strategies supported bythe DSC, IDA i s proposing a series o f single
tranche programmatic operations to assistthe reformprocess ineducation. This document outlines
the first o fthese operations, a programmatic Education Sector Adjustment Credit. This credit i s
focused on secondary education, keepinginview that reforms inprimaryeducation are being
addressed throughthe PEDP I1investment operation. However, this document also outlines reforms
being undertaken on cross-cutting issues between primaryand secondary education -especially in
the area oftextbooks and teacher quality. Futuresingle tranche operations willbe designed to also
support policy reforms inprimary education inconsonance with PEDP11.'

7.         T h i s credit aims to assist M O E inpushingthroughthe first phase o f a long-term and
ambitious reform agenda. This credit i s expected to provide balance o f payments support to the
Government to leverage reforms aimed at raising the quality and cost-effectiveness o f service
delivery, while at the same time, improving equity of access. By changing the incentives for the
financing and provision of education, these reforms will aim to reduce rent seeking opportunities
that have resultedinthe proliferation o f poorly performing schools.

8.         The remainder o f this document i s organized as follows. Section I1provides an overview
o f the education sector, while Section I11provides details on specific issues facing the secondary
education sector.          This is followed inSection IVby a briefdiscussion o f the government's
reform agenda in education. Section V discusses the first phase o f reforms being implemented by
Government. Section VI concludes with an assessment o f the benefits and risks o f the operation.
The letter o f sector policy and the medium-term policy reform matrix are attached as Annex A1
and Annex A 2 respectively.


                                       II.Overviewof theEducationSector

9.         InBangladesh, the management o fthe education system falls under two ministries-the
MinistryofPrimary andMassEducation(MOPME, responsible for primary education) and the
MinistryofEducation(MOE, responsible for secondary, vocational andtertiary education).
Overall there are more than 19 million students at the primary level ingovernment and NGO
schools, and over eight million at the secondary level -mostly inprivate schools which are
 subsidized by the government. Enrollments at the tertiary level are relatively small. This section
highlightssome o fthe achievements as well as some o f the challenges facing the sector.'

 ' Bangladesh   i s currently finalizing it's PRSP, andthis is expected to leadto a PovertyReductionSupport Credit
(PRSC) in2005. Inthis case, future singletranche operationswill be subsumedunder the PRSC.
   See also, Annex F, DevelopnzentSupport Credit to Bangladesh. World Bank (2003).



                                                                2

Achievements....

10.      Increased Access        I
to Education. Progress
towards the achievement
o f MDGs on access has
been strong. Bangladesh
has one o f the largest
systems o f primary
education inthe world. It
accommodates over 17
million children in
government supported
primary schools and close to two millionadditional children innon-formal institutions operated
by NGOs. Gross primary enrollment ratesrose from 71 percent in 1990to 96 percent in2000
(Table 1). Secondary enrollments have more than doubled duringthe 1990sto about 8.5 million.
While the tertiary education system i s still relatively small - it has recently seen rapid expansion.

11.       Gender Parity. Progress towards achieving gender parity has also been substantial. At
the primary level, girls' enrollment increased from 45 percent o f the total inthe early 1990s, and
i s now almost at par with boys' enrollment. Advances at the secondary level has been
outstanding - female enrollment as a percentage o f total enrollment at the secondary level
increased from 33 percent in 1990 to over 50 percentby 2003.

 12.                                                  in the delivery of education. While there are
significant issues regarding the quality o f education, the rapid expansion o f education
opportunities- especially at the secondary and tertiary level -has been mainly through private
providers. As a result, today more than 95 percent o f secondary schools are managedby the
private sector (with government financial support). At the tertiary level, various private
universities have been established and are catering to students with the ability to pay.3

 13.      Demand-side interventions. The government's strategy to promote education for the poor
and girls through demand side interventionshas enhanced access. Two programs provide
subsidies to selected students and their families. The Food for Education(FFE) program
provided grain rations to disadvantaged families ifthey send their children to primary school (it
has been recently replaced by a targeted direct cash-subsidy stipend program and over five
million students are expected to receive the stipend annually). The Female Secondary Stipends
(FSS) program provides stipends and tuition waivers to females residing innon-municipal areas
attending grades VI-X (with close to four million girls receiving stipends annually). While there
are leakages associated with these programs, they have been effective inenhancing access. The
FFEsucceeded insending poor children to school -itis estimated that participationinthe FFE
increased the probability o f attending school by 20 percent. An additional year o f the FSS i s
 estimated to increased female secondary enrollment by as much as eight percent.

 14.      School Choice. Students, especially at the secondary level, have the freedom to attend
the school o f their choice. Hence students, and their parents, can choose among schools on the



  At the primary level, about 10percent of studentsattend NGO schools-however, these are only marginally
 supportedby the government.



                                                          3

 basis o f school quality. However, a constraint to informed decision makingi s the inadequate
 disclosure o f information by the government on school quality and performance.

 Challenges   ...

 15.      Poor Outcomes. Poor quality o f education i s an underlyingtheme which runs across the
 system and i s reflected inpoor outcomes. Attendance rates are low (62 percent), teacher
 absenteeism i s high(up to 20 percent), the curriculum i s o f limitedrelevance, particularly at the
 secondary level, and teacher-pupil contact time i s very low. At the secondary level, less than 40
 percent o f the students pass the standardized examinations at grades 10 and 12. Out o f every 100
 students that enter grade six, less than 10 complete grade 12 owing to highdropout and low
 completion rates.

 16.      Inequitableprovision. Poor children are less likely to be enrolled in school at all levels.
 While there are nearly as many poor children as non-poor children enrolled at the primary level,
 at the junior secondary level (grades 6-8), this proportion drops to 33 percent, and further to
 around 20 percent at the secondary (grades 9-10) and higher secondary (grades 11-12) levels.
 While public expenditures at the primary level are generally pro-poor, only 24 percent o f the
 public secondary education spending i s accessed by the poor (Table 2).

                 Table 2: Distributionof Public and PrivateExpenditures on Education
                                                By quintile                       By poverty
-___                                                                                status
                                  1         2       3        4      5 (highest) Poor    Non-       Total
                               (lowest)                                                  poor

 Per-capitaexpenditure            8        12      16       22          42      26        74       100%
 Private educationspending        3         7      12       25          52       15       86       100%

 Public educationspending         12       15      17       23          32      35        65       100%
    Primaryeducation              22       23      22       19          14      56        44       100%
    Secondary                      6       11      16       28          40      24        76       100%
    Tertiary                       6        6      10       21          57       17       83       100%
 Source: Public Expenditure Review (2002)

  The Causes   ...

  17.      Poor Governance. Governance i s a key constraint on improving the quality o f education
  and this problem cuts across all levels of education. Accountability and incentive mechanisms
  and, checks and balances for teachers and administrators are weak. Rent seeking i s pervasive,
  from civil works constructionto textbook development and production. MOPME and MOE do
  not have sufficient capacity to monitor the quality o f instruction. Information about student and
  school performance, while collected, i s rarely available to the public - denying stakeholders an
  important tool with which to monitor schools. Misgovemance inareas such as teacher
  recruitment, training, assignment to schools, salary payments and supervision are factors behind
  the low motivation on the part o f the teachers and lead to highrates o f absenteeism. While
  community involvement ineducation has been increasing, no significant power has yet been
  devolved to communities or local governments at either the primary or secondary levels.

  18,      Inappropriate Financing. On the positive side, Bangladesh's public policy and
  expenditures have consistently emphasized education, and the sharp increases ineducation
  spending that occurred duringthe mid-1990s have been sustained. Education i s by far the largest


                                                    4

recipient o f budgetary funds incombined development and recurrentbudgets. Education
expenditures are currently about 2.2 percent o f GDP and 15-16 percent o f total government
spending. While these expenditures are still relatively low as comparedto international
standards, the main issue seems to be that a significant share o f the expenditures i s directed at
teachers' salaries and salary-related subsidies to institutions. Salaries and salary-related subsidies
account for 97 percent and 80 percent o frecurrent expenditure at the primary and secondary
levels respectively, leaving little resources to be spent on teaching and learningmaterials -
countries with better education outcomes usually spend about 30 percent on learning materials at
the secondary level.

19.      Lack of coordination between Primary and Secondary. An area o f continuing concern i s
the lack o f effective coordination between MOPMEand MOE. International experience points to
the necessity o f close linkages betweenprimary and secondary education. The quality o f one
system affects the other   - graduates from primary education are inputsinto the secondary
education system, and teachers inprimary school are usually drawn from secondary education
graduates. There i s large potential for synergies which would help to rationalize and strengthen
the entire system, especially in areas where the same institutions are usedby both ministries(e.g.
National Curriculum and Textbook Board). Inorder to engender greater collaboration, a
coordination committee between the two ministries - chaired by the Principal Secretary to the
Prime Minister   - has recently been established, but its effectiveness i s likely to be hampered
unless there i s substantial commitment on the part o f both ministries. Furthermore, a National
Advisory Committee on EducationReforms has been constitutedunder the chairmanship o fthe
Minister o f Education and tasked with developing an integratednational educationpolicy. This
committee has just completed a draft report and the recommendationsare consistent with those
being presented inthis document.

20.      The following section provides information on the main achievements and challenges
facing the secondary education sub-sector.



                 III.ChallengesFacingtheSecondaryEducationSub-sector

21.      Secondary education inBangladesh i s divided into two levels -lower secondary (grades
6-10) and higher secondary (grades 11-12). Over eight million students are enrolled inclose to
25,000 secondary schools (Table 3). Over the past two decades, coverage and access to
secondary education have increased significantly - enrollments injunior secondary and
 secondary education increased at an annual rate o f about 10 percent and over 50 percent o f
students at the secondary level are now girls.

22.      An extraordinary feature o fBangladesh's secondary educationsystem is that most
 secondary schools are privately managed. These institutions are, according to law, not-for-profit
institutions with a school management committee overseeing their administration. However, they
receive substantial government subsidies - 90 percent o f salaries for teachers, and block grants
 for construction and maintenance o f schools. The Ministryo f Education is responsible for
monitoring the utilization of these subsidies.




                                                    5

Non-government     1          2654              I     10.72      I 38900    1 15.25  I   479989    I  5.02   I  43.17
                   I                            I                I          I        I             I         I




23.     As noted earlier, Bangladeshhas made significant strides inenrollments insecondary
education. This i s reflected inFigure 1, which shows enrollments at the secondary level have
more than tripled since 1980. What i s especially laudable is the growth ingirls enrollments -
from about 600,000 in 1980 to close to five million by 2003. Girls now constitute about 53
                                                                                 percent of enrollment at the
I                   Figure 1:Enrollment and Schools (19110-2000)                  secondary level. Over the same
                                                                                  time period, the number o f
                                                                                  secondary education institutions
                                                                                  has also doubled.

                                                                                  24.     However, significant
                                                                                  challenges still remain-both in
                                                                                  terms o f access and particularly in
                                                                                  terms of the quality o f education.
                                                                                  Enrollment rates remain low -
                                                                                  especially at the higher secondary
                                                                                  levels (Table 4) and quality i s
                                                                                  poor. Completion rates are
                                                                                  probably the best (even if
                                                                                  imperfect) proxies for education
quality. The picture here i s quite dismal. While completion rates ingrades 6-8 are high-mainly
due to the fact that examinations are school-based - they drop sharply at higher levels, where
standardized examinations are undertaken.



 Grades           GrossEnrollment Rate (%)                         Net Enrollment Rate (%)       Completion Rate ("?)
                      Total                     Female               Total         Female         Total      Female
 6-8                  60.40                       65.77              52.79          57.47        81.30        83.20
 9-10                 44.18                       45.28              32.93          33.69        48.40        46.60
 11-12                17.10                       13.20              13.89          10.55         56.20       57.40



 25.    The completion rates inTable 4 refer to the completion amongindividuals who have
 appeared inthe standardized examinations. The true completionrate-i.e. pass rate inthe SSC
 (grade 10) and HSC (grade 12) standardized examinations - as a proportion o f students who are
 enrolled ingrade 10 and grade 12respectively i s significantly lower (Figure 2). The number o f



                                                                   6

studentswho appear inthe standardized examinations is often significantly lower than those who
are enrolled in grades 10 and 12 because many students fail inthe school-based screening
examination to determine their eligibility to take the SSC and HSC examinations. Figure 2 also
shows that there has beenno upward trend inthe SSC and HSC examination results over the past
decade.
                                                                      Fi(",,2: P".*.tn  ,n.lic W l * * C E..rmn*ia.,,WIaw,,


26.      Poor system quality i s directly
related to the lack o f effective
governance, with limitedaccountability
or autonomy. There i s little
accountability o f either teachers to
students and school management
committees; or o f school management
to government. Under the broad
umbrella o f governance, key constraints
                                                                      OTolaI(SSC) Okmale(SSC)ClT~lDl(HSC) BFemde(HSC1
arise inthe areas of: system
management; teacher effectiveness; and textbooks and c u r r i ~ u l u mThese constrains are  . ~
discussed inmore detail below.

System Management

Non-enforcement of School Establishment and Registration criteria                            ...

27.      Approval for settingup a private school i s given by the Department o f Secondary and
Higher Education (DSHE)' for junior secondary schools (grades 6-8) and by the Board o f

I                                                                        Intermediateand Secondary
                    Figuril: Schools and Subwntlon Amountl               Education (grades 9 and above).6
    2.-         . . . .. . . . .      . . .     -    . .   ,_ .- .
                                                                         There are fairly comprehensive
                                                                         criteria for granting approval relating
                                                                         to distance from nearest school, land,
                                                                         number o f students, the physical state
 f                                                                        o f the classrooms and library,
 L                                                                        laboratory equipment, teacher
                                                                          qualifications etc.. Once the school

    z -                                                                   has been inexistence for three years,

   195 i                                                                  itbecomes eligible for recognition-
                                                                          i.e. receiving government subsidies.
                                                                          Recognition i s governedby the
                                                                           criteria mentioned above, along with
                                                                          the performance inthe standardized
grade 10 (SSC) examinations -at least 50 percent o f students should have passed the SSC
examination.




  See also Bangladesh: Education Sector Review. World Bank (2000)
 The DSHEi s the main agency for implementing government policies in secondaryeducation.
 Five regular, geographically-based BISE exist (Dhaka, Comilla, Rajshahi, Jessore and Chittagong). BISE'Sare
mainly responsiblefor two functions: accreditation o f non-govemment secondaryinstitutions; and administration o f the
 SSC and HSC examinations.


                                                               7

28.        Inpractice these criteriaare rarely enforced. There are only alimitednumber of
personnel involved ininspecting schools and monitoring the approval process.' Given the sharp
increase in the number o f secondary schools that have been set up over the past few years (Figure
3), increasingpressure has been placedon officials at the zonal and district levels who are
required to inspect the schools for approval and/or recognition. There are few o f these and there
i s little scope to spend time with those setting up schools, checking that all criteria are fulfilled
and making a measured decision on approval. Furthermore, there are repeated instances o f
political interference - with influence being exerted on MOEto relax the criteria. This has ledto
many o f the schools that have been approved and recognizedbeing o f dubious quality                    - overthe
past five years, close to 100percent o f the schools that have been set up have been recognized.
However, inabout half these schools, the pass rates inthe SSC examinations were below 50
percent.

Non-transparency infinancing of schools...

29.        Once a school i s recognized, it receives monthly government subventions. This system
(known as the Monthly Pay Order (MPO) system), was begun inthe 1970s and prescribes a fixed
and uniform proportion of salary grants to be extended to all non-governmentalteachers and
employees o f all recognizededucational institutions. The present system o f subvention grants
started out at 50 percent o f the initial step o f the national pay scale, and has subsequently
increased. The government now finances 90 percent o f the salaries o f teaching staff innon-
government schools. To ensure that schools have an incentive to maintain highlevels o f
performance, the subventions are supposed to be linked to performance criteria (mainly the
results o f standardized examinations). Financingi s supposed to be withdrawn if schools do not
meet the minimumperformance criteria for a period o f five years.

30.        Inpractice, once schools attain eligibility to receivethe MPO,subsidies flow regardless
o f performance. This i s demonstrated by the fact that between 1999-2003, less than two percent
o f schools have had their subventions suspended. Information on school performance in
standardized examinations i s not readily available -hence stakeholders do not know how schools
are performing. They are hence unable to have informed discussions with school managers on
quality and performance, and schools faces little pressure to rigorously observe regulations
governing the linkage o f subventions with performance.

 Centralization of Authority...

3 1.       Onpaper, the organizationalstructure o fMOE appears appropriate, with adequate
autonomy and accountability built inboth at the central level as well as lower levels to effectively
manage and monitor the system. However, practices differ from this design. The planning wing
o f the MOEremains weak, and an important lacunae i s the inadequate use o f data in
policymaking. Capacity to diagnose the source o f performance problems accurately or to
monitor the consequences o f any policy changes which attempt to improve performancei s
limited.

32.        Even when the capacity exists, - e.g. inthe Education EngineeringDepartment (EED),'
personnel lack adequate professional skills for quality assurance and standards setting for civil

'TheDirectorateof   Inspectionand Audit (DIA), within DSHE undertakesongoingqualitative andquantitative
evaluationof non-governmentschools. However, it has only 12 inspectorsand 12 assistant inspectors to monitor
secondaryinstitutions,leadingto the staff visit institutionsinfrequently.
* The   main responsibilityof the EED is to monitor the constructionof civil works for secondary education. However,it
has becomeheavily involved in constructinginfrastructure.



                                                            8

works, leading to poor quality school construction. There are also significant flaws with
procurement practices inthe EED.

33.       While decentralization i s an objective o f the Government, little real shift inauthority
and/or decision-making has taken place - especially to the school level. There are few staff at
zonal and district levels to monitor, evaluate, inspect and audit schools. There are no permanent
staff at the upazila level. While the last 10 years have seen a rapid increase inthe number o f
secondary schools, this lack o f capacity has ledto reduced school supervision and the inability to
monitor school performance.

34.       Bangladeshhas an institutionalized mechanism for community participation in its
educational system. School managing committees (SMCs) are required inall recognizednon-
government secondary schools (grades 6-10) and Governing Boards (GBs) inhigher secondary
schools/intermediate colleges (grades 11-12) - see B o x 1 for composition and responsibilities.
While it i s unrealistic to assume that these bodies have the expertise to monitor teaching quality,
they can have a critical role to play inthe hiring o f teachers, monitoring school performance, and
the presence o f students and teachers during school hours. These functions become even more
crucial given the lack o f government capacity below the central level.
1   Box 1: School Management Committee's (SMCs) CompositionandResponsibilities
                                                              -

  According to the 1977Board of Intermediate and SecondaryEducation (BISE) regulations governing
  the formation of SMC's, they are electedfor a three year term. They serve at the pleasureof the BISE
  andcanbe dissolved on the recommendation of the Director of DSHEon grounds of inefficiency,
  financial irregularity or mismanagement. The membershipof the SMCs consists of:
       a chairman-the deputy commissioner, anupazila nirbahi officer, or a local distinguished person;
       amember-secretary    - theheadmaster/headmistressof the school;
       ninemembers-two teachersto beelectedbyteachers ofthe school, four guardians to be elected
       from among the student guardians, one founder to be elected by founders, one donor to be elected
       by the donors, and one person interestedineducation to be nominated by DSHE.

  Among their functions, SMC's have the authority to:
       raise funds and create endowments for the school;
       appoint, suspend, dismiss andremove teachers and ensure regular payment of teachers salaries;
       approve annualbudgets including the development budget and examinethe monthly financial
       statements.
       monitor school performance, teacher and student attendance.

1      The composition andresponsibilities of GB's are fairly similar to that ofthe SMCs.


 35.      However, the SMCs and GBs are often composed predominantly o f male elites - e.g.
 members o f parliament and politicians routinely chair 20-30 S M W G B s and often use this
 position for political gaidfavor (especially inhiringteachers). The political interference has led
 to an apparent lack o f interest o f community members and guardians to participate inSMCs/GBs
 -theyaregenerallyreluctanttoplayanactiverole. Thishasunderminedtheaccountabilityof
 the school towards the community.

 Lack of Information Dissemination and Evaluation of Performance           ...

 36.      BANBEIS (Bangladesh Bureau o f Educational Statistics) produces valuable and good
 quality data on a regular basis on secondary and higher education and has recently completed a
 comprehensive school mapping exercise which provides information on school facilities,


                                                      9

teachers, and results o f standardized examinations. However, there i s limited coordination
between BANBEIS and the planning unit inMOE, leading to data not being effectively used for
planning. Furthermore, M O E has not adequately focused on the evaluation o f program
performance and feeding those results into decision-making. Finally, there i s little dissemination
o f information to stakeholders -parents, students, and school management -which would allow
them to compare their schools with other schools.

Teacher Effectiveness

Poor Conditions of Employment...




recruited as civil servants through the                          FigurnI: T.rh.n inS r o n d y Sshooi.

Public Services Commission and
deployedby the government. Most
teachers, who are inprivate schools, are
recruited directly by the school. The
appointments procedure i s clearly laid out
ingovernment rules andregulationsand
the SMC i s responsible for supervising the
appointments procedure. The process
includes placing an advertisement inthe
press, an examination for all candidates,
and teaching o f a demonstration class.

38.      The system o f hiringinprivate schools i s open to abuse and rent-seeking. A combination
o f the lack o f MOE's monitoring capacity, and inadequate community/parental participation in
SMC's/GB's has contributed to frequent violation o f hiringpractices. As schools need funds for
runningcosts they request 'donations' fromthose wishingto teach at the school. Poorer, better-
qualified applicants are overlooked in favor o f candidates who can contribute to the school's
finances. Pressure i s also put on the school to appoint relatives o f Managing Committee
memberdchairpersonor those inpowerful positions within the community.

39.       Ingovernment schools, teachers are paid accordingto the civil service pay scale. In
private schools, teachers' incomes are supplemented through payments made over and above the
90 percent subvention paidby the government. This amount varies considerably- at one extreme
a few schools pay over 100percent more than the subventionpaidby the government, while at
the other - and more frequent - extreme, schools do not pay any additional amount. Furthermore,
the government's contribution i s fixed at the lowest level o f the salary scale and rarely increases
over time -hence, many years pass before a teacher receives a salary increase. Given these
conditions, teachers often resort to supplementing their income - either through private tutoring
or through activities unrelated to teaching - leading to highrates o f teacher absenteeism and low
quality o f teaching duringschool hours.

 Uneven Teacher Training/Standards...

40.       Effective pre-service and in-service teacher training are key to developing better teachers.
There are currently about 70 public and private institutions providingteacher training. The



                                                  10

annual output from these institutions i s about 7000-8000. This capacity i s insufficient to meet the
needs o f the system and these institutionsprovide training o f variable quality. The National
Academy o f Educational Management (NAEM) i s responsible for overseeing teacher training.
While NAEMhas begun to take steps towards developing common teaching standards, it needs to
ensure that teacher training institutions apply these standards uniformly.

Textbooks and Curriculum

Ineffective National Curriculum and TextbookBoard (NCTB) ...

41.       The National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) became fully functional inJuly
1984. N C T B i s responsible for developingcurriculum and publishingand distributingstandard
textbooks. Its two professional wings -the curriculum and textbook units, respectively -
correspond to these two purposes. Most o f the effort i s concentrated on the textbook production
cycle. The NCTBproduces some 55 million primary and 26 million secondary texts annually and
i s fully self-financing (from the textbook production revenues and publishingroyalties).

42.       As the curriculum and textbook wings operate indifferent fields, they require specialist
staff with completely different skills. Inother countries where the state i s responsible for both
curriculum and textbooks, the equivalent entities are more often than not entirely independent o f
one another and staffed with qualified professionals. InBangladesh, the demarcation betweenthe
two wings i s blurred and there i s a substantial degree o f overlap -with the curricula wing staff
often performing duties that the textbook wing are supposed to undertake.

Lack of Transparency in Manuscript Approval and TextbookProduction...

43.       An important role o fNCTB is the approval o ftextbook manuscripts. However, the
manner inwhich NCTB evaluates manuscripts i s not transparent. This applies particularly to
private sector publishers involved inthe limited amount o f competitive biddingopen to them.
Criteria and ratings in the selection process are not made public, nor are they made available to
the author submittinga manuscript.

44.       Textbook publishingfor grades 11and 12 has been opened to competition amongst
private sector publishers, and these textbooks are writtenby individual authors, published and
printed commercially and distributed through bookshops. NCTB's sole responsibility i s
 approving the content o f the winning titles. While this process has run into some problems, it i s
 working fairly effectively.

 45.      However, N C T B still controls the publishingo f textbooks below grade 11- publishing
 and printingare undertaken by firms chosen by NCTBwithout recourse to a competitive process.
 The lack o f competition leads to rent-seeking behavior, and is responsible for poor textbook
 quality, highproduction costs, and unavailability o f textbooks to schools ina timely manner.


            IV. The Government's Reform Agenda and Bank and Donor Support

 46.      The Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreed with the
 IMFand the WorldBank, providesfor the maintenance o f sustainable fiscal deficits andtargets
 an acceleration inthe rate o f economic growth. Fiscal projections are consistent with




                                                   11

Bangladesh's reform needs, with increasedrevenue mobilization and better prioritized
expenditures being central elements o f the budget strategy over the medium term (Table 5).9

47.      Onthe expenditure side, the medium-term expenditure framework is expected to continue
Bangladesh's long standing tradition o f emphasizing investment inthe social sectors. For FY04,
the education sector continued to get highpriority. However, the government has clearly
recognized the need for reforms ineducation to ensure that these resources are spent cost-
effectively and lead to an improvement in the quality o f education.

48.      The Government's overarching goal, as articulated in the I-PRSP, i s to substantially
reduce chronic poverty and invigorate social development inthe shortest possible time. In
addition to specifying social targets in line with the country's MDGs, the I-PRSP commits the
authorities to reduce the proportion o f population livingbelow the poverty line by 50 percent by
the year 2015. The strategy recognizes the need for acceleration o f economic growth as the
engine to drive down poverty.

49.      Given the strong linkages betweenpoverty reduction, achievement o f the MDGgoals,
and human capital development, a major emphasis o f the Govemment's strategy articulated inthe
I-PRSP i s the development o f highquality education and health services, especially for the poor.
Addressing the issue o f a widening "quality divide" ineducationbetweenthe rich and the poor as
well as ensuring the enhanced access of the poor to education, represent two critical areas where
improvements need to take place. The I-PRSP states that these issues can be tackled through a
radically improved system o f education system governance, coupled with higher and better
targeted expenditures.




Money and Credit                                                End of year; percent change
Domestic Credit                                  11.9               8         I  11.4  I   12.4    I     11.8


  The Government's overall medium-termframework is well enunciated inthe DevelopmentSupportCredit document.
It is summarizedin Annex B. Annex Eprovidesmore details on the financing for the educationsector over the
medium-term.



                                                    12

Source: Bangladesh Development Support Credit (2004) and Government Documents

Operatioizalization of the I-PRSP: TheMedium-Term Strategyfor Education

50.       To operationalize the I-PRSP, the Government has finalized its medium-term strategies
for bothprimary and secondary education. The focus o f the strategies i s to enhance the quality o f
and ensure equitable access to education. They provide policy directions, specify targets to be
attained, and recommend specific actions required to attain these targets inthe next five years.

51.       On the primary education side, the Ministryo f Primary and Mass Education (MOPME),
supported by 11development partners including IDA (with ADB as the lead development
partner), has recently begun implementing the Primary EducationDevelopment Program - PEDP
11. This program represents MOPME'svision for primary education over the next six years and is
designed to provide a policy framework and implementationplan for the development o f primary
education. It focuses on strategies to improve the quality o f primary education as well as
enhancing access for the disadvantaged. The specific objectives o f the program are to: (a)
improve the quality o f teaching and learning, and enhance student achievement; (b) enhance
access to schooling for the disadvantaged and provide incentivesto teachers to perform better;
(c) strengthen planning and management o f primary education; and (d) establish a nation-wide
monitoring and evaluation system.

52.       Withrespect to secondary education, the MOEconvened a 51-member experts committee
in2002 to recommendareas for reforminthe sector. The committee's recommendationsaim at
establishing a cost-effective, highquality and equitable education system through governance
reforms. To flesh out these recommendations, MOE commissioned in-depth studies inselected
areas which were completed during2003. Based on this information, as well as relevant work
undertaken by development partners, MOEhas finalized a medium-term framework. The
development o f this framework has benefited from an extensive range o f consultations/workshops
with government officials and other stakeholders at the central, zonal and district levels during
the past few months. Some of the main elements o f this strategy include (key actions are
highlighted inBox 2):''

     Increasing accountability of seconday schools both to the government and to the community.
     Reforms inthese areas will include rigorously enforcing criteria governing the establishment
     o f institutions, and setting up institutional mechanisms for linkingschool subventions to

''TheMedium    Terni Prioritiesfor TheDevelopment of Secondary and Higher Education in Bangladesh. Ministry of
Education, GovernmentofBangladesh(2003).



                                                       13

objective measures o f school performance. The strategy also calls for strengthening school
management committees to give them greater responsibility regarding school supervision.
Enhancing equity in access. Demand-side interventionsproviding scholarships to girls in
secondary school will continue. Means-testing mechanisms will be piloted to better target
these subsidies to the poor. Incentives will be provided to the private sector to set up
institutions inunderserved areas.
Administration/Capacity Building -MOE's planning and policy making capacity will be
strengthened and greater implementation responsibility will be devolved to lower levels o f
government. The role o f communities inmanaging schools will be strengthened.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination. MOEwill place significantly greater emphasis
on program evaluation and monitoring to guide policy. BANBEIS's capacity i s being
enhanced to conduct public expenditure tracking surveys, and to supervise the impact
evaluation o f programs implementedby MOE. Information on standardized examination
outcomes, school performance, and on program effectiveness will be disseminated widely.
Improving teachers' quality through emphasis on teacher recruitment and training. An
autonomous Non-government Teachers' Registration and Certification Agency will be
established, which will have the responsibility for developing a roster o f pre-qualified and
certified individuals who are eligible to be hiredas teachers inprivate schools. An apex
institution will be set up to be responsible for the management o f teacher training and
regulate training institutions.
Reducing opportunityfor corruption and misuse ofpublic resources in textbookproduction
and making curriculum more relevant and demand-driven. Textbook production will be fully
privatized as NCTB's role inpublishingtextbooks will cease. NCTBwill only have
oversight over a transparent process o f textbook evaluation and approval. The curriculum
wing o fNCTB will be strengthenedto enable it to performits functions more effectively.




                                              14

                                 Box 2: MOE'sReformAgenda Over the Next FiveYears

         Some of the key elements o fMOE's proposedreformagenda are summarized here. They include reforms currently being
undertaken. MOE's plans for reforms inthe next 1-2years, and theninthe slightly longer-term o f 3-5 years are also highlighted
here. These actions not only buildon current reforms, butalso extend reforms into other areas (e.g. examinations, curriculum,
vocational education and training) which are critical for the development of an effective secondary and vocational education system.

System Management

Reform actions currently underway:
 Establishment/equity - Enforcing criteria goveming the establishment andregistrationo f institutions;
0Financing - Rigorous enforcement o f MPO criteria;
 AdministratiodCapacity Building, Devolution and Participation - Upgrading of planning capacity at the center; setup
  districthpazila committees; Amending composition o f SMCsiGBs to ensure greater community participation;
 Monitoring and Evaluation -Enhancing capacity o fBANBEIS, dissemination o f information on school quality.

Actionsplanned in the next 1-2years:
  Estabhhment/equity-Establishing new schools inunderserved areas, piloting means-basedstipend schemes;
  Financing -Revision o f MPO criteria to better tie to performance, financing o fpublic vocational institutions linkedto
  performance inexaminations;
  Administration/Capacity Building, Devolution and Participation -Rationalizing o f EED, examination systemreforms instituted;
  30% o f SMCs elected using revisedrules;
  Monitoring and Evaluation-Expenditure tracking surveys, stipend evaluations, thirdparty program evaluation.

Actions planned in the next 3-5 years:
  Establishment/equity-Enrollmentrises by 50% inunderserved areas; school mapping exercise undertaken;
  Financing -Designand Implementing grants-based financing for secondary level institutions; establishment o fNational
  Vocational Training Board(NVTB) andtraining fundto finance well performing training institutions;
  Administration/Capacity Building, Devolution and Participation -Finalizing action plan for devolution o f functions to
  districtshpazilas; 100%of SMCs elected usingrevisedrules.

Teacher Effectiveness

Reform actions currently underway:
  Employment -Establishingautonomous Non-government Teacher Registrationand Certification Agency; putinplace pension
  scheme for teachers;
   Teacher Training- Ensuring common set o f standards for teachers inpublic andprivate institutions;.

Actionsplanned in the next 1-2years:
  Employment - Finalizing proposal on incentive systemto attract qualified teachers and reward well-performing teachers;
   Teacher Training-Developing revised set of training standards and competencies; initiatingcertification for teacher training
  institutions and for untrainedteachers.

Actionsplanned in the next 3-5years:
  Employment -Instituting incentive scheme for teachers;
   Teacher Training-All teacher training institutionsand 60% untrainedteachers certified.

Curriculum and Textbook Reforms

Reform actions currently underway:
   NCTB- Developing actionplan for NCTBrestructuringjointly with MOPME;
   Textbook approval andprivatization - Instituting transparent criteria for manuscript evaluation; opening up textbook production
   for grades 6-10 to competition.

Actionsplanned in the next 1-2years:
   NCTB -NCTB restructuring plan implemented;revision of curriculumto make it more relevantto needs o fmarket;
   Textbook approval andprivatization- 50% of textbook production for grades 6-10produced competitively.

Actionsplanned in the next 3-5years:
   NCTB - Cumculumwing of NCTB fully financed from MOE's recurrent budget;
   Textbook approval andprivatization - 100%o ftextbook production for grades 6-10 produced competitively.


                                                                   15

53.      Furthermore, analysis has shown that the critical constraint i s not additional resources,
butrather puttinginplace strategies andreformsto enhance the cost-effectiveness o fresource
utilization. In2002/3 the government spent about $500 million on secondary education (revenue
and development budget combined). Under the base case scenario, the budget will rise to about
$600 million by 2007/8 (Table 6, and for a detailed analysis look at Annex E).

54,      Simulations regarding the costs o f implementingreforms aimed at enhancing the quality
and governance o f the system (while increasing enrollments), show that by 2007/8, the system
will require a total investment o f about $596 million (details inAnnex E). This is withinthe
budget projections, implyingthat financial sustainability i s not likely to be an issue.

        Table 6: Secondary Education Expenditure Forecasts(2003-2008) US$ billions
                                                        1 2003/4  1200415   I 2005/6 I 2006/7 I 2007/8
   Total secondarv education budget -base case
                                 -
   scenario                                               0.529     0.543     0.565     0.584     0.607
   Resource Requirements (based on simulations)            0.520    0.539     0.558     0.517     0.596

Bank and Donor Strategy in Education

Bank Lending and Non-LendingProgram

55.      The Bank's assistance strategy ineducation has beenbased on Government priorities, the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and complementarity with other donors. The focus o f
lendinghas beenon increasing access to basic education, and on achieving gender parity at the
primary and secondary levels, which are key to Bangladesh achieving MDGgoals.

56.      A sound understanding o f issues facing the educationsector and strategies to enhance
education quality was provided by a comprehensive education sector review conductedin2000."
The Bank engaged inthe reform dialogue on educationwith the Govemment, which was elected
inOctober 2001. Rapidly respondingto requests fromthe government, policy notes were
completed inareas such as improving secondary education quality, teacher effectiveness,
textbook and curriculum policy, and vocational education and training reform. The World Bank
also undertook a Public Expenditure Review and Poverty Assessment in2002, which highlighted
constraints to improvingaccess and quality o f education and identified policy priorities for
various sub-sectors.12 This analytical work has informed the issues highlighted inSection I1
above and have been usedby MOE for the development o f its Medium Term Framework.

57.      Furthermore, the BangladeshCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS Report, 21326-BD;
2001) stated that consolidating gains inhuman development i s critical for Bangladeshto realize
its aspirationto reduce poverty substantially within a generation. The CAS states that
notwithstanding the impressive gains in education, especially inaccess, improving quality
remains a critical challenge - and shouldbe the focus of the Bank's assistance to Bangladesh.

58.      Inlinewith government's I-PRSP, IDA'Scountry assistance strategy, andthe framework
of reforms envisioned inthe education sector, the Bank's strategy over the next few years will
aim to ensure that progress inaccess are supported by quality improvements to ensure sustainable


"BangladeshEducationSectorReview: VolumesI-III.WorldBank(2000).
'* BangladeshPublic Expenditure Review. World Bank (2002) andPoverty in Bangladesh: Building on Progress.
World Bank (2002).



                                                    16

gains and enhanced levels o f efficiency inthe education system. It will focus onpolicies and
interventions that provide incentives to improve the governance o f the system. The proposed
credit represents a major step inthis direction.

Other Donors

59.      The Bank has continuedto work inclose partnership with other development partners in
support o f developing the education sector inBangladesh. On the primary side, many
development partners (e.g. the ADB, Netherlands, DFID, EU, UNICEF, CIDA and the World
Bank) are working collaboratively inassisting MOPME in developing PEDP 11.

60.      Insecondary education, IDAhasbeen collaborating withADB andNORADinproviding
stipends to female students. ADB has also been very active insupporting curriculum reform,
teacher training and improvement o fphysical facilities. The EUi s financing a program to
employ female teachers inrural secondary schools. Donor agencies (e.g. JICA, EUand ADB)
have also recently completed analytical work on secondary and vocational education which have
pointed to the lack o f governance inthe system as a key constraint to improvingquality. The
ADB is also currently inthe process o f designing an investment operation focused onteacher
training that will aim to implement reforms proposed under the medium-term reform agenda,
which are also being supported by IDA under the proposed credit. Hence, the reforms supported
under the credit are inline with the strategies o f other donors inthe secondary sub-sector.


                    K IDA'SSupport to theMedium-Term Reform Agenda

61.      The proposed credit will support the first phase o f the government's medium-term reform
agenda inthe area of education, primarily focusing on secondary education (see Annex A1 and
A2). Some reforms cut across the primary and secondary sectors and complement actions that are
planned under PEDP 11.

 62.      The objective i s to support M O E in institutingand implementing substantive policy
reforms to enhance governance and improve the quality and relevance o f secondary education.
This credit will focus on system management, teacher effectiveness, andtextbooks. M O Eis
 launching an aggressive social marketing (IEC) campaign with the objective to increasepublic
 awareness, generate public support, and advocate government and stakeholders' actions to
 implement its Medium-Term Strategy for secondary education (see Annex C for details o f IEC
 campaign). The reforms proposed under this program are consonant with the reforms o f the
 broader DSC which focuses on actions that will improve the investment climate and stimulate
 economic growth.

System Management

 63,      The objectives inthis area are to establish greater transparency inthe use and allocation
 o f resources to schools and colleges, increase the accountability o f non-government institutions to
 funding authorities and local stakeholders, and develop a more devolved and efficient system o f
 management of the education system, with greater stakeholder involvement.

 Improved enforcement in Establishment/Registration of Schools...

 64.      Recognizing its limited capacity to effectively monitor private secondary school
 establishment and registration, MOE i s beginning implementation o f an approach where


                                                    17

competitively selected independent private sector service providers will be entrusted with the
responsibility o f evaluating the readiness o f schools/colleges for establishment or recognition,
based on criteria that have been established by MOE. While DSHE and BISE will remain
responsible for overseeing this process (and conducting random inspections), service provider
reports will become the primarybasis for school establishment and registration. The
effectiveness o f this approach will be evaluated on a regular basis and the design will be modified
accordingly.

Greater transparency infinancing schools...

65,       The process through which schools are financed are being enforced more rigorously.
1300 poorly performing institutionshave been informed that their MPO subventions will be
stopped within one year unless they improve performance. MPO's are also not being issued to
new institutions untilthey can demonstrate that they meet performance criteria. A series o f
further actions are being undertaken to enhance transparency:
0    The MPO system i s being revised to clearly link subventions for teachers salaries to
     outcomes on standardized examinations for grades 10 and 12 (see discussion inparagraph
     below on potential reforms to the examination system). It i s being proposedthat poorly
     performing schools (withless than 40 percent students passing standardized examinations in
     grades 10 and 12) will be given a two-year period inwhich to improve their performance,
     failing which the subventions will cease. Well performing schools (with greater than 75
     percent passing in standardized examinations) will have their subventions increase by 20
     percent for the next two years;
0    Standardized examinations in select subjects - English,Mathematics, Bangla, and Science -
     are being instituted at the grade eight level - and have already beenpiloted intwo districts.
     This will ensure that financing for lower secondary schools will be linkedto performance
     usingthe same criteria as for grades 10and 12 above. Furthermore, to assess the quality o f
     incoming students into the secondary cycle, grade six entrance examinations are being
     instituted and have been undertaken in all districts; and
0    Results o f grade 8, 10 and 12 standardized examinations, and the names o f schools not
     meeting performance criteria, are being published and disseminated nationally to ensure that
     stakeholders have complete information about school performance.

66.       To ensurethat the standardized examinations actually measure student learning, the
Government i s also taking steps to reform the examination system -both interms o f the content
o f the examinations as well as to curb cheating. As a first step, more effective monitoringand
supervision at examination centers has led to a reduction in cheating in examinations at both the
grade 10 and 12 levels. The National Education Committee on EducationReforms has also been
entrusted with the task o f proposing examination system reforms and will finalize its'
recommendations by late 2004. At the primary level, as part o f PEDP 11, a NationalAssessment
Center will be established to carry out regular assessments o f Grade 3 and Grade 5 students
beginning in 2005/6, and examination system reforms at the secondary level will emphasize a
greater reliance on developing a more effective system o f student assessment.

67.       Withinthe next few years, MOE is planning to shiftto a grants-based financing system,
where resources going to institutions will be linked more closely to student enrollment. Under
this scheme, schoolswill not directly receive salaries for teachers but will be given tuition grants
- that can be usedto pay teachers as well as for other quality-enhancing purposes. The grants will
be linked to the number of students, examination performance, and teacher and student
attendance. Movingtowards such a system will enhance flexibility o f schools to choose the mix
between salaries and teaching related inputs.


                                                   18

Enhanced equity in access..       .

68.       Concern has been expressed that the tightening o f criteria regarding school financing and
registration may lead to greater inequity in access, with the poorer areas being the most adversely
affected. MOE i s cognizant o f this and i s rationalizing its processes to ensure that students in
`under-served' areas have increased access to ed~cation.'~ this end, BANBEIS undertook a
                                                                        To
school mapping in 2002. This i s being used to:
    identify upazilas which are `overserved' -inthese upazilas no new schools and colleges will
    be subsidizedby the government for two years; and
0   identify `underserved' upazilas - in such upazilas, MOE i s developing plans to set up
    government schools, as well as offer incentives to private providers to set up/expand schools.
    Within the next4-5 years, enrollments inthese underservedupazilas i s expected to riseby 50
    percent.

69.       This situation will bereassessedon aregularbasis through BANBEIS school mapping
exercises that will be undertaken every three year^.'^ Furthermore, beginning inthe 2005
academic year, M O E i s going to pilot targeting the female secondary education stipend to poor
families, in order to ensure that girls from poor households have increased access to educational
opportunities at the secondary level.

Improved administration and monitoring and evaluation                ...

70.       MOE i s aiming to movetowards a devolved system o f governance, where the central
government will be responsible for formulating policies, financing, setting quality standards, and
monitoring and evaluation and lower levels o f government will be responsible for administering
the system andmonitoring school performance.

71.       MOE's planning unit's capacity i s beingenhancedby appointingpeople with appropriate
technical skills, and the linkages between this unit and BANBEIS are being strengthened. The
emphasis on monitoring and evaluation i s being increased significantly - MOE i s instituting
periodic surveys to track outcomes and public expenditures, rigorous evaluations of the female
stipend program are going to be undertaken with a view to improve program design and
effectiveness, and the efficacy o f policy reforms will be evaluated on a regular basis.15
Additionally, as mentioned above, dissemination of information on the access to and quality o f
secondary education is also being emphasized.

Greaterparticipation of communities in school management and devolution of authority                       ...

72.       Inthe current centralized structure, it is imperativeto empower SchoolManagement
Committees (SMCs) or college governing bodies (GBs), as they are the only entities that exist at
the local levelto monitor schools, especially on aspects relatedto the attendance o f teachers and
students, upkeep o fphysical infrastructure, and performance in examinations. The Regulations
on Managing Committees o f the Registered Non-Government Secondary Schools are being
amended to ensure that only the deputy commissioners, upazila nirbahi officers, or retired


 I3Broadly speaking, `overserved' upazilashave asignificantly higher densityof schools than would be prescribed
based on the regulationsfor the establishment of new non-govemmentschools and colleges.
 I4Criteriaused to define `overserved' and `underserved' areas will be reassessedat the time of the school mapping
exercise to ensure that they adequatelyaddress the requirements of disadvantagedgroups who have limited access to
secondarveducation.
 l5MOPMEhas also agreed to undertakeexpendituretracking surveys and evaluate the primary stipendprogramas part
of PEDP 11.



                                                          19

government officials nominatedby them, can chair SMCs/GBs, and that any particular individual
(other than deputy commissioners or upazilanirbahi officers) cannot chair any more than four
committees. All upcoming SMCs/GBs elections will follow these rules. As the tenure of these
bodies i s three years - within three years, all SMC's/GB's inBangladeshwill be elected using
these new procedures. This - along with reforms on teacher hiringdiscussedbelow - will
significantly reduce the problem o f "elite capture" o f these bodies and engender greater
community participation inthe runningo f schools and colleges (see Annex D).

73.      Even though any significant delegation o f authority to lower levels o f government i s
unlikely to occur in the short-run, planning i s underway for the eventual devolution to the district
and upazila levels. Inthe immediate future, MOEi s empowering officials at the district and
upazila levels to take greater responsibility inmonitoring school performance. To this end, in
March2003, the Prime Minister has authorized the establishment o f district and upazila advisory
committees with the authority to monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure o f
information (e.g. SSC passing rates, teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.) related to school
quality. These committees have now been established. To ensure that these committees are
broadly representative and effective, they are chairedby the Deputy Commissioner and the
Upazila Nirbahi Officers, respectively, and will be composed o f staff o f various government
agencies at the local levels.'6

Teacher Effectiveness

74.      The objective o f this reform i s to develop a transparent and high-quality system o f
teacher recruitment and teacher training guided by agreed criteria and standards. While it i s
difficult to improve the quality o f all teachers inthe short-term, it i s possible to begin tackling the
problem o f teacher absenteeism, stop poorly qualified teachers from entering the system, and
establish a more effective system o f pre-service training.

Transparency in employment          ...

75.       To ensure standardized and transparent criteria are adhered to inthe recruitment o f
teachers, MOE i s establishing an autonomous Non-government Teachers' Registration and
Certification Agency (NTRCA). The main function o f this agency will be to screen, and certify a
pool o f qualified teachers for nn-government schools. All schools that receive an MPO will have
to recruit new teachers from the pool selected by the agency (teachers currently inthe system will
be `grandfathered' but have to become certified - see below). The certification will be based on
academic qualifications and a standardized examination conducted on an annual basis. The list o f
certified teachers will be published and made available to all schools. SMCs/GBs will still retain
the authority and flexibility to recruit teachers, but these teachers will have to be selected from
the pre-qualifiedpool. The formal establishment o f this agency will be approvedby Parliament
and it i s expected to be fully functional in2005."

76.       Not only will this reform ensure that teachers meet basic entry standards, it will also
significantly reduce the scope for corruption and nepotism inthe selection o f teachers.
Furthermore, given that one of the main causes o f `elite capture' o f SMCs/GBs i s that rents are



I6Similar reform measuresare beingcontemplated for primary educationby MOPME. As part of PEDP 11, MOPME is
undertakingan organizationalanalysis which will help identify the key functionsthat needto be devolvedto the
School, Upazila, and District levels. The processo f devolution is anticipatedto commence in2005.
l7This solution i s beingdiscussedwith MOPME to explorethe possibility of standardizationin the hiringof teacher
across the secondaryas well as primary levels.



                                                          20

being obtained in the process o f teacher recruitment, this reform i s also likely to reduce the
incentives for local elites to undulyinfluence selection o f SMCs/GBs.

77.       Recognizingthat recruitment o f poor quality teachers i s linked to their l o w remuneration,
and redressing a long-standing demand o f private sector teacher unions, Parliament passed
legislation granting pensions to private secondary school teachers. Inparallel, MOEi s also
developing a time-bound action plan addressing issues surrounding the provision o f incentives to
teachers which it expects to implement by 2005/6.

Consolidationof teacher training          ...

78.       The National Academy o f EducationManagement(NAEM) hasbeen formally identified
as the apex secondary education teacher training organization. NAEMhas been given the
responsibility for developingteacher training policies as well as coordinating and regulating
teacher training institutions.'* The functions that NAEMi s tasked with include:
0     Certification o f teacher training institutions. The certification o f public and private teacher
      training institutions will be completed during2005;
      Development o f teaching standards. These will feed into revision o f teacher training
      curricula;
      Certification o f existing teachers. This process will be completed over the next five years.

79.       Interms ofteacher standards development, as a first step teachers standards inthe private
and public sector are being harmonized, and private schools will adopt standards already inplace
for government secondary schools. MOE, inconsultation with stakeholders, i s beginning a
process o f reforming and upgrading the current standards, including developing a core framework
 o f standards specifying the minimumlevel competencies for all teachers. This framework is
 expected to be implementedin2005, and will be used inthe process o f teacher certification.

 Textbooks and Curriculum

 80.       While NCTB falls under the authority o f MOE, it i s infact responsible for curriculum
 development and textbook production at both the primary and secondary levels. Reforms
 proposedhere are beingjointly developed by MOE and MOPME. The main objective i s to move
 NCTB out o fthe business o ftextbook production andpublishingand focus on curriculum
 development. Reforms are expected to lead to improved transparency inthe selection and
 approval o f textbooks, competitive production o f better quality textbooks ina cost-effective and
 timely manner, and enhanced emphasis on curriculum development.

 Separation of curriculum developmentand textbookproduction...

 81.       A restructuringplan for NCTBhasbeendraftedwhich aims to demarcate the functions o f
 the textbook and curriculum units. The curriculum wing will focus on activities that include
 identifying subjects and syllabi; preparing, testing, revising and disseminating curriculum
 documents; providing training inthe application o f curriculum; liaising with NAEWAPE on
 the treatment of curriculum inteacher training; and liaising with experts in examinations and
 assessment on the coverage o f curriculum inboth areas. Unlike at present - the curriculum wing
 will not be involved inthe process o f textbook approval; the writing o ftextbooks; and the
 provision o f textbooks. The textbook wing will remain responsible for textbook development,

 '' Similarfunctions are beingenvisagedfor the NationalAcademyfor PrimaryEducation(NAPE) whichwill become
 the apex bodyfor teacher training at the primarylevel.



                                                        21

production and distribution, but these function will be opened to competition. This plan i s
expected to be finalized inconsultation with MOPME.

82.     Itis also anticipated that the curriculum wingwill be fully financed from the revenue
budget by 200617. The logic behind this i s two-fold: (a) loosening the control exerted by the
textbook wing on the curriculum wing - presently the curriculum wing i s financed from the
revenues o f the textbook wing; and (b) as the textbook wing shrinks as a result o f increased
privatization o f textbook production (see below), the revenues from textbook production will also
decline and will not be able to finance the curriculum wing.

Transparency in manuscript approval andprivatization of textbookproduction          ...

83.     An area where NCTB will retain an important supervisory role is that o ftextbook
approval. NCTBhas developed transparent criteria under which individual manuscripts are being
evaluated. The evaluation i s being contracted out to teams o f specialists (from outside NCTB)
hired on the basis o f subject expertise. NCTB's main focus i s now on regulating this process and
ensuringthat it occurs transparently.

84.     Reducing opportunity for corruption and misuse o f public resources intextbook
production i s a key element o f the reformprocess. Textbook production for grades 11and 12has
already beenprivatized and cabinet has recently approved a plan for privatization o f textbook
production for grades 6-10, following the procedures that have been used for grades 11and 12
(and usingthe newly approved government procurementrules). By 2007, publication o f all
textbooks at the secondary level will be privatized.

85.     Based on the discussion above, Box 3 and B o x 4 lay out the prior actions for
disbursement o f the first credit, and the indicative triggers for a possible follow-up adjustment
operationrespectively.




                                                   22

Box 3: Education Sector DevelopmentSupport Credit: Summary of PriorActions

Policy Framework

      Satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
 e    MinistryofEducationprovides a Letter of Sector Policy which lays out the medium-term
      policy framework and investments needed for quality improvements;

System Management

      Enforce salary-subvention system (MPO),with poorlyperforming institutions given notice
      that their subventions will not be reneweduntil they meet performance criteria;
      Institute standardized examinations at grade 6 and at grade 8; publishstandardized
       examination results (grades 8, 10, 12);
      Contract out the evaluation o f schools and colleges for awarding recognition status and
      becoming eligible to receive MPO subventions;
       Identify`overserved` upazilas and agree not to finance subventions to new schools being
       established inthese upazilas;
       Amendthe 1977Regulations on Managing Committees of the Registerednon-government
       Schools and Colleges (SMCs) which reflect proposed changes to their composition;
       Establish district andupazila oversight committees;
       Develop time-bound action plan to address financial management deficiencies.

Teacher Effectiveness

  e    Cabinet approval of draft legislation for Non-government Teachers' Registration and
       CertificationAgency (NTRCA) to certify a pool o f qualified teachers on the basis o f
       academic qualifications and examinations;
  e    Approve legislation for granting pensions to teachers.

Curriculum and Textbooks

       Develop restructuring action plan for NCTB clearly separating functions betweenthe
       Curriculum Development Wing and the Textbook Wing;
  e    Develop revisedtextbook manuscript approval criteria;
  e    Develop plan acceptable to IDA to competitively printand publishgrades 6-10textbooks in
       a phased manner.




                                                  23

       Box 4: Summaryof IndicativeTriggers for Follow-UpAdjustment Operation
                                               (FY05/06)

   Policy Framework

         Satisfactory macroeconomic framework

   System Management

         Independent evaluation o f performance o f service providers completed and recommendations
          implemented by MOE;
         Revise salary subvention system to better linksubventions for teachers salaries to outcomes
         on standardized examinations. Poorly performing schools will be givena two-year period in
          which to improve their performance and well performing schools will have their subventions
          increased for the next two years;
          Outcomes of expenditure tracking survey disclosedand MOEimplements recommendations
          inamanner satisfactory to IDA;
          MOE financial management plan implementedand financial unitfully functional.

    Teacher Effectiveness

          NTRCA approved byParliament and fully staffed;
          Approve incentive system for attracting qualifiedteachers;
          Finalize a core framework of standards specifying the minimumlevel competencies for all
          teachers;
          Teachers not meeting competence standards set by NAEM, to have skills upgraded over a
          period of five years beginning 2005.

    Curriculum and Textbooks

          NCTB restructuring under implementation;
          Independentevaluation of 1'' phase of competition for textbook printing and publishing
          completed and implementation of action plan continuing;




                                      VI. TheProposed Credit

86.     Following a request from the Government, the proposedProgrammatic Education Sector
Credit will support the first phase o f implementation o f the government's education reform
program -mainly focusing on supporting reforms insecondary education as laid out inMOE's
medium-term framework, and described in detail in SectionV above. The proposed credit
amount would be US$lOO million equivalent, and the borrower would be the People's Republic
o f Bangladesh.

87.     Based on agreement with the Bank and the IMF, the Government has put inplace a
prudent and sustainable medium-term macro-economic framework for increasing growth and
poverty reduction (see Annex B for more details). While not too ambitious, the growth rates
envisaged for the next five years represent a significant increase from recent performance. The
framework envisages a realistic recovery of GDP growth rates from the estimated 5.3 percent in
FY03 to 5.5 percent inFY04, increasing further to 6 percent inFY05 and plateauing at 6.5
percent inFY06and onwards. Inflation i s projected to decline to 4 percent from FY04 and



                                                    24

onwards. Growth has been anchored on larger investments by a more vibrant private sector
(including FDI), a strong increase inthe efficiency o f investment and a further buildingup o f
human capital and physical infrastructure. Available data and evidence suggests that the
economy is o n track to achieve the 5.5 percent growth rates for the current fiscal year and i s
taking necessary steps to ensure implementation o f the medium-term economic framework. This
credit i s subject to the satisfactory implementation o f this macro-framework.

88,       Since experience with multi-tranche adjustment operations inBangladeshinthe early-to-
mid 1990s has not been good, with cancellations o f second andthirdtranches, it is intendedthat
the credit will be disbursed ina single tranche, upon completion o f the prior actions summarized
inBox 2 above. Reformsinthe education sector are complex, politically sensitive, difficult to
carry out, and thus require a long-term engagement that follows rather than pushes the
Government's reform program. IDA'Srole duringthe program period will be to assist inbringing
knowledge and structure to the reformprogram, and to support it financially when the
government i s ready to implement.

89.       The prior actions are consistent with the medium-term policy framework articulated by
MOE (detailed inAnnex A2). Columns 3 and 4 o fthe matrix inAnnex A2 provide indications o f
the actions that Government i s contemplatingfor FY05/6 and FY06/7 that will be supported
through future operations. The monitorable indicators associated with this policy framework are
presented inthe final column.

90.       The Credit will follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with Bangladesh Bank
into which the proceeds o f the credit will be disbursed. Disbursement will not be linked to any
specific purchases, and no procurement requirements will be needed. Disbursements will follow
normal government policies and procedures. Ifthe credit proceeds are used for ineligible
purposes, IDA will require the Borrower to either (a) retum that amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, inwhich case IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount o f the credit. IDA reserves the right to an audit o f the special
deposit account by the statutory auditor o f Bangladesh Bank with terms o freference acceptable to
IDA. The Ministry o fFinance andthe BangladeshBankhave inplace the basic financial
management systems interms o f accounting, reporting, auditing and internal controls. The
BangladeshBank agreed to adopt I A S inpreparing its financial statements and will be auditedby
 internationally recognized auditing firms.

 Fiduciary Issues

 91.       Financial Management. The findings o f the Country Financial Accountability
 Assessment (CFAA) apply to all sectors including education. The CFAA study revealed that
 fiduciary risk inpublic spending i s highand significant improvement inpublic financial
 management i s required. Among the wealmesses identified inthe study are: (a) inadequate
 control environment; (b) rigid and process oriented financial management system; (c) weak
 human resource development; (d) ineffective and inefficient monitoringo f public expenditure
 against budgetary allocation; and (e) lack o f enforcement o f laws, transparency and accountability
 inthe management o fthepublic resources. The governmentis committedto improvementsin
 public financial management and has started implementing a number o f reforms. A financial
 management assessment o f the education sector conducted as part o f this operation identified the
 following issues: (a) inadequate control environment leadingto misuse, wastage o f public funds
 and corruption; (b) unreliable accounts due to huge backlog inreconciliation; (c) insufficient
 capacity inMOE to produce comprehensive financial information to evaluate performance and


                                                   25

take informed decision; (d) absence o f internal audit function to review the internal control
system and management performance; (e) poor response to audit objections at prior PAC stage
and persistent delays inimplementationo f PAC recommendations; (f) lack o f professional
financial management capacity invarious academic and administrative units; and (g) misuse o f
autonomy and lack o f accountability inpublic universities and education boards.

92.      To keep the momentum o fthe on-going reform initiatives inpublic financial
management, the government has started implementing a five-year Financial Management
ReformProgram (FMRP) supported by DFID and the Netherlands Government. FMRP i s aimed
at: (a) improving audit and other reports on FMissues for parliamentary scrutiny, (b) developing
a regulatory environment for fiscal and performancemanagement, (c) enhancing resource
allocation and utilization inline ministries reflecting performance indicators; (d) enhancing
financial management reporting system; and (e) buildinga greater capacity o f the Financial
Management Academy (FIMA) for FMtraining. Most o f the FMRP initiatives will have a direct
impact on MOE which i s inthe first group o f the ministries for piloting a number o f reform
actions. The process o f setting up o f a Financial Management Unit (FMU) inMOE to enhance
financial management and intemal control i s progressing well. The FMUi s designed to achieve:
     a computerized management accounting system inthe ministry containing accounting
     information o f all development projects and recurrent budgets;
     the setting up o f a Budget and Monitoring Committee headed by the Secretary MOE to
     implement improved budget preparation processes to take informed decisions on expenditure
     management and reallocation o fresources;
     implementation o fperformance based budget and introduction o f Resource Envelop System
     for recurrent and development budgets;
     improvement in the intemal control environment through setting up o f the intemal audit
     function; and
0    increased capacity in senior management and DDOs on financial and performance
     management.

93.      As part of the ministry'sreformagenda, MOEhas agreed with IDA on a Financial
Management Improvement Plan which covers the following actions (summarized inAnnex A 2
and discussed ingreater detail inAnnex F):
     Improve reconciliation o fmonthly accounts o f DDOs with the respective Accounts Officers
     and institutingmandatory reconciliation by prohibiting defaulting DDOs to draw funds. T o
     implement this, it has been agreed that MOE will prepare the baseline data o f unit-wise
     reconciliation arrears and chalk out a time bound action plan to make it up to date;
     Introduce Internal Audit functions invarious units and projects o f MOEby outsourcing the
     function to private auditors untilin-house capacity and organization i s built up;
     Improve response to audit queries o f C&AG: This involves preparation o f baseline data and
     agreeing on a timetable to clear responses in arrears and setting service standards for future
     response time;
     Implement PAC directives by establishing a system to track actions taken on by the Principal
     Accounting Officer (Secretary, MOE) and involve Parliamentary Standing Committee for
     M O E to settle audit objections before being reported to PAC;
     Strengthen the effectiveness o f FMU(set up under FMRP)by including reporting o f all non-
     development Unitsunder its fold.

 94.      To avoid duplication and overlap, the above stated actions will be largely implemented
 withinthe framework of the ongoing FMRPproject and quarterly monitoring will be done.




                                                  26

95.      Procurement. Reforms to address the underlying causes o f poor procurement i s highon
the country's governance agenda. Assisted by an IDA credit approved in2002, procurement
reforms entail: (a) reforming the procurement rules and mandatory use o f standard bidding
documents to reduce procurement delays; (b) introducing mechanisms to ensure transparency in
the procurement process; and (c) establishing procurement training, monitoring and evaluation
capacity to track procurementperformance o f public sector entities. GOB, through a gazette
notification, has mandated the new regulations effective September 30,2003. These reforms
have been adopted by all government agencies, including MOE.

Eitviroitmeittal Aspects

96.      Based on OP 4.01, the proposed operation falls under Environmental category C. As part
of the preparation and implementation for the series o f DSCs expected to take place over the next
several years, discussions are underway with the Government to collaborate with the Bank inthe
preparation o f a Country Environment Analysis, which would review the state o f the
environment, analyze existing policies, and assess current institutional capacity for environmental
management. Based on this assessment, further environmental reforms and institutional
strengthening consistent with the PRSP may be incorporated into the actions supported by future
adjustment credits.

97.      Specifically at the secondary education level, a principal environmental concern is the
need to ensure the provision o f safe drinkingwater at schools, and the provision and maintenance
o f adequate sanitation. To address these issues, IDA has been working with MOE (as part o f the
Second Female Secondary Education StipendProject currently being implemented) to put in
place arrangements to guard against the arsenic contamination o f drinkingwater. Agreed upon
guidelines are also beingusedto design and maintain latrines.

Poverty aizd Social Impacts

 98.     The I-PRSP acknowledges that the success o f the poverty reduction strategy will require
 a systematic approach to monitoring and evaluation, and outlines a comprehensive set o f input,
 intermediate, and outcome indicators that will be usedto track progress inimplementing the
poverty reduction strategy. One o f the key outputs o f the poverty monitoring system envisaged
 under the I-PRSP i s an Annual Report on Poverty Reduction and Social Development, providing
 an overview o f progress in achieving economic growth, human development, poverty reduction,
 gender equality targets and analysis o f factors behind the observed trends and their policy
 implications. A Poverty Focal Point i s envisaged inthe Planning Commission for effective
 poverty and MDGmonitoring and tracking progress inimplementing anti-poverty policies and
 programs.

 99.      At the secondary level, arelatively comprehensive information base already exists,
 providing extensive geographically disaggregated data needed to monitor most o f the important
 indicators. BANBEIS maintains an extensive database o f secondary-education specific
 indicators, and the Bureau o f Statistics (BBS) carries out large-scale nationally and regionally
 representative surveys such as Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) on a regular
 basis.

 100.     Based on these data, key indicators that will be monitored duringthe medium-term will
 include: (a) pass rates in standardized examinations; (b) teacher absenteeism rates; (c) gross and
 net enrollmentrates (including enrollment rates o f the poor); (d) dropout rates; (e) completion
 rates; (0proportion o f public resources being accessed by the poor; and (0unit costs per


                                                   27

completer. As it will be important to monitor whether Bangladeshwill be able to maintain its
impressiveprogress towards gender parity, these results will be disaggregated by gender.
Furthermore, regular evaluations o f policies and programs will also be carried out to inform MOE
o f success inachieving targets.

101.     One o f MOE's goals i s to make the access to education more equitable, as currently only
24 percent o f the public secondary education spending i s accessed by the poor. Steps being taken
inthis direction havebeenhighlightedinSectionV. An attempt hasbeenmadeto simulate the
                                                                                      impact o f these reforms on the
            Figure5: Distributionof PublicResourcesto SecondaryEducdonbyQuintiles     distribution o f public
                                                                                      resources over the next five
                                                                                      years. As can be seen (Figure
                                                                                      5), the distribution o f public
                                                                                      expenditures i s expected to
                                                                                      become more pro-poor as a
                                                                                      result o f the measures being
                                                                                      undertakenby the
                                                                                      government. While only 17
                                                                                      percent o fpublic expenditures
                                                                                      are currently being spent on
                                                                                      the bottom two quintiles, this
                                                                                      proportion i s expected to rise

                               02                 as                                  to about 24 percent as a result
                                                                        04           I
                                                PulnUlal                              o f the reforms. The
                                              nCumenI      OPOII reforms              proportion o fpublic resources




Benefits and Risks

 102.    Improving governance has repeatedly been identified as the biggest development
 challenge facing Bangladeshand the greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and
thus achievingthe poverty reductionh4DG. The proposed credit will assist inleveragingreforms
 aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery, while at the same time improving equity o f access
 to secondary education. By altering the incentives for the financing and provision o f education,
 and buildinggreater accountability, these reforms will reduce rent-seeking opportunities and
 enhance cost-effectiveness.

 103.    It is intendedthat these reforms will leadto outcomes such as more equitable access to
 secondary educationwith more schools being set up inunderserved areas, better trained and more
 effective teachers, reducedteacher absenteeism, higher enrollment and completion rates, reduced
 time to complete the secondary cycle, and inunit costs per student completing the cycle (see
 Annex E for an analysis o f economic benefits and fiscal impacts). This will ultimately lead to a
 more skilled labor force attuned to the needs o f the Bangladeshi labor market, raising its
 competitiveness inglobal markets.

 104.    There are potentially some social costs associated with the project - e.g. the
 government's decision to stop subvention payments to under-performing schools unless they
 improve their performance, will lead to unqualified teachers beingpotentially laid o f f by private



                                                                          28

schools. However, these are far outweighed by the long-term benefits of good quality secondary
education being provided in schools with well-qualified teachers.

105.     T h e programdoes entail significant risks. T h e k e y risks and the r i s k mitigation strategy
are outlined in Table 7 below.

                          Table 7: ey Risksand RiskMitigation Strategies
                                                           RiskMitigationStrategy
                                   Creating a stable macroeconomic environment i s a central pillar in
  inthe macroeconomic              Government's strategy to accelerate economic growth. Towards
  situation.                       ensuring macroeconomic stability, the Government has taken
                                   actions inkey areas o f macroeconomic management - e.g. fiscal
                                   deficits and their domestic financing have been curtailed, and
                                   fiscal transparency and budget management are being improved.
                                   The medium-termmacroeconomic framework, jointly agreed with
                                   the IMF and IDA provides for the maintenance o f sustainable
                                   fiscal deficits and targets an acceleration inthe rate o f economic
                                   growth.
  Political. Sustaining the        MOEi s being realistic inits approach to reforms. A medium-term
  political commitment to          framework has been developed which has prioritized and
  reform. While the Ministers o f  sequenced the reforms that need to be undertaken, and attention is
  Finance and Educationare         focused in this first phase on undertaking crucial    - but at the same
  committed to improve the         time  - politically  sustainable, reforms. To buildbuy-infor this
  governance o f the system,       process, MOE i s holding numerous consultations with key
  several entrenched lobbies will  stakeholders as it moves forward inthis process. MOE has
   see significant reductions in   launched a significant IEC campaign o n its medium-term strategy,
  rents as a result o f these      and is discussing the benefits with key stakeholders (see Annex
  reforms and are likely to resist C).
   change.
   Capacity. Givenrelatively low   MOEi s cognizant o f its capacity constraints. Several measure are
   government capacity,            beingtakento alleviate this problem. Particular emphasis is being
   implementation o f reforms in a given to buildingtechnical planning capacity and focusing the role
   timely manner may be            o f MOE and its attendant institutions towards formulating policies,
  jeopardized.                     financing, setting quality standards, assuring quality delivery, and
                                   monitoring and evaluation.         Towards strengthening local level
                                   capacity, oversight committees have been formed ineach o f the 64
                                   districts and 481upazilas to monitor school performance and
                                   ensure public disclosure o f information. Inthe medium-term,
                                   greater autonomy will be devolved to zonal, district and upazila
                                   levels, whose capacity will be enhanced to carry out functions
                                    such as monitoring school performance and the quality o f
                                    schooling. MOE's strategy also realizes the importance o f
                                    strengthening school management committees to give them greater
                                   responsibility regarding the supervision o f schools. Furthermore,
                                   many reforms will be implemented incollaboration with the
                                   private sector and independent service providers on a competitive
                                   basis. T h i s will not only lead to higher quality o f services, but alsc
                                    ensure that MOE's capacity i s not unduly stretched during
                                    implementation o f the reformprogram.
   Financing. Owing to the          The single tranche operation will ensure implementation o f a
   uncertain external environment   critical set o f actions. Working with MOE on the reform program
   -whichmaynotimproveinthe         and preparing future loans on the basis o f actions already taken
   near future - thegovernment's   rather than promises o f future actions responds to the question o f
   ability to maintain its          commitment. While there are concerns about the uncertain
   commitment to the sub-sector     external environment, the Government remains committed to



                                                      29

Risks                                   RiskMitigation Strategy
may be an issue.    maintaining a highlevel o f investment inthe education sector.
                    Furthermore, Bangladesh enjoys considerable goodwill among the
                    donor community, which has indicatedthat their support to the
                    education sector will remain high ifthe reform efforts are
                    sustained.




                                   30

                                 Annex A l :   L e t t e r o f S e c t o r P o l i c y




                                                                 Ministry of FinanceandMinistry of Planning
                                                                 Government bf the People's Republic of Bangladesh
                                                                                      Dhaka




Minister for Finance& Planning

  NO.ERD/lDA-UESDSC/2002/45                                                           Date: 11April 2004

  Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:

  Subject:            Education Sector Development Support Credit

              Please find attached the Letter of Sector Policy for the Education Sector Development
  Support Credit, from Dr. M. Osman Farruk, Ministerof Education.

              Bangladesh has made substantial progress In undertaking politically challenging reforms
  over the past two and a half years and commitments made to our development partners are
  being adhered to.           In the eduaation sector, Bangladesh has made significant progress in
  enhancing access to education. However, challengesin imprqvingeducationquality remainand
  the Government is undertaking reforms which are aimed at addressing these issues. These
  reformsare aimed at raisingthe quality and cost-effectiveness of education service delivery, and
  improvingequity of access.

              Key areas in which reforms are being undertaken include system management, teacher
  effectiveness and curriculum and textbook reforms, and these are highlig ted in Dr. Farruk's
  letter. I would like to highlight some of the crucial reforms being underta en. In the area of
                                                                                      i:
  system management, some of these include enhancing transparency in the establishment and
  financing of schools, increasing accessto the most disadvantaged, and strengthening monitoring
  and evaluation mechanisms. Improving teacher effectiveness requites transparency in the
  teacher recruitment process. Towards this end, an autonomous National Teacher Registration
  and Certification Authority is being established, which will design and implement standardized
  and transparent criteria for certifying teachers. The main fuhctions of this authority will be to
  screen, and certify a pool of qualifiedteachers. Furthermore,to improve the quality of teachers,
  significant emphasis Is being placed on developing teaching standards and on teacher ttaining.
  In the area of textbook and curriculum reform, the production of textbooks for secondary
  education is being privatized, and transparent criteria have been developed against which
  manuscriptswill be evaluated byteams of prbfessionalexperts.

              The Government of Banpladesh is requesting IDA'sl assistance to support the
  comprehensiverefomi agenda in the education sector. We look forward to a sector supportfrom
  IDA amountingto $100 millionduringthis fiscal year, and furthgr supportfor reforms in the sector
  over the nextthree years.

              We are convinced that this programof reformswill receiveyoqr favorable consideration,




                                                                             M. Saifur Rahman
  Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
  President,The World Bank

                                                 3 1

                                                            r            M,OsmanFarruk,Ph.D
                                                                                   Mlnbbr
                                                                              Ministryof Education
                                                                 Governmentof The People's Republicof Bangladesh




No. MOE/S-11/10(19)/2002(Part-1)/384                                        Date: 3 1 March2004

                                                            e

Subject:        Education Sector Development Support Credit: Leber of Sector Policy
                                                                       1




Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,                          L)

                                                             (.



        Bangladesh's economic performance in the past few years has been strong. GDP growth
have exceeded five percent per annum, investment rates arehigh, public spending on social sectors
has increased, and poverty 1evels are falling. The Gov&n"mnt        .has taken significant actions t o
stabilize the macroeconomic environment and improve governance.                An Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was prepared on the bgsis of`extensive consultations with
stakeholders and the process of preparing a full PRSP is underway. These actions demonstrate the
Government's commitment to accelerate growth and reduce poverty.

        Human resource development i s at the core o f `Bangladesh's development efforts and
access to quality education is critical to poverty reduction and economic development.               The
Government i s c ommitted t o undertake structural reforms that are expected t o bring significant
improvements in the education sector. The nation's commitment to education has been clearly
stated in the constitution and its development plans with education being given the highest priority
in the budgetary cillocations. Educationexpenditures are currently about 2.2 percent o f GDP and
15.5 percent o f total government expenditures.     Maintaining this c ommitment to the education
sector i s imperative inorder to achieve Education for All (EFA) and the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs).

Sector Background

         The management of the education system falls under two ministries - the Ministry o f
Primary and Mass Education (MOPME, responsible for primary education) and the Ministry of
Education (MOE, responsible for secondary, vocational and tertiary education). Overall there are
more than 19 million students at the primary level, and over eight million at the secondary level.
Enrollments at the tertiary level are relatively small but growing rapidly.

         Bangladesh has made s ignificant progress, especially inregard to increasing access and
gender equity, both at the primary and secondary levels. Gross primary enrollment rates rose from
90 percent in the late 1990s to 96 percent in 2002, while a corresponding increase has seen
enrollment rates at the secondary level rise to 42 percent. Gender parity in access to primary and
iecondary education has also been achieved.        These achievements are particularly impressive
when compared to countries in the South Asia region and other countries at similar levels o f per-
capita income.



                                                3 2

       However, significant challenges remain        - -  primarily relating to the quality of
education which is reflected in relatively low outcomes.         Attendance rates are low (62
percent), teacher absenteeism is high (up to 20 percent), and the curriculum is of limited
relevance. Out o f every 100 students entering school, less than 10 complete grade 12 owing
to high dropout and low completion rates. Accountability and incentive mechanisms and,
checks and balances for students, teachers and administrators are weak.

GOBCommitment

       The Government i s strongly committed to alleviate these problems through reforms
across the education system. At the primary level, MOPME i s supported by a multi-donor
group through the Primary Education Development Program I1 (PEDP 11)              -  a six-year
program o f support which aims to strengthen educational access, quality and efficiency.

        In order to address issues at the secondary and higher levels, MOE has developed a
medium-term framework for the secondary education sub-sector, focusing on quality
improvements, policy measures and specific actions needed to reform the system.             The
development o f this medium-term framework has benefited from an extensive range of
consultations and workshops with stakeholders at the central, district, and upazila levels. The
main objective of reforms being proposed is to address systemic govemance issues aimed at
raising the quality and cost-effectiveness o f service delivery, and improve equity o f access in
secondary education. The Government is seeking assistance from IDA in order to implement
these reforms.

Proposed Secondwy Education Reforms

        Key areas being addressed include: (a) system management; (b) teacher effectiveness;
and (c) curriculum and textbook reforms. These are discussed below:

(a) System Management

        The objectives are to establish greater transparency in the use and allocation o f
resources, increase the accountability o f institutions to funding authorities and local
stakeholders, and develop a more devolved and efficient management of the education
system, with greater stakeholder involvement.

School Registration andFinancing

        Recognizing capacity constraints in effectively monitoring secondary school
establishment and registration, MOE i s implementing an approach where competitively
selected independent service providers will be entrusted with the responsibility of evaluating
the readiness of schooldcolleges for establishment or recognition.

        The process through which schools are financed has been made more transparent.
MOEhas enforced criteria which link Monthly Pay Order (MPO) subventions to performance
(in grade 10 and grade 12 examinations). 1300poorly performing institutions havebeen
given notice that their subventions will be stopped within one year unless they improve their
performance, and this process will b e undertaken ona regular basis. MPO's are also n o t
being issued to new institutions until they can demonstrate that they meet performance



                                               3 3

criteria.  A series o f further actions have been undertaken including - (i)instituting
standardized examinations at the grade eight level to measure learning achievements across
institutions; (ii)grade six examinations are being undertaken to assess the quality of
incoming students into the secondary cycle; and (iii)results of grade 8, 10 and 12
standardized examinations, and the names of schools not meeting performance criteria, will
be published and disseminated nationally to ensure that stakeholders have complete
information about school performance.

         Within the next few years, MOE will also shift to a grants-based financing system,
where resources going to institutionswill be 1inked more closely to the student o n a per-
capita basis. It is envisaged that schools will not directly receive salaries for teachers but will
be provided grants   - thatcan be used to pay teachers and well as be used for other quality-
enhancing purposes. This will enhance flexibility that schools have to choose the proper mix
between salaries and teachingllearning inputs.

Access

         MOE is cognizant of the possibility that the tightening o f criteria regarding school
financing and registration may lead to greater inequity in access, where relatively poor areas
will the most adversely affected.       To prevent this from happening actions are being
undertaken. BANBEISrecently undertook a school mapping exercise which is being used to
identify `overserved' upazillas where no new schools and colleges will be subsidized by the
govemment for two years; and `underserved' upazillas, where MOE will set up government
schools and will offer incentives to privateprovidersto set up/expand schools. This situation
will be reassessed on a regularbasis
Administration and Monitoring and Evaluation

         MOE is aiming to move towards a devolved system o f governance within the current
administrative structure. In this system the central government will be responsible for
formulating policies, financing, setting quality standards, and monitoring and evaluation etc.,
while lower levels o f govemment will be responsible for administering the system. M O E is
empowering officials at the district and upazilla levels to take greater responsibility in
monitoring school performanceand ensure public disclosure o f information (e.g. SSC passing
rates, teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.) related to school quality.

         Such functional devolution may involve restructuringof the Directorate o f Secondary
and Higher Education (DSHE) and associated organizations         - an organizational analysis will
be undertaken to recommend institutional changes that need to be implemented. MOE's
planning unit's capacity is being strengthened as is the monitoring and evaluation capacity.
Inthis effort, MOE is institutingperiodic surveys to track outcomes and public expenditures
and undertaking rigorous evaluation methods of its' programs and policies to improve their
design and effectiveness.    Furthermore, to ensure appropriate financial controls, MOE is
implementing a Financial Reform Management Program. This i s intended to increased
accountability and transparency inthe use o fresources.

StakeholdersInvolvement

         MOE recognizes that it is imperative to empower School Management Committees
(SMCs) and college Governing Bodies (GBs), because they are the key entities at the
community level who manage schools and monitor school performance. The Regulations on


                                              3 4

Managing Committees are being amended to ensure that only the Deputy Commissioners
(DCs), Upazilla Nirbahi Officers (UNOs), or retired government officials nominatedbythem,
can chair SMCs/GBs, and that any particular individual (other than DCs and UNOs) cannot
chair more than four committees.

(b) Teacher Effectiveness

         These reforms aim to develop a transparent and high-quality system of teacher
recruitment and teacher performance evaluation on the basis o f agreed criteria and standards.
One needs to keep in perspective that it is difficult to improve the quality o f all the teachers
who are already inthe system within a short period o f time. However, it is possible to begin
tackling the problem o f teacher absenteeism, prevent poorly qualified teachers from entering
the system, and establish a more effective system o fpre-service training.

Teacher Accreditation

         MOE is establishing an autonomous National Teacher Registration and Certification
Authority (NTRCA) which will design and implement standardized and transparent criteria
for the recruitment o f teachers. The main function of this authority will be to screen, and
certify a pool o f qualified teachers. All schools that receive an MPO will have to recruit new
teachers from this pool of pre-qualified teachers by the authority (teachers currently in the
system will be `grandfathered' but have to become pre-qualified). This will be done on the
basis of academic qualifications and a standardized examinationconducted on a regular basis.
The list o f pre-qualified teachers will be published and made available to all concemed.
School Management Committees (SMCs)/Goveming Bodies (GBs) will retain the authority
and flexibility to recruit teachers, but only from this pre-qualified pool. This authority will be
fully functional bythe endof2004 after beingapproved by Parliament.

TeacherRemuneration

         Government i s aware o f the fact that recruitment of quality teachers is linked to their
remuneration and incentive structure. Parliament has passed legislation granting pensions to
private secondary school teachers. Inparallel, MOE i s also developing a time-bound action
plan to address issues surrounding the provision o f incentives to teachers which will be
implemented within the next two years.

Teacher Trainingand Standards

         To improve the quality of the teachers who are already in the system, MOE
recognizes that training for teachers has to be strengthened through the National Academy of
Education Management (NAEM) which has been identified as the apex body for teacher
training. MOE will explore further regulatory measures to transform and develop NAEM
into an autonomous Teacher Education Authority. NAEM is going to be responsible for
certifying teacher training institutions and is expected to certify all teacher training
institutions(both public and private) by 2005/6. NAEM is also developing teacher teaching
standards including developing a core framework of standards specifying the minimum
           -
level competencies for all teachers   - and overseeing the certification o f all existing teachers
accordingto these standards over the next five years.




                                                35

(c) Strengthening Curriculum and Textbooks

       The main objective of the reforms is to enhance competition in textbook production
and publishingand focus on cumculum development. This i s expected to lead to improved
transparency in the selection and approval of textbooks, competitive production o f better
quality textbooks in a cost-effective and timely manner, and enhanced emphasis on
cumculumdevelopment.

National Curriculum and TextbookBoard

       The National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB), which falls under the
authority of MOE, i s responsible for curriculum development and textbook production for
both the primary and secondary levels.        MOE and MOPME are jointly drafting a
restructuring plan for NCTB, which aims to separate hnctions o f the textbook and
curriculum units. The curriculum wing will focus on identifying subjects and syllabi;
preparing, testing, revising and disseminating cumculum documents; providing training in
the application of curriculum; liaising with NAEM and National Academy o f Primary
Education (NAPE) on the treatment of cumculum in teacher training; and liaising with
experts inexaminations and assessment on the coverage of curriculum. The Govemment
intends to finance cumculum wing from the revenue budget by 2006. The textbook wing
will remain responsible for textbook development, production and distribution, but these
functions will be opened to competition.

        NCTB has recently designed transparent criteria under which individual textbook
manuscripts will be evaluated. The evaluation is being contracted out to teams of specialists
hired on the basis of subject expertise. NCTB's main focus i s to regulate this process and
ensure that it occurs transparently.

TextbookPrivatization Plan

        The Government i s determined to reduce opportunity for misuse of public resources
intextbook production. One o fthe ways we aretryingto achieve this byprivatizing textbook
production. Textbook production for grades XI and MI has already been privatized and
cabinet has approved a textbook privatization plan for grades 6-10.      By 2005, textbook
printing and publishing for 10 percent o f books in grades 6-10 will be open to competition,
following the procedures that have been used for grades XI and XI1 (and using the newly
approved government procurement rules).      By 2007, publication of all textbooks at the
secondary level will beprivatized.

Conclusion

        The Government of Bangladesh has embarked on a comprehensive agenda for reform
which is intended to provide children with quality education. The Government i s confident
of the sustainability o f the reform program because: (a) the reform program has been
developed through extensive consultations with key stakeholders; (b) the Government's
medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreed with the IMF and the World Bank,
provides for the maintenance of sustainable fiscal deficits and targets an acceleration in the
rate of economic growth; (c) fiscal projections are consistent with Bangladesh's reform
needs, with increased revenue mobilization and better prioritized expenditures, being central
elements of the budget strategy over the medium term; (d) Bangladesh is expected to



                                        3 6

 . .
J .

    I

       continue its long standing tradition of emphasizing investment in the social sectors,
       particularly education; (e) a numberof major steps havebeen already undertaken as prior
       actions hence institutionalizingand intemalizing the reform process; and (0these reform will
       form an integral component o fthe PRSP.

               The Government o f Bangladesh, through the Economic Relations Division, i s
       requesting the IDA to provide financing for itsmedium-term education reform program. A
       total of US$300 Inillion is required as IDA assistance, with $100 million requested for the
       first Credit. The dialogue with the IDA on this reformprogram andthe associatedfirst credit
       started in late 2002. The reform agenda and the instruments and institutional arrangements
       for its effective irnplementation have been designed in consultationwith IDA. The program
       was appraised inFebruary 2 004 andnegotiations are expected to take place inApriVMay
       2004.

               Ihave noted with particular satisfaction the cooperation betweenIntemational
       Development Association and the Government o f Bangladesh inthe field o f education, and I
       hope that this cooperation will be hrther strengthened through IDA'S support of
       Bangladesh's education reformprogram.

                                                                                Sincerely,




                                                                            (M.OsmanFarmk)
                                                                                 Minister
       Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
       President, The World Bank
       Washington D.C
       USA




                                                 3 7

a .. .   4 .




                00
                m

                           .
e    e    e    a    e    e      e

                     .
      *    e    > *




                       0
                       d




82.6-




                   .n
                   U
                   e

     .    . .
t--




                 .n


           Annex B: BangladeshMedium-TermMacroeconomicFramework

The Context

1.       When the present government took office inOctober 2001, Bangladesh's fiscal situation
was weak. Decliningexports, reduced FDIinflows and increased monetary accommodationo f
fiscal deficits threatened Bangladesh's ability to even maintain, let alone accelerate, its growth
and poverty reduction efforts. Global recession, across-the-board decline inexport prices, rising
oil prices, extremely slow progress in structural policy reforms and continued fragility inpolitical
and economic governance underpinnedthe vulnerable state o f the economy.

2.       Several macroeconomic fundamentals weakened inthe late 1990s. The central
govemment budget deficit increased to more than 5 percent o f GDP and domestic financing
increased sharply to above 3 percent o f GDP. As a result, central government domestic debt
increased from 13 percent o f GDP inFYOOto 15 percent inFYO1 and the share o f interest on
domestic debt increased from 13 percent o f current spending to 16percent duringthe same
period. Foreign exchange reserves declinedto around $1 billion, equivalent to less than one
month o f imports o f goods and services.

3.       Thanks to the resilience o f Bangladesh's economy, l o w initial levels o f public debt and
interest payments, and early action by the new government to restore fiscal and monetary policy
on a sustainable path, Bangladeshmanaged to maintain macroeconomic stability and achieved a
reasonable GDP growth o f 4.4 percent inFY02. This performance was strengthened further in
FY03 with GDP growth increasingto 5.3%' driven bothby stronger growth inagriculture and
industry. CPI inflation remainedmanageable at 4.6 percent by the end o f2002 despite the impact
o f September 2002 energy price adjustments and this increased slightlyto 4.4 percent inFY03.
Foreign exchange reserves have been rebuilt to around $2.5 billion, reflectingboth the impact o f
a tighter fiscal policy as well as disbanding o f administrative measures to contain imports.
Central Government deficit was reduced from 5.1 percent o f GDP inFYOl to 4.7 percent inFY02
through both additional revenue effort and expenditure discipline. The overall fiscal deficit in
FY03 came down further to 3.5 percent o f GDP, which is well below the revised FY03 budget
target o f 4.2 percent of GDP. While the overall deficit was significantly reducedinFY03,
external financing of deficit increased from 2.1 percent o f GDP inFY02 to 2.2 percent o f GDP in
FY03. This enabled a sizeable reduction in domestic financing o f fiscal deficit from 2.6 percent
o f GDP in FY02 to 1.3 percent o f GDP inFY03.

4.       The performanceinthe balance o fpayments was stronger than expected inFY03: exports
grew by 9.5 percent, reflecting mainly a rebound inthe ready-made garments sector interms o f
both growth in export volume and increase inexport prices. This reflects gains inboth
Bangladesh's export competitiveness and a recovery inglobal demand. Remittance remained
strong as well, and as a result, in spite o f 13 percent import growth (compared to 8.7 percent
decline inFY02), the current account surplus increased from 0.5 percent o f GDP inFY02 to 0.6
percent inFY03. This, together with a substantial increase inexternal assistance, particularly
IDA'SDSC o fUS$300 millionand IMF's PRGFfirst tranche disbursement o fUS$71million,
helped increase the growth o f official reserves from US$1.6 billion inJune 2002 to US$2.6
billion inNovember 2003, well above the original target under the Government's macroeconomic
program. Bangladeshfloated the exchange rate on M a y 31,2003, and the transition was very
 smooth. The taka has remainedbroadly stable since the float. Bangladesh's external debt
management has also beenprudent with close monitoring o fnon-concessional debt, particularly
 suppliers' credit. Macroeconomic performance inFY04 so far i s broadly on track.




                                                    43

5.       Monetary policy was kept reasonably tight inthe second half o fFY03 to facilitate the
transition to the exchange rate float. Interest rates from treasury bills were increased and growth
o f reserve money was limitedbelow the program target at 4 percent. Despite the tightening o f
monetary policy, private sector credit was allowed to grow by 13 percent inFY03. Taking
advantage o f this favorable environment, BangladeshBank decided to ease monetary policy in
the first quarter o f FY04 by reducing the bank rate from 6 percent to 5 percent and the Statutory
LiquidityReserverequirement from 20 percent to 16percent inNovember 2003. Interest rates on
treasury bills were reducedby 3 percentage points duringJuly-October 2003 and deposit and
lending rates have also started to decline (1-2 percent so far).

The Medium-TermMacroeconomic Framework

6.       The Government has put inplace a prudent and sustainable medium-term macro-
economic framework for increasing growth and poverty reduction (Table 1). While not too
ambitious, the growth rates envisaged for the next five years represent a significant increase from
recent performance. The framework envisages a realistic recovery o f GDP growth rates from the
estimated 5.3 percent inFY03 to 5.5 percent inFY04, increasing further to 6 percent inFY05 and
plateauing at 6.5 percent inFY06 and onwards. The Government's I-PRSP envisages raising
growth to 7 percent over the mediumto long term, which inconjunction with pro-poor policies
would help achieve the I-PRSP goal o f halving the number o f people living below the poverty
line by 2015. Inflationi s projected to decline to 4 percent from FY04 and onwards.



                                             Actual       Preliminary              Projections
                                              FY02      II    FY03       I1FY04  I  FY05   I   FY06
Output and Prices                                             Annual changes in percent
Real GDP Growth                                 4.4            5.3          5.5      5.5        6.0
GDP Deflator                                    2.7            4.4          5.5      5 .O       4.7
CPI                                             2.8            4.4          5.9      5.0        4.7




Source: Bangladesh Development Support Credit (2004) and Government Documents




                                                   44

7.       GDP growth would be anchored inlarger investment by a more vibrant private sector
(including FDI),a strong increase inthe efficiency o f investment and a further buildingup o f
human capital and physical infrastructure.'

8.       Fiscal Policy. The path o f fiscal policy inthe medium-term framework i s consistent with
Bangladesh's reformneeds and public debt sustainability. Revenue mobilization is the central
element o f the budget strategy for the next three years, The Government has already taken a few
significant steps to strengthen the income tax administration andrevamp the bonded warehouse
system. This would help balance the needto support poverty reduction with the needto contain
domestic financing. Also, over the next several years, the central Governmentbudget will have
to shoulder the burden o f paying the adjustment cost o freforms and increases indevelopment
expenditures on productive investment ineducation, health and poverty reduction. These are
expected to result inan increase inthe size o f the fiscal deficit from its estimated 3.5 percent o f
GDP in FY03 to 4.8 percent inFY04 and 4.7 percent inFY05. The wider fiscal deficits are
expected to be financed by increased external financing on concessional terms based on a
comprehensive poverty reductionplan.

9.       Total revenue in FY04 i s targeted to rise by 15 percent over its actual level inFY03 while
expenditure i s plannedto increase by 23 percent. Increasedpublic investmentwill be neededto
complement the growth o f private investment inresponse to reforms. To contain the cost o f
public debt servicing, the Government will limit domestic financing to 2.0 percent o f GDP in
FY04, and will rely more on highly concessional external financing. Ifthe latter turns out to be
higherthan the level currently projected, the overall budget deficit couldbe raisedto 5 percent of
GDP, to accommodate additional targetedpoverty reductionprograms and structural reform
costs. Inorder to adjust to a possible shortfall inconcessional external financing relative to the
FY04target, the budget will be executedprudently byback-loading expenditures, particularly
with respect to capital spending. The actions to be taken inthe event o f financing shortfalls
would include rationalizing and trimming expenditures and additional revenue measures.

10.      The quality o f development expenditures will be enhanced inorder to improve their pro-
poor focus. Inthis regard, the Public Expenditure Review Commission has already submitted its
final recommendations and the Government is working on an action plan to implement those
recommendations. It i s intendedthat, within the fiscal year, no new unapprovedADP projects
will be addedto the program as this undermines fiscal sustainability and the overall quality o f
ADP projects. Adequate fundingwill be ensuredto cover the costs o freforming the SOEs and
NCBs. Significant progress has already been made to provide IDA assistance to support the
Government's efforts inthese areas. Very tentative estimates made by the Government indicate
that the costs o f reform could be inthe range o f 0.5-0.7 percent o f GDP annually inthe next three
years.

 11.     The Government has committed to attach particular importanceto improving fiscal
transparency and control, especially fiscal reporting and watchdog institutions. Recent gains in


'Available  data on real sector performance inFY04 indicate that the economy is pretty much o n track to
achieving the 5.5 percent growth target. Given this, the macroeconomic framework projects a 1percentage
point increase inGDP growth by FY06 under an accelerated reformscenario. Based o n the strategy
outlined inthe I-PRSP, it is assumed that this would be achieved by addressing some o f the major
constraints on industrial growth. These relate to deficiencies inindustrial finance, poor quality o f
infrastructure services (particularly power and ports), slow pace o f privatization o fpublic sector
enterprises, and the persistence o f a legal and regulatory framework characterized by pervasive, archaic and
unnecessary laws, vague and discretionary regulations, and flawed enforcement.


                                                       45

fiscal reporting will be consolidated through implementingthe action planrecommendedby the
Fiscal Transparency Module o f the Report on Observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC), as
well as meeting key benchmarks under the Financial ManagementReformProgram. In
particular, steps will be taken to strengthen internal control by allowingthe office o f the Auditor
General to carry out audit functions independently.

12.       The ExternalSector andBalanceof PaymentOutlook. Inorder to putthe economy
on a path o f accelerated and sustainable growth, Bangladeshi manufacturers and service providers
need to find new products and export markets for the absorption o f their supplies and services. It
i s reasonable to assume that, with a revival inthe global economic environment, a flexible
exchange rate regime and reduction inthe domestic cost o f doing business, Bangladeshwould be
able to raise merchandize export growth to about 8-9 percent per annum by FY05 Manufacturing
and service oriented growth also means increased dependence on import growth, as i s the case in
any economy with growing openness. Import growth i s expected to remain strong at around 7
percent inFY05 and onwards. Remittance from Bangladeshi workers abroad can also be
expected to grow at a healthy 4-5 percent annually, as demand for labor and wages in
international labor markets return to normal levels. The required export, remittance and import
growth rate for sustaining productivity growth imply that the current account deficit would rise to
-0.8 percent of GDP inFY04, primarily on account o f capital imports. This i s not unsustainable,
given improved access to concessional financing due to structural reforms and macroeconomic
stability. The balance of payments outlook i s strengthened as exports are diversified, more
workers' remittances are channeled through the formal financial sector while a favorable business
climate leads to higher FDI.

 13.      The projections above assume that Bangladesh will take enough preparation to face the
main medium term risk emanating from the phase out o f the MFA quotas at the end of 2004.
Since Bangladeshi s heavily dependent on RMGexports, the adverse impact o f the quota phase
out on Bangladesh's externalposition, output and employment could be very significant.
Unfortunately Bangladeshhas lost valuable time inpreparingto face the anticipatedchanges in
its export markets following the MFA phase-out.2 Inaddition there i s also the risk arising from
the fragile political environment, particularly the build-upto election in2006, and institutional
capacity constraints. There are also several other externalrisks, particularly higher oil prices, and
potential losses inworkers' remittances. Persistence with substantial structuralreforms will help
weather the shocks. Concessional foreign financing - both capital transfers and medium and
long-term loans - will be critical for Bangladesh's medium-term growth sustainability and
reducing vulnerability to shocks. The present foreign exchange reserve level o fjust 2.9 months'
import equivalent i s still on the low side and needs to be raised somewhat further by the end o f
FY04. A more accommodative fiscal stance and emergency external support may also be needed
to help avoid an excessive economic slowdown due to exogenous shocks.




  To address these concerns, the Bank is engaging o n several fronts through investment lending in
 infrastructure and human capital development and adjustment support. While progress may not be smooth,
 even a partial achievement inthese areas should be enough to provide the stimulus needed for increasing
 GDP growth by one percentage point duringthe next two years. Itis also important to note that various
 analytical work done by the Bank and the Fundindicate that a five percent annual GDP growthrate i s
 adequate for fiscal sustainability. Hence, even ifthe accelerated reform scenario does not materialize to a
 substantial extent, fiscal sustainability may still not be injeopardy as long as the benchmark performance i s
maintained.




                                                         46

14.      MonetaryPolicy. Maintaininglow inflation, increasingGDP growth and stable
international reserves level equivalent to three months' o f imports require prudent monetary and
exchange rate policies. Consistency i s neededbetween the growth o fbroad money and the BB
net domestic assets. Broad money growth inturn has to be inline with the growth o f nominal
GDP and the economy's monetization needs. Given a prudent fiscal stance, tighter monetary
policy relative to the experience inthe recent past should have no adverse implications for the
growth o f credit to the private sector.

15.      Inthe indicativeprogramagreed withthe IMF,the Governmenthas committed to reserve
money growth target o f 9.8 percent for FY04, while broad money growth i s expected to slow to
13.3 percent inFY04. This would allow Bangladesh Bank to accommodate private sector credit
growth without losing net internationalreserves. The Government i s also inthe process o f
linkingthe yields onnew issues o fnational savings certificates to the rates for treasury bills o f
comparable maturity and enhance coordinationbetween foreign exchange and liquidity
management operations. These will help further reduce rigidities inthe structure o f interest rates
and augment the effectiveness o f monetarypolicy. Further, reforms infinancial markets and the
development o f a secondary market for treasury bills would allow the use o f indirect instruments
for monetary policy to enhance monetary management. Some progress has already been made in
this area. The reforms inthe monetary sector are expectedto increase control o fBB overNCBs
and DFIs and lead to an efficient allocation o f credit, largely to the private sector. This i s made
possibleby reduced central Government reliance on banks for deficit financing and with market
determined lending rates.

 16.     PublicDebtS~stainability.~         Despite increases intotal public debt from 44.4 percent o f
GDP inFY98 to about 53.2 percent inFY02, Bangladesh remains among the "less indebted low-
income" countries with the ratio o f net present value o f external debt to exports at about 105
percent in 20014. Nearly two-thirds o f the total public debt comprise o f highlyconcessional
external debt. Current public debt would be sustainable under the fiscal and external policy path
envisaged inthe macroeconomic framework. Downside deviation from this path could subject
Bangladeshto unsustainable debt dynamics. A recent IMF exercise examined what would
happen to the public sector debt-GDP ratio ifall key variables remained at their average value for
the past seven years. This analysis suggests that the baseline, which assumes a slight increase in
public debt from about 5 1percent o f GDP to 53 percent, compares unfavorably against the
 historical scenario. This i s because the baseline assumes a lower 3.8 percent GDP growth rate
 duringFY03-08 than the recent historicalaverage o f 5 percent, a higher averagenominal interest
 rate on public debt (5 percent compared with 2.8 percent), and a slow but steady decline inthe
primary deficit from 2.1 percent o f GDP inFY03 to 1.4percent o f GDP over the projection
 period, comparedwith a historical average o f 1.8 percent o f GDP.

 17.      Applyingindividual and combined adverse shocks to key economic variables inFY03-
 04, IMF stress tests on the baseline projections suggest that, even under significant adverse
 shocks, the public debt i s likely to remain manageable at under 70 percent o f GDP. The greatest
 riskto the baseline scenario apparently comes from a significantrealdepreciationo fthe exchange
 rate' and a sudden increase in other debt-creating flows, the latter arising for example from a


  As Bangladeshhas a unitary form o f government, autonomous local government institutions are
 practically non-existent and sub-national deficits and debt are therefore not an issues. Hence all discussion
 on public debt refers to the central government.
  Total central Government debt infact declined to 5 1.7 percent of GDP inFY03.
  IMFsimulations show that the greatest impact to the programscenario would come from a large real
 depreciation of the exchange rate. A one time 10percent depreciation of the real exchange rate adds four


                                                      47

recapitalizationo f NCBs or an assumption by the Government of SOE debt whose costs are not
incorporated into the baseline scenario.6 Shocks to the real interest rate, GDP growth, or to the
primary balance have relatively modest impacts on the debt dynamics. While this analysis does
not take into account the contingent liabilities of the Government, which could be considerably
large, it does reinforce the importance o f adhering to the macroeconomic policy path envisaged in
the Government's medium-term fkamework.

18.      A more comprehensive examination ofthe implications for sustainability o f the
deteriorating fiscal stance inthe late 90s, at the level o fboth the central Government and the
consolidatedpublic sector, derived a level of the primary deficit to GDP consistent with constant
money-GDP and public debt to GDP ratios. The results showed that the sustainable level o f the
Government's primary deficit was 2.7 percent of GDP; well below the actual 4.4 percent inFYOO
and the 4.7 percent inFYO1, but close to the 2.9 percent primary deficit achieved inFY02 and
above the 1.7 percent actually achieved inFY03. Thus, while the increases inprimary deficit,
financed by costly domestic debt, inthe late 90s was not sustainable, current fiscal policy and the
medium-term fiscal framework i s consistent with sustainability. The calculations o f sustainable
primary deficit levels for the Government and the consolidated public sector, usingFYOl actual
level as the benchmark, showed that a fiscal correction equivalent to 1.8-2 percentage points o f
GDP was required for the primary deficit inorder to attain stationary liabilityratios to GDP. The
required correction has already been achieved by the end of FY03. As Table 1shows, the
medium-term fiscal deficit path adopted by the Government implies a stable total public debt-
GDP ratio at around 50-52 percent.




percentage points of GDP to the public debt ratio. However, this, ifoccurring ina single year and in
conjunction with full hnding of the capital costs o freforms, could raise the public debt ratio to just under
65% o f GDP. This debt ratio is judged to be manageable because over half o f the debt burdeni s external
on highly concessional terms.
6 Developments inthis area are encouraging. SOE losses inthe manufacturing sector have already been
reduced by about 50 percent. With respect to NCBs, the process for strengthening bank management is
being put on track and a critical mass o f actions have now been taken to stay on course.




                                                      48

    Annex C: IEC Campaignfor Disseminatingthe SecondaryEducationPolicy
                                           Framework

1. MOEis finalizing its' Medium-Term Policy Eramework(MTF) for the secondary-education
sub-sector. The objective o f the IEC campaign i s to increase public awareness, generate public
support, and strongly advocate government and stakeholders' actions to implement the MTF.

Objectives

2. The IEC campaign shall achieve the following:

    Generate greater awareness, interest and support o f cabinet, MPs, the general public and
    education stakeholders o f the value and direction o f education policy in advancing the quality
    o f education and the observance o f accountability by its main implementers to the sector's
    beneficiaries and stakeholders;

    Through sustained information and advocacy, assist inthe smooth and effective transition o f
    administrative functions from the central offices o f MoE, DSHE and other institutions to a
    clearly-defined management system which promotes accountability inthe system;

    Supported by proper information and advocacy, promote the rationalization of existing
    institutions through institutional transformations leading to enhanced good governance
    practices which enhance transparency, accountability, and consistency inpolicy and prograd
    project implementationand objective monitoring and evaluation o f the education sector and
    secondary education subsector;

    Builda strong reservoir o fpublic information, goodwill and support for the MTFwhich can
    berelied upon to smooth over problems or crises ifand when they occur to sustain the
    interest and cooperation o f teachers, students, administrators, stakeholders and public media
    o f the education sector.

Strategy of Implementation

3. A two-pronged implementation strategy will be used:

    First,the focus will be on information-awareness and support-generation for the objectives of
    the MTF and its recommended changes for decentralized management and good governance.
    There will be sustained information-disseminationo f the changes being implementedby
    MTFandthe benefits occurring from these changes.
    Second, and concurrently, the emphasis will be on the inclusion o f the MTF inthe National
    Education Policy by the National Education Commission and its substantial contribution to
    improved quality o f education, and enhanced accountability through decentralized
    management and good governance.

Key Messages

4. The key messages shall represent the clear objectives, depth, scope, diversity, andbenefits o f
the MTF articulated in formal media, non-formal media, special events, advocacy groups, and
community groups. These key messages include the following:




                                                  49

   Articulation o f the education vision and its strategic implications for quality education and
   education accountability;

    Clear presentationo f education long-term goals and immediate objectives;

   Priority reforms for quality improvement and decentralized management and good
    govemance - including on issues related to system management, improved quality o f
    teachers, and N C T B reform and the timely production o f good quality and cost-effective
    textbooks;

Implementation Arrangements and Action Steps

5. The existing M o E Implementation Cell shall plan and manage this campaign. Some o f the
key messages neednot be announced by MoE. Other stakeholders (such as teachers' associations
or SMCs) can act as spokesmen.

6. Implementation activities will revolve around the following action steps: Infonnation-
dissemination, including defense and offense, where needed through:

    Traditional Media And Tools (such as publicity and advertising inradio, TV, newspapers, or
    publications, direct mail, posters, newspaper supplements, etc.). Some o f these are new
    stories; feature stories; editorials; interviews; photo sessions; direct mail; posters; newspaper
    supplements, etc., including:
    9 primerfor selecteddistribution to Donors and stakeholders;
    9 Website;
    9 manual for mailinganddistribution to Donors andstakeholders;
    9 series offeature stories for newspapers;
    9 editorial/cartoonpresentationofMTFhighlights

    Nun-Traditional Media (such as street dramas, stage shows, singing/poetry contests, word-of-
    mouth campaigns, discussions incommunity assembly halls, public markets, letters-to-editor,
    job fairs, youth assemblies, etc.), including:
    9 youthGroupsfromMinistryofYouth andSports thatwill stage street dramas,
         singing/poetry contests, public assemblies, etc., on the MTF;
    9 selectletters-to-editors;
     9 job fairs whichwill include 1-page sheets onMTFbenefits

    Advocacy Groups clustered into Speakers' Bureaus with Youth Animators (successful grade
    X andXI1graduates), andnetwork o fvolunteers, chosen youth leaders, joumalist/media
    personalities, etc., including:
     9 Selectedstudent scholars ofgrade V andgrades X andXI1to speak onbenefitsofMTF
         for teachers, students and communities;
     9 Invitingjoumalist/media personalities to donews itemsonMTF.

    Local Communip Groups led by selected SMCs, NGOs, aimed at wide-spread awareness-
    building, image-building, public support and commitments, including:
     9 School-based sessions bySMC membersonthe benefitsofMTF;
     9 Community-basedsessions byNGOdCBOs onMTFbenefits




                                                   50

Annex D: EnhancingCommunityParticipation Strengtheningthe Roles of School
                                                              -
                                     ManagementCommittees

Background

1. Bangladeshhas an institutionalizedmechanismfor community participationinits educational
system. School managing committees (SMCs) and governing bodies (GBs) are required inall
recognized non-government secondary schools and intermediate colleges, respectively. Their
roles have been institutionalizedthrough the 1977 Board o f Intermediate and Secondary
Education (BISE) regulations governing the formation o f SMC's. The membership o f the SMCs
consists o f a chairman, a member-secretary and nine other members:


0   a chairman - the deputy commissioner, an upazila officer, or an individual nominatedby the
    BISE;
0   a member-secretary - the headmasterheadmistress of the school; and
0   Nine members, including:
          9 two teachers electedbythe teachers fromamongthemselves;
          >  four guardiandparents to be elected among the guardiandparents o f the students from
             among themselves;
          9 one founder electedbyfounders7fromamongthemselves;
          >  one donor elected by donors' from among themselves; and
          9 one localcommunity memberinterestedineducationnominatedbythe district
             education office;

2. The management committee has a term o f three years and serves at the pleasure o fthe BISE
and can be dissolved on the recommendation o f MOEon grounds o f inefficiency, financial
irregularity or mismanagement.

          According to the 1977 regulations, key functions o f the SMC's include:
0   appointing, suspending and dismissingteachers;
0   monitoring school performance and teacher and student attendance;
0   raising and managing funds and creating endowments for the school; and
0    approving annual budgets including the development budget for the school;

3.  All non-government schools inBangladeshhave functioning school management
committees.

Issues

4. The structure of the management committee and its functions are geared towards ensuring
that communities are closely involved inthe operations o f the schools and can support the
headmasters inmanaging the school effectively.

5.   However these bodies are not functioning effectively. A key problems i s that o f `elite
capture'. Exploiting the loophole inthe selection o f the chairmanship o f SMCs -which allows


  A founder is an individual who contributed at least Tk. 15,000 towards the establishment o f the school or
who donated landuponwhich the school was built.
  A donor is an individual who donates at least Tk. 10,000 towards the operation o fthe school at any time
after the school has beenestablished.


                                                      51

BISE to nominate the chairperson -politicians and Members o f Parliamenthave frequently
exerted pressure in order to get chosen for these positions. Members o f Parliament and
politicians routinely chair 30-40 SMCs (and insome instances over 100 SMCs) and often use this
position for political gaidfavor.

6. A critical factor underlyingthe `elite capture' i s the fact that SMC's have the power to hire
teachers. While criteria for hiringo fteachers are set, they are rarely followed and the process i s
open to abuse and rent-seeking. SMC chairpersons are inthe position to ask for `donations' from
those wishing to teach at the school. These `donations' are often o f the order o f 1-2lakh Taka
(roughly $2000-$3500). Poorer, better-qualified applicants are overlooked infavor o f candidates
who can pay these donations. SMC chairpersons are also exert pressure to appoint their relatives
or individuals inpowerful positions within the community as school teachers.

7. The politicalinterference has ledto an apparent lack o f interest o f community members and
guardians to participate inSMCs and they are generally reluctant to play an active role. This has
undermined the accountability o f the school towards the community.

Proposed Reforms

8. One o f the positive aspects o f the Bangladeshi system at the secondary level i s the freedom
students have to attend the educational institution o f their choice. Hence students, and their
parents, do have a voice as they can among schools on the basis o f quality. However, this does
not ensure community participation inthe operation o f the school.

9. A key steps that the government i s taking inthis regard i s the provision o f information -
information on standardized examination outcomes, school performance, and on program
effectiveness will be disseminated widely down to the upazila level. This will ensure that
students, parents and communities will have the ability to make decisions about how a school is
performing relative to others on the basis o f objective information.

 10. Recognizingthat it is imperativeto empower School Management Committees (SMCs) as
they are the key entity at the local level to monitor schools, especially on aspects related to the
attendance o f teachers and students, upkeep o f physical infrastructure, and performance in
examinations, MOE has engaged indialogue with stakeholders -including parents and
community members - to design reforms which will enhance community participation at the
school level and ensure that the problems stated above can be successfully resolved.

 11.     As a result o f this, two sets o freforms are being contemplated immediately. First, the
Regulations on Managing Committees o f the Registered Non-Government Secondary Schools are
being amended to ensure that only the deputy commissioners, upazilanirbahi officers, or retired
government officials nominated by them, can chair SMCs and that any particular individual
(other than deputy commissioners or upazila nirbahi officers) cannot chair any more than four
committees. This will ensure that politicians or local elite cannot control a vast number o f
 SMC's. Secondly, the rules governing the hiringo f teachers are being amended. To ensure
 standardized and transparent criteria are adhered to inthe recruitment o f teachers, an autonomous
Non-Government Teachers' Registration ad Certification Agency (NTRCA) i s being established.
This agency will screen and certify apool o f qualified teachers. All schools will have to recruit
new teachers from the pool selected by the agency (teachers currently inthe system will be
 `grandfathered' but have to become certified - see below). While SMCs will still retain the
authority and flexibility to recruit teachers, these teachers will have to be selected from the pre-
 qualified pool. This process will severely reduce rent seeking opportunities for the elite, thus


                                                   52

reducing their incentives for chairing SMCs, which i s anticipated, intum, to lead to greater
involvement o f the community inthe functioning o f schools. It is anticipated that these changes
will enhance the power o f consumers to monitor and discipline providers and strengthen the role
o f parents in school management committees.

12. Inthe medium-term, a critical reformthat i s being envisaged is the move towards a grants-
based financing system, where resources will be linkedmore closely to the student. Schools will
not directly receive salaries for teachers but will be given tuition grants that can be usedto pay
                                                                           -
teachers and well as be used for other quality-enhancing purposes. The grants will be linked to
the number o f students and to school criteria reflectingperformance as well as physical
conditions o f the school, teacher qualifications, teacher and student attendance. Not only will this
enhance the flexibility that schools have to choose the proper mix between salaries and inputs, but
it will give the community (and students andparents) a greater choice inthe selection and
operation o f good-quality schools.




                                                   53

                           Annex E: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis


I.EconomicAnalysis

1. Improving governance hasrepeatedly been identified as the biggest development challenge
facing Bangladeshand the greatest impediment to achieving its growth potential and thus
achieving the poverty reductionMDG. The proposedcredit will assist inleveraging reforms
aimed at raising the quality o f service delivery, while at the same time, improving equity o f
access. This will be done through puttinginplace and implement policies that will address
governance and quality issues through reform inkey areas - system management (e.g. reform o f
the MPO system, enforcing regulations regarding registration o f new schools and colleges),
teacher recruitment and training (e.g. Non-Government Teacher Registration and Certification
Agency, consolidation o f training under an apex organization), textbook reform (e.g. transparent
criteria for selection o f textbooks, clearly demarcating textbook and curriculum functions).
Reforms are intended to strengthen the implementationo f government programs and activities
carried out incollaborationwith other development partners. It i s intended that these reforms will
lead to outcomes such as higher enrollment rates, raised completion rates, decrease intime to
complete the secondary cycle, and a reduction inthe unit cost per student completing the cycle.
By altering the incentives for the financing andprovision o feducation, andbuildinggreater
accountability inthe system, these reforms will reduce rent seeking opportunities, enhance cost-
effectiveness and quality o f the education system.

(a) Rate of Return Analysis

2. Interms o f quantifiable benefits, it i s clear that the rate o f return to secondary education in
Bangladeshi s high. The standard rate o f retum analysis was applied to the 1995/96 Household
Expenditure Survey data to estimate the private returns to schooling inBangladesh. Findings
showed that each additional year o f schooling yields about a 10 %return on the earnings forgone
by the household(Table 1).




         Source: WorldBank (2000), Bangladesh Education Sector Review, Dhaka

3.  The estimated private rate o f return i s muchhigher for women (16.5 percent) than men (9.2
percent). The rate o f return for individuals inthe rural area was 9.5 percent, whereas the rate for
those inurban areas was 10 percent. The earnings o f a primary school completer i s on average
52.6 percent higher (annual rate of retum o f 10.5 percent) than those who have no schooling and
those who have some primary schooling but did not complete it. The additional annual rate o f
return after completingjunior secondary and secondary education i s 7.4 percent and 10.8 percent
respectively.




                                                    54

4. The private returns based on estimated Mincerianregressions, take into account only the
forgone earnings (indirect costs) as the cost o f education. Estimates o f social rates o f return take
into account the individual and government cost o f educational investment associated with
moving an individual from one education category to the next. The estimates were obtained
usinga short-cut method given by the formula below, which provides estimates o fthe same order
o f magnitude as those obtained using the complete method:

     R=(Ess - Eps)/(n*Eps +n*Css)

where R =rate o f return; Ess = average earnings o f secondary school graduate; Eps = average
earnings o f primary school graduate; n= duration o f secondary education; Css = average annual
cost o f secondary education (direct cost); and n*Eps= earnings forgone due to secondary
schooling. The numerator estimates net earnings due to secondary schooling, that i s average
earnings o f secondary school graduates minusearnings forgone because o f secondary schooling.
The denominator estimates total cost which equals forgone earnings plus direct cost.

5.   The social rates o f return under three different cases are shown inTable 2.' The assumptions
made inthe first case i s that the only benefits considered are the monetary benefits measured in
terms o f increased earnings. It i s assumed that an average student requires 3.8 years to complete
a 3-year cycle ofjunior secondary level and 2.6 years to complete a 2-year secondary cycle. The
estimates suggest that the social rate o freturn for lower secondary education i s 8.3 percent and
for secondary it i s 8.6 percent.

6. However, these estimates are obtainedby ignoring non-monetary gains and externalbenefits.
Theoretically, the social rate o f return should include non-monetary benefits or other external
benefits - benefits not captured by the individual student or ifeducation i s treated as a family
investment, by the individual student and hisher family. Furthermore, improvements inthe
 govemance o f the system will lead to quality improvements which will also result inbenefits.
Non-monetary benefits that can be considered while estimating social rates o f return are (a) gains
 due to improvements in family and health indicators and (b) reductions o f wastage interms o f
 dropouts and repetitions, thereby increasing the internal efficiency o f the education system.

 7. These are captured by Case B-it i s anticipated this case mimics the returns to the more
 efficient and highquality system that the government i s attempting to introduce.



                                             Junior Secondary                         Secondary
                                        Male   IIIIFemale        Total    M a l e     Female      Total
       Private Rates o f Return          7.3        11.8          7.4      10.7         19.1      10.8
       Social Rates (Case A)             8.4        9.3           8.3   I  8.6          16.2  I1I  8.7
       Social Rates (Case B)        II  10.2        12.3    IIII 10.5   I  10.6   1III  20.9  I   11.0

 8. Inorder to quantify these non-monetary benefits for junior secondary and secondary
 education, it i s assumed that improvements in family, health and other social indicators account
 for an increase inthe net monetary earnings o f 25 percent (junior secondary) and 20 percent
 (secondary) for females and 15 percent (junior secondary) and 10percent (secondary) for males.
 Itis also assumed that an average student requires 3.6 years to complete a 3-year cycle ofjunior



  These rateshave been computedfor lower secondary - grades VI-VIII, andsecondary- grades IX-X. They havenot
 been computed for higher secondary (gradesXI-XII).



                                                      55

secondary level and 2.4 years to complete a 2-year secondary cycle (this i s discussed inmore
detail below).

9. The results confirmthat social rates o f return for bothjunior secondary (10.5 percent) and
secondary (11percent) education are highto justify government investment inthe sub-sector. In
particular, secondary education for females i s the best investment from both the individual and
society's point of view as shown by the private and social rate o f return o f about 19percent and
21 percent respectively.

(b) Outcomes under Reform: Using the SIMSIP Simulator

10. Outcomes associated with improved governance and quality have also been simulatedusing
the SIMSIP education simulator. This simulator simulates educational outcomes and costs over a
period o f 15 years beginning with the implementation o f policy changes. It essentially performs
two tasks. First, it computes the number o f children enrolled invarious schooling cycles over
time, together with statistics on the efficiency o f the education system. Second, it estimates the
budget necessary for the education system to operate. The forecasts for the educational outcomes
(number o f students inthe system and efficiency parameters) are obtainedusinga detailed cohort
analysis. The cohort analysis tracks the pupils entering the system through time as they progress
from grade to grade. It uses information on repetition, promotion, and dropout rates per grade or
per cycle to compute efficiency statistics (the age o f the pupils at entry ineach cycle i s
incorporated in the analysis). Once the cohort analysis i s completed, the simulator computes the
cost o freaching education targets.

11. While the simulator i s relatively sophisticated, its data requirements arerelatively few. Three
sets o f assumptions must be entered by the user inthe simulator: country demographics, the
structure o f the education system (age at entry inthe various schooling cycles, number o f students
and teachers, coverage and extent o f teacher training, proportion o f system that i s inthe public
sector), and costs (supply-side costs, including teacher wages and teacher-student ratios; demand-
side costs related to the provision o f stipends to part o f the student body; investment costs related
to the training of new teachers and the construction o fnew classrooms; and administrative costs
related to staffing both at the central level and at lower levels o f government). Simulations are
provided for education outcomes or targets and for the cost o f reachingthese outcomes.

AlternativeScenarios

 12. The SIMSIP model i s usedto simulate the outcomes (and costs) o fpolicy changes associated
with reforms for Bangladeshinthe secondary education systems. While it is not possible to use
SIMSIP to simulate costs and outcomes associated with all refoms,l0 SIMSIP allows proxying
for changes inmany policy variables that the government i s intending to implement in the
secondary education sector and estimatingrelated costs and outcomes. This section presents the
outcomes associated with alternative scenarios o freform. The model differentiates between
secondary education (grades 6-10) and higher secondary education (grades 11-12).




 lo
  For example,usingthis modelit is difficult to simulate outcomeand cost implicationso ftextbookandcurriculum
reforms. HoweverNCTB is self-financing, and so reformsare assumedto becost-neutral.



                                                         56

13. The model has been usedto simulate and proxy for five scenarios:

    Scenario I-This i s the baseline scenario. N o policy changes are implemented. The system
operates as at present;

    Scenario 11- The government does i s to buildnew and better classrooms. These changes are
proxied inSIMSIP through increasing the constructioncosts and lowering the student teacher
ratio;

    Scenario III-Management related changes are implemented inthe system. This implies that
the system o f registrationof schools and colleges i s enforced by MOE, the MPO system i s
tightened, and over time greater devolution i s introduced into the system with greater proportion
of the financing also coming from communities. InSIMSIP, these are proxied for through
changes inextent o f fundinggoing to private schools (e.g.better enforcement o fregulations will
imply that the government funds fewer though better quality schools; similarly greater
community participationin financing will reduce the government burden); and changes in
administrative costs (devolution o f authority to lower levels may lead to an increase in
administrative costs);

    Scenario IV- Teacher recruitment and training related changes are implemented. The
government hires more qualified teachers, invests more inteacher training and inensuring that
teachers are meeting training standards. InSIMSIP, these are proxied for through increases in
proportion o f teachers trained, increases inteacher salaries, and a reduction inpupilteacher ratio.

     Scenario V- This i s a combination scenarios 11-IV,i.e. the government undertakes
infrastructural changes but simultaneously puts inplace and implements policies aimed at
improving the management o f the secondary and vocational system, and ensuring highstandards
are maintained inteacher recruitment and training. Furthermore changes aimed at improvingthe
content, timeliness and quality of textbooks and curriculum are also implemented (these are
assumed to be cost-neutral as NCTB i s self-financed).

Reform Implications: SIMSIP Simulations

Gross Enrollments

 14. Currently, gross enrollment rates at the secondary level are close to 50 percent and at the
higher secondary level are about 17 percent. Table 3 presents increases inenrollments the gross
enrollment rate under different scenarios."     Over a 15 year period, enrollment rates rise most
rapidly under Scenario V inboth secondary and higher secondary education.

                         Table3: PercentIncreaseinGrossEnrollment
      I                                                                                        I




 "WhileScenarioImaintainsstatusquo-grossenrollmentsriseovertimeowingtocountrydemographics



                                                   57

Completion Percentage

15. Table 4 presents increases incompletion rates inthe altemative scenarios. Current
completion rates at the secondary and higher secondary level are around 40 percent for the SSC
and 35 percent for the HSC respectively. As modeled, there i s no increase in completion rates in
the baseline scenario. Clearly the maximumincreaseincompletionrates, bothinthe short-run as
well as inthe long-term occurs under scenario V -when all reform measures are implemented.




Years to Complete

16. Table 5 presents the average decrease inyears to complete the two levels of schooling. On
average, the years to complete the five year secondary education cycle in2001/2 was about 6.5
years, while the average years to complete higher secondary education was close to 3.5 years.
Scenario V shows the steepest decline inyears to complete secondary and higher secondary
education.




 17. Interms o f key outcomes for the secondary and higher secondary educational system,
scenario V seems to be the most effective altemative. While this i s not surprising, as this
scenario simulates the implementation o f a range o f policies intended to enhance system
governance and improve the quality o f the system, a critical question that any govemment faces i s
that o f the cost and the cost-effectiveness o f implementing reforms. This i s discussed inthe
section below.

II.FinancialAnalysis

(a) Financing of Secondary Education

 18. This analysis examines the current and projected budget for the secondary education sector.
As it is difficult to get an accurate breakdown o fbudget data between secondary and higher
secondary education, the analysis inthis section presents budgets for the entire secondary


                                                   58

education sector - grades 6-12. The results under two cases are presented here: a base-case
scenario and a highgrowth scenario (Tables 6 and 7).

19. The base-case utilizes conservative assumptions regarding GDP projections and growth rates,
based on projections from the medium-term macroeconomic framework, jointly agreed with the
IMF and the WorldBank. GDP growthrate is assumed to be constant at 4.0 percent from 2003-
08. This implies that Government maintains sound macroeconomic management and proceeds
with implementing the reformagenda. Total governmentbudget as a percentage o f absolute GDP
i s taken from IMF estimates and i s projectedto increase at a nominal rate from 14.5 percent in
2001-02 to 15.5 percent in2007-08. The proportion o f education sector budget to Government o f
Bangladesh i s projected to remain constant at the 2001-02 level o f 15.3 percent over the period
2003-08. And the proportion o f education budget going to the secondary sector i s maintained at
2001-02 level o f 43.1 percent Finally, we assume that recurrent and developmental spending, as
                                .
a proportion o f secondary education budget, remain constant at 75 percent and 25 percent
respectively.

20. The results o f the base-case show that total government budget as a percentage o f GDP could
increase by about 36 percent over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billion in 2001-02 to $9.2
billion in 2007-08. Education and universal primary education more specifically i s a priority for
the GOB. As a result o f increase the increase inoverall government budget, the allocation for
education i s projected to increase by approximately 35 percent over the period 2003-08, from
$1.02 billion in 2001-02 to $1.38 billion in2007-08. Out o f the total allocation to education, the
share o f the secondary budget could increase inreal terms over the period 2003-08, from $0.440
billion to $0.607 billion in2007-08.




   Proportionof Government Budget
   to education (%)                    15       15.3     15.3     15.3     15.3     15.3    15.3
   Total Governmentbudget for
   education (US$ billions)            1.02      1.17    1.23     1.26      1.31    1.35     1.41
   Proportion o f educationbudget to
   secondaryeducation(%)               43.1     43.1     43.1     43.1      43.1    43.1    43.1
   Total secondary education
   budget (US%billions)               0.44~0    0.506    0.529   0.543     0.565   0.584    0.607
    ,,,of which recurrent (US$
   billions)                          0.326     0.375    0.392   0.403     0.419   0.433    0.450

    ,,.ofwhichdevelopment(US$
   billions)                          0.114     0.131    0.137   0.140     0.146   0.151    0.157

21. Inthe case o f high-growth, GDP projections and growth rates based on higheconomic
 growth scenario from IMFprojections. GDP growth rate i s assumed to increase from 3.8 percent
in2001-02 to 6.5 percentin2003-08. Total govemment budget as apercentage o f absolute GDP
i s taken from IMF estimates and i s projected to increase from 14.5 percent in 2001-02 to 16.3



                                                  59

percent in 2007-08. The proportion o f education sector budget to Government o f Bangladeshi s
projected to increase nominally from 15 percent in2001-02 to 16percentin2007-08. And, the
proportion o f education budget going to secondary education i s projected to increase from 43.1
percent in 2001-02 to 46.1 percent by 2007-08 (a halfpercentage point increase annually). We
continue to assume that recurrent and developmental expenditures, as a proportion o f secondary
education budget, remain constant at 75 percent and 25 percent respectively.

22. The results (Table 7) show that total government budget as a percentage o f GDP could
increase by about 60 percent over the period 2003-08, from $6.78 billion in2001-02 to $10.87
billion in 2007-08. As a result o f increase the increase in overall government budget, the
allocation for education i s projectedto increase by approximately 70 percent over the period
2003-08, from $1-02billion in2001-02 to $1.74 billion in 2007-08. Out o f the total allocation to
education, the share o f secondary education, in absolute terms could increase by about 80 percent
over the period 2003-08, from $0.440 billion in2001-02 to $0.802 billion in2007-08. The
recurrent expenditure will increase correspondingly from $0.326 millionto $0.595 million and
the development expenditures from $0.114 million to $0.208 million.

      Table 7: HighGrowth CaseForecastsfor Secondary EducationBudget 2003-08




(b) Sustainability of SecondaryEducation Expenditures

23. Implementing reforms entails costs. Based on the cost analysis usingthe SIMSIP simulator,
this section attempts to simulate and assessthe costs associatedwith implementingreforms aimed
at enhancing the quality and governance o f the system, and assess whether these costs are
sustainable.

24. Inall five scenarios simulated through the SIMSIP simulator, the government would have to
increase its expenditure on education (Table 8). Evento maintainstatus quo -with no
improvements incompletion rates or inaverage years to complete the level, the government
would have to spend about $32 million a year more than presently by 2008 and $132 million



                                                   GO

more per year by 2018. When the government begins to implement reforms - especially under
scenarios 111-V,the cost rises substantially. For example, implementing better practices in
teaching and recruitment o f teachers (Scenario IV) would cost an addition $86 milliodannum in
real terms by 2008 (and $344 million per annumby 2018). Interesting, reforms improving
system management (Scenario 111) are cheaper - while they yield fairly similar outcomes to
Scenario IV. The mainreason behind this i s probably that improved system management
involves factors such as buildingmore capacity at the upazila and district level which could
result in higher costs, while at the same time better enforcement o f MPOregulations will ensure
that the government funds fewer schools thusreducing costs. Scenario V, inwhich all reforms
are implemented would need increased investments to the tune o f approximately $96 milliodyear
by 2008 and $384 million a year more by 2018. Hence, under this scenario the government
would almost double its current investments insecondary and higher secondary education inreal
terms by 2018.

25. I s this increasedinvestment inreforms cost-effective? Current unitcosts per completer are
roughly $80 and $181 in secondary and higher secondary educationrespectively. Table 9
examines this issue by looking at the unit cost/completer.




26. The answer to the question is yes - reforms have a significantly positive impact onreduction
inunitcosts per completer(byabout 20 percent at the secondary level and 70percent atthe
higher secondary level by 2018). It i s important to recognize that most savings are realized when
all reforms are implemented simultaneously (scenario V).




 27.       Ifthe governmentaims to undertake reforms as described inScenarioV, Chart 1shows
 the distribution o f costs between recurrent costs, demand-side costs, and investment costs.
 Recurring costs (dotted line inchart below) are the sum o f the expenditures on teacher wage bill
 and the administrative costs associated with running schools. The wage bill for the teaching staff
 i s the largest fraction o frecurrent costs. Demand-side costs (solid line in chart) are costs
 associated with providing stipends. Supply-side investment costs (solid line inchart) are
 composed o f three main components - the cost o f buildingnew classrooms, the cost o f training
new teachers and the cost o f training existing teachers. Inthe Bangladeshi context (as i s true


                                                   61

worldwide), recurrent costs will be the major portion o f total costs. Inthis scenario, investment
                                                                costs are expected to start rising
                                                                slowly inthe short-run,but will
                                                                increase fairly sharply over time as
                                                                greater investments inteacher
                                                                training and buildingnew
                                                                classrooms kick in-by 2018
                                                                investment costs will be close to 20
                                                                percent o ftotal costs. Finally,
                                                                demand-side costs are expected to
                                                                remain fairly constant over time.




                                                62

.I
 P

5..s
cL




+Ce
-?
+5
 C
 E;
cc
c
r
.Lc
  c
  rc
  I
'F;
s;
  ;
  r
  I
 <

    P -
     x



?
sB
in
e
0
.I
Y
CI



L

k
0
.I

                                                                         International Monetary Fund
Public Lnfonnation Notice (PIN) No. 03/84                                700 19thStreet, NW
July 11, 2003                                                            Washington, D.C. 20431USA


rPublicAnnex G: IMFConcludes2003 Article IV Consultationwith Bangladesh
                                                                                                           1
         Information Notices (PINS)are issued, (i)the request o f a member country, following the
                                                     at
 conclusion o f the Article IV consultation for countries seeking to make knownthe views o f the IMF to
 the public. This action is intended to strengthen IMF surveillance over the economic policies o f member
  countries by increasing the transparency o f the IMF'sassessment o f these policies; and (ii)
                                                                                             following
 policy discussions inthe Executive Board at the decision o f the Board. The staff report (use the free
 Adobe Acrobat Reader to view this pdf file) for the 2003 Article IV consultation with Bangladesh i s also
  available.


On June 20,2003, the Executive Board o f the InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with Bangladesh."

Background

Since the last Article IV consultation, economic performancehas improved and macroeconomic
policy implementationhas strengthened, broadly inline with the recommendations o f the Board.
The economy has been ina recovery, ledby the agricultural and industrial sectors and aidedby the
strength o f domestic and external demand. Real GDP growth i s thus projected to accelerate to 5.2
percent for FY03 fkom the 4.4 percent growth rate recorded inFY02. At the same time, inflation
remains manageable, although it i s on a slight upward trend to around 5% percent, owing to rising
food prices which were linkedto higher utility tariffs and energy prices.

The external position has also strengthened over the past year. Following a fall inexports inFY02,
due to a sharp decline inready-made garments (RMG) prices, exports have recovered, risingby 6
percent inthe ten months through April 2003. Duringthe same period, remittances continue to be
strong, growing at an annual rate o f 24 percent, reflecting inpart a further shift insuch flows to
official channels. The current account i s projected to remain in a small surplus for FY03.
International reserves have increased to nearly $2 billion as o f mid-June, and are projected to rise
further to $2.1 billion by end-June 2003.

Prudent macroeconomic policies have contributed to these outcomes. Inparticular, fiscal policy has
been tightened beginning inFY02; revenue was raisedby 1percentage point o f GDP, mainly inthe
nontax area. As a result, the central government deficit (excluding grants) fell to 4.7 percent o f
GDP.At the same time, the monitoring o f fiscal developments was strengthened, especially with
respect to Annual Development Plan (ADP) spending.

Moreover, the deficit i s on course to fall further inFY03 to 4.2 percent o f GDP inline with the
budget as a result o f significant revenue measures combined with expenditure discipline. Tax
revenue inthe first seven months of the year rose by 16.7 percent, compared to the same period o f
FY02, suggesting that tax revenue for the year i s on track to improve by 0.6 percentage points o f
GDP.At the same time, expenditures inthe first seven months fellby0.8 percentage points o f
GDP, reflecting restraint inADP spending. This result was achieved despite a marked increase in
expenditure to meet reform costs o f state-owned enterprises (SOEs) (0.4 percent o f GDP). More
recently, the ADP budget has also been revised downward, to further prune lower priority spending.
Further, the structure o f financing for the deficit inFY03 has improved. Domestic financing i s



                                                       65

expected to be cut from 2.5 percent o f GDP inFY02 to 1.9 percent. Moreover, based on trends so
far, the share o f domestic financing through costly national savings certificates (NSCs) i s expected
to fall. To reduce future interest burden, interest rates on NSCs were reducedby 2 percentage points
and the four most costly NSC schemes were withdrawn inJuly 2002.

Monetary policy has been restrained since early 2002, and treasury billrates have been allowed to
rise, reflecting market conditions. Inthe year to March2003, reserve money i s estimated to have
grown by 6 percent, as Bangladesh Bank (BB) sterilized its accumulation o f international reserves
with auctions o ftreasury bills. As a result, short-term treasury billyields rose from4 percent to
8 percent over the period; at the same time, commercial lending rates remained at about 12 percent.
Broad money grew by 15 percent inthe year to February 2003, buoyed by strong growth in credit to
the private sector.

Exchange restrictions have recently been eased, and exchange rate management has been more
flexible, helpingto strengthen the external position. Inparticular, the scope o f the margin
requirements on letters o f credit for imports has been reduced, and limits were lifted inAugust 2002
on travel, educational and medical expenses, and on payments for other invisibles. Nonetheless,
Bangladesh continues to maintain exchange restrictions subject to Fundjurisdiction. The exchange
rate for the taka remained fixed to the US.dollar from January 2002 untilM a y 31, 2003, when the
taka was allowed to float. With the weakening o f the US.dollar, duringthe period January 2002-
M a y 2003, the taka has depreciated by 12 percent innominal effective terms and by an estimated 8
percent inreal effective terms.

The authorities recently have limited the contracting o fnew nonconcessional external debt. During
FY03, new loan commitments and guarantees on nonconcessional terms are projectedto be at most
$150 million, down from an estimated $350 millioninFY02. External public debt at end-June 2003
i s projected at $17 billion (33 percent o f GDP). Inview o f its concessional nature, debt inNPV
terms i s about 20 percent o f GDP and 101percent o f exports, while the debt service ratio remains
relatively low at 6.5 percent.

Steps have been taken to renew structural reforms. With respect to manufacturing, the government
has initiated a four-year program to phase out SOEs from this sector, starting with the
closure/privatizationo f key loss-making units.Inaddition to Adamjeejute mills, another 24 out o f
a total o f 150 SOEs have been closed so far inFY03. To ease this process, a severance scheme has
been adopted to provide safety nets for retrenched workers. Inthe energy sector, the focus so far
has been on tariff and pricing adjustments, to stem financial losses. Since October 2001, utility
tariffs have been raised by 8 percent, and the prices o f a wide range o f energy products have been
substantially increased. Inaddition, Parliamenthas recently passed the Energy Regulatory
Commission Act, creating an independent regulator for the sector.

Inthe banking sector, the priorityhas been onimprovingthe legal framework and upgrading
prudential standards. The BangladeshBank Order was amended to provide greater operational
autonomy to BB.The Banks (Nationalization) Act and the Banking Companies Act were also
amended to strengthen BB'sregulatory powers by bringing nationalizedcommercial banks (NCBs)
within its purview and to improve capital adequacy and governance inprivate commercial banks.
Moreover, a new Money Loans Court law was enacted that establishes specialist courts to deal with
loan defaults and streamlines the recovery process.

Trade reformwas given renewed impetus inthe FY03 budget, when the top customs duty rate was
reduced by 5 percentage points to 32.5 percent, and the number o f rates reduced to five (including a




                                                    66

zero rate). The structure o f supplemental duties was also simplified by reducing the number o frates
from 31to 5. The effective average tariff rate was thus reducedto 24 percent.

Executive Board Assessment

Directors commended the authorities' prudent macroeconomic management and renewal o f
structural reforms, which strengthened economic performance inthe past year. Economic growth i s
buoyant, inflationremainsmoderate, and international reserves have risen. The major challenge
facing Bangladeshnow i s to put the economy on a higher growth path with faster poverty
reduction. Directors noted that impedimentsto private sector growth, a weak banking system,
limited public resources, and natural disasters have held up progress toward achieving this goal.
Directors considered Bangladesh's National Poverty Reduction Strategy (the I-PRSP), to be a
coherent and comprehensive policy framework for boosting economic growth and reducing
poverty. They emphasized that poverty reduction will require macroeconomic stability and an
improvement inthe investment climate. For this, the authorities will need to accelerate structural
reforms, ease bottlenecks inphysical infrastructure, further invest inhuman capital, and strengthen
governance. Directors encouraged the authorities to more sharply prioritize pro-poor policies and
programs inframing the full PRSP, to ensure a full costing o f these programs within a medium-
term expenditure framework, and to broaden further the participatory process, particularly to
include parliamentarians, to enhance political support for the reform agenda. Furthermore,
monitoring mechanisms should be established to gauge the progress inreducing poverty and, inthis
context, additional work should be undertaken to better define final outcome indicators.

Directors endorsed the macroeconomic framework and the emphasis o f the proposedPoverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)-supported program on fiscal reforms, restructuring and
privatization of the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) and state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
more liberal exchange and trade regimes, and improved economic governance. They stressed that
for the structural reforms to be successfully implemented, the underlying economic governance
issues will need to be decisively tackled. Inthis context, improved accountability inpublic resource
management, judicial reform, and the proposed establishment o f an anti-corruption commission
would be especially helpful.

On fiscal reform, Directors welcomed the reduction o fthe fiscal deficit infiscal year 2002/03 and
the budget framework for fiscal year 2003/04, which i s consistent with a pro-poor growth strategy.
Directors noted the low revenue effort, and underscored the importance o f action to boost revenue,
particularly inview o f intended trade liberalization. They endorsed the extension o fthe coverage o f
the VAT and income tax and the strengthening o f tax administration. On the expenditure side,
Directors welcomed the planned shift inbudget allocations toward financing o f structural reforms,
poverty reduction and the social sectors (especially education), and the critical energy and power
sectors. To achieve the targeted allocation, it will be important to improve development project
selection and implementation, as well as transparency and accountability inexpenditure
management, drawing on the recommendationso f the fiscal ROSC.

Directors stressed that continued fiscal reform over the medium term will be vital, and should
center on a sustained revenue effort and a shift in spending toward investments ininfrastructureand
human capital to better support growth and the Millennium Development Goals. However, while
they welcomed the increased budgetary allocation to education, they stressed that the effectiveness
o f social spending i s at least as important, and encouraged the authorities to draw upon the findings
and recommendations o f last year's public expenditure review inguidingthe projected increase in
spending. To support poverty reduction, it will be important to promote the development o f the




                                                    67

rural sector, includingthrough a better functioning o f land markets and through sound microfinance
policies. For public debt sustainability, Directors called on the authorities to curtail domestic
financing for the budget, to exercise prudence inexternal debt management, and to refrain from
non-concessionalborrowing. Moreover, public debt management should be strengthened, starting
with an improved debt information system.

Directors welcomed the recent tighteningo f monetary policy and the greater flexibility ininterest
rate policy, which contributedto the successful float o f the exchange rate. They stressed that
monetary policy would needto remain firm inthe period ahead inorder to contain inflationary
pressures, support orderly conditions inthe foreign exchange market, and facilitate a further
rebuilding o f international reserves. Over time, the authorities would need to address some o f the
recommendations inthe Financial System Stability Assessment (FSSA) report regarding monetary
policy instruments. The completion o f the safeguards assessment o f the central bank was
welcomed, and the authorities were urged to address the critical weaknesses quickly.

Directors endorsed the authorities' SOE reform plan for the manufacturing sector, noting the orderly
divestment o f key loss-making units so far aided by the safety nets for retrenched workers. They
encouraged the authorities to maintain the momentum o f this reform, so as to substantially
withdraw SOEs from this sector within three years as planned and make room for the private sector.

Directors stressed that the serious problems o f SOEs inthe energy sector would also need to be
decisively addressed, in order to contain fiscal risks and ease critical infrastructurebottlenecks.
They welcomed recent pricing actions, which have helped stem the financial losses o f the sector,
but stressed that the effect o fprice increases onthe poor shouldbe mitigated through a well-
targeted social safety net. Directors encouraged the authorities to make further progress, in
consultation with the World Bank, by moving in a timely way to implement an automatic pricing
framework for energy, starting with adoption inthe near term o f an interimpricing formula. An
effective regulatory body should also be installed soon, now that the legal framework i s inplace. In
addition, Directors attached importance to resolving the inter-enterprise arrears o f SOEs inthis
sector inthe context of an appropriate restructuring, and to defining the next phase o f reforms so as
to permit a higher level o f investment in this sector. Plans to improve the pricing and regulatory
framework were considered an important first step, but the goal should be eventual privatization o f
the key enterprises. A few Directors noted the delay inthe corporatization o f the Telephone and
TelegraphBoard, and urged timely implementationo f the process.

Directors welcomed the recent upgrading o f the legal framework for banking regulation and loan
recovery, as well as the strengthening o f BangladeshBank's operational autonomy and supervision
over the NCBs. They considered the proposed approach to NCB reform to be a cautious but
meaningful start to addressing the weaknesses inthis area and inthe financial sector more
generally. The planned audits o f these banks should help indefining a resolution strategy for each
bank by April 2004, drawing also on the findings of the FSSA. Some Directors strongly concurred
with the recommendations o f the FSSA that all NCBs shouldbe sold off, and suggested that
privatizationbe included inthe resolution strategies. Directors emphasized the need inthe interim
to strengthen oversight o fNCBs and bank management, to restrict NCB lending, and to forcefully
address the problems o f directed lendingand outside interference inthe management o f these
banks. Directors also called on the authorities to strengthen anti-money laundering legislationto
 address terrorism financing issues and clarify the powers o f the financial intelligence unit, and to
upgrade capacity for enforcing the legislation.

Directors welcomed the recent move to a floating exchange rate regime, which will offer greater




                                                    68

flexibility inmacroeconomic policy management, better protect competitiveness, and enhance
Bangladesh's resilience to shocks. Directors stressed that more will needto be done over the next
two years to rationalize import taxes, reduce the effective rate o f protection, and remove the anti-
export bias, especially inorder to diversify exports and reduce external vulnerability.
Notingthat the authorities have proposed timetables for eliminating the restrictionswith respect to
the margin requirements for imports and the nonresident taka accounts, Directors approved these
restrictions on a temporary basis. However, a few Directors were concemed that these timetables
had slipped relative to the previous undertakings. The authorities were urged to set a timetable for
eliminating the remaining restriction on advance payments for imports.




                                                  69

Broadmoney (M2)                                               18.6      16.6       13.1       12.5        12.1

Money velocity                                                 3.2       2.9         2.8        2.7        2.7

Balance of payments (US$ millions) 41
Exports, f.0.b.                                              5,701     6,4 19     5,986      6,110      6,512

(Annual percent change)                                        7.9      12.6        -6.7        2.1        6.6

Imports, f.0.b.                                             -7,566    -8,430     -7,697     -8,224      -9,600

(Annual percent change)                                        4.8      11.4        -8.7        6.8       16.7
Gross officialreserves(US%millions)                          1,596     1,306      1,582      2,100       2,566

Inmonths of importsofgoods andnonfactor                         1.9       1.7         1.8       2.6        2.7
services
Memorandum item:
Nominal GDP (inbillions o f taka)                            2,371     2,535      2,717       2,996      3,284
 Sources: Data provided by the Bangladesh authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
 1/ Fiscal year begins July 1,
 21 Consists o f other capital, net lending, and food accounts (including check float and
 discrepancy).
 31 Starting FY02, central government fiscal positions are presented on a gross basis.
 41Balance o fpayments i s presented on the basis o fBPM5.

-Under Article IV o f the IMF's Articles o f Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members,
I

usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses
with officials the country's economic developments andpolicies. Onreturn to headquarters, the staffprepares
a report, which forms the basis for discussionby the Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the
Managing Director, as Chairman o f the Board, summarizes the views o f Executive Directors, and this
summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.




                             IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT
                             Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278
                           Media Relations: 202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772




                                                         70

                                               Annex H: BangladeshAt a Glance


POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South    Low.
                                                     Bangladesh   Asia   Income      Developmentdlamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                           135.7   1,401    2,495                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          380    460       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           51.1    640     1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                           T
Population (%)                                              1.7     1.a      1.9
Labor force (%)                                             2.8     2.3      2.3     GNI
                                                                                     per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                 capita
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)            34
Urban population (% of total population)                     26      2a       30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                              62      63       59
Infant mortaliw (per 1,000live births)                       52      71       a i
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                   4a                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)          97      a4       76
illiteracy I%ofpopulation age 15+)                           59      44       37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        100      97       95                   Bangladesh
    Male                                                    100     loa      103                    Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                  101      a9       a7

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                  1982     1992    2001     2002
                                                                                     Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 18.1    31.7    47.0     47.6
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                      17.8    17.3    23.1     23.1                       Trade
Exports of goods and servicesfGDP                  5.2      7.6    15.4     14.3
Gross domestic savingdGDP                          12.5     13.9   18.0      18.2
Gross national savingslGDP                         17.9     19.3   22.4     23.4                         T

Current account balance/GDP                        -4.9     -0.4    -1.7     0.5     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                              0.3      0.5      0.3     0.3                                          Investment
                                                                                     savings
Total debVGDP                                      27.9    42.8    32.4     35.8
Total debt service/exports                         17.7     16.2     7.3      7.7                        1
Present value of debVGDP                                           20.7
Present value of debffexports                                     105.4                              Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002  200246
(average annual growth)                                                             I - - - -        Bangladesh
GDP                                        3.8
                                            .. 50            5.3     4.4
GDP per capita                              1.3     3.2      3.5     2.6                             Low-income group



                                                           Igg2    2001     2002
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth of investment and GDP (%)

Agriculture                                        31.2     29.4   24.1      22.7    l5

Industry                                           21.1     22.5   25.9      26.4    10
    Manufacturing                                  13.7     13.9    15.6     15.9
Services                                           47.7     48.1   50.0      50.9
                                                                                      0
Private consumption                                88.4     83.0    78.5     76.6            97     98    99      03          01   02
General government consumption                      4.5      4.5     4.5      5.0              -*
Imports of goods and services                      15.9     12.3   21.5      19.0                      GDI     ' 9 - G D P


                                                1982-92 199242              2o02
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                         2.2      3.4     3.1      0.0    2o

Industry                                            6.0      7.1     7.4      6.5    i o
    Manufacturing                                   5.6      6.6     6.7      5.5
Services                                            3.7      4.8     5.5      5.4     O

Private consumption                                 3.0      3.7     4.8     -0.1   -lo

General Rovernment consumption                      2.7      4.5     4.5     19.2   .20
Gross domestic investment                           6.3      9.6     5.8      8.2            -Exports         ' 9 - l m p O I i S
Imports of goods and services                       2.3      9.4    11.2    -11.2




                                                                     71

                                                                                                           Bangladesh

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982   1992    2001   2002     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                         1
(% change)
Consumer prices                                     4.5     1.6     1.9
Implicit GDP deflator                        9.7    3.0     1.6    3.2

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                     8.3     9.0   10.1              97    98     99       00      01   02
Current budget balance                              1.9     1.4     2.1                   GDPdeflator ' 0 - C P I
Overall surpluddeficit                      -9.6   -4.5    -5.0   -4.6

TRADE
                                                                                                                         I
                                           1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Export and import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              1,986   6,476   5,929    0.woT
 Raw jute                                          106      67      61
 Leather and leather products                      139     254     207     6.000

 Manufactures                                     1,593  5,766   5,367     6 W 0
Total imports (cifl                              3,526   9,363   7,697
 Food                                              265     380     437     4"

 Fuel and energy                                    168    848     723     2"
 Capital goods                                    1,289  2,400   2,617          0

Export price maex (1995=100~                                                      3                               01
                                                    86      112                                            w
                                                                   115                  97   98     99
                                                                                                                     0 2 1
lmpon pnce index (1995=1001                         107     129    106
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           81      87     108

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               840   2,468   7,235  6,794   /IT
Imports of goods and services              2,759  3,932  10,103  9,061
Resource balance                          -1,919 -1,464  -2,868  -2,267

Net income                                   -97    -89   -264    -319
Net current transfers                      1,121  1,435   2,316  2,826

Current account balance                    -895    -118   -816     240

Financing items (net)                        387    635     490     35
Changes in net resew%                        508   -517     326   -275

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            1,600   1,307   1,563
Conversion rate (DEC, locaNUS$)             20.0   37.7    54.0    57.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       5,054 13,561  15,216 17,010
  IBRD                                        55     60      17      13                     G: 494 A: ,3
  IDA                                      1,270  4,534   6,439   7,063                F:565

Total debt service                           220    552     671     722
  IBRD                                         3      7       7        7
  IDA                                          9     52     143     156

 Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                            759    357     287     410
  Official creditors                         739    623     419     220
  Private crediton                            21    -19     230      85
  Foreign direct investment                    7      4     174      65
  Portfolio equity                             0      6       0       -6

 World Bank program
  Commitments                                571    353     296     479    A IBRD        -                  E Bilateral
                                                                                                              -
                                                                               ~                                ~
  Disbunements                               188    323     312     301    B IDA       D Other multilateral F Private
  Principal repayments                         0     24      99     112    C IMF
                                                                              --                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                 ~


  Net flows                                  188    300     213     190
   Interestpayments                           12     35      50      51
  Net transfers                              175    264     163     138

D                                       D                               -                                              p




                                                             72

