                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 32697


         SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                 THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH


       PROGRAMMATIC EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                   Credit No. 28371




                                 DATE: June 23, 2005




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without

                       CURRENCY EQUIVANTS
               (Exchange rate Effective as of June 1, 2005)

                 Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
                         US $ 1.00 = ....Tk. 61.0


                             FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1 June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
ADP     Annual Development program
BANBEIS Bangladesh Bureau of Education Statistics
BISE    Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education
BTEB    Bangladesh Technical Education Board
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs    Community Based Organizations
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
DIA     Directorate of Inspection and Audit
DfID    U.K. Department for International Development
DSC     Development Support Credit
DSHE    Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education
EC      European Commission
EED     Education Engineering Department
EFA     Education for All
ESDSC   Education Sector Development Support Credit
ESR     Education Sector Reform
ESRP    Education Sector Reform Program
EU      European Union
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
FFE     Food for Education Program
FIMA    Financial Management Academy
FMRP    Financial Management Reform Program
FSS     Female Secondary Stipends
FY      Fiscal Year
GBs     Governing Bodies
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOB     Government of Bangladesh
HSC     Higher Secondary Certificate
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
IIB     Independent Inspection Body
IMF     International Monetary Fund



                                     2

I-PRSP   Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper
ITEC     Independent Textbook Evaluation Committee
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MFA      Multi-Fiber Agreement
MoE      Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOPME    Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
MPO      Monthly Pay Order
NACER    National Advisory Committee on Education Reforms
NAEM     National Academy of Education Management
NAPE     National Academy of Primary Education
NCTB     National Curriculum and Textbook Board
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NVTB     National Vocational Training Board
PEDP I   Primary Education Development Project I
PEDP II  Primary Education Development Program II
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RIBEC    Reform in Budget and Expenditure Control
ROSC     Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
SBA      School Based Assessment
SBPMS    School Based Performance Management System
SMCs     School Management Committees
SOEs     Statements of Expenditures
SSC      Secondary School Certificate
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WDR      World Development Report




                Vice President:       Praful C. Patel
                Country Director:     Christine I. Wallich
                Sector Manager:       Michelle Riboud
                Team Leader:         Amit Dar
                                     3

                                  BANGLADESH
      PROGRAMMATIC EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                                   CONTENTS

                                                            Page No.

1. Program Data                                              1

2. Principal Performance Ratings                             1

3. Program Description                                       2

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                     3

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome        11

6. Bank and Borrower Performance                             12

7. Findings and Implications for subsequent in Series        13

Annex 1: Matrix of Reform Actions                            14

Annex 2: Status of Reforms Undertaken in the First Phase     20

Annex 3: Borrower's Comments                                 22

MAP




                                        4

                                  Implementation Completion Report

                         On Programmatic Education Sector Adjustment Credit

 Operation ID: P077789                                   Operation Name: Programmatic Education
                                                         Sector Adjustment Credit
 Team Leader: Amit Dar                                   TL Unit: SASHD
                                                         Report Date: 20 July 2004


       1. Program Data

                Name: Programmatic Education Sector               L/C Number:    28371
                         Adjustment Credit
  Country/Department: Bangladesh/ Human Development                    Region:   SAR
                         Department

     Sector/subsector: Secondary Education
               Theme: Governance, Improved Service Delivery

       KEY DATES
                                                             Original              Revised/Actual
  PCD/PD:      October 31, 2003                  Effective:  October 7, 2004       October 7, 2004
 Appraisal:    February 25, 2004                    MTR:
  Approval:    August 31, 2004                    Closing:   December 31, 2004     December 31, 2004

Borrower/Implementing Agency:       The People's Republic of Bangladesh/Ministry of Education
                 Other Partners:

STAFF                     Current                              At Appraisal
Vice President:           Praful Patel                         Praful Patel
Country Director:         Christine I. Wallich                 Christine I Wallich
Sector Manager:           Michelle Riboud                      Michelle Riboud
Team Leader at ICR:       Amit Dar                             Amit Dar
ICR Primary Author:       Subrata S. Dhar/
                          Pema Lhazom

       2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                  Outcome: S
                              Sustainability: L
          Institutional Development Impact: S
                         Bank Performance: S
                    Borrower Performance: S

                                        QAG (if available)                 ICR
                     Quality at Entry: NA                                  S
       Operation at Risk at any Time: NA                                   No

3. Program Description

3.a. Description of Program

The Context

Bangladesh has made significant strides in enhancing access to education over the past 15 years
although improving quality remains an unfinished agenda. Net enrollment rates have increased at
the primary level from 64 percent in the early 1990s to over 80 percent currently, while net
enrollment rates at the secondary level have increased from 16 percent to over 30 percent during
the corresponding period. Gender parity has also been achieved at both levels. These gains have
been achieved as a result of, among other things, innovative demand-side financing programs,
greater awareness and participation of communities, and public-private partnerships in the
delivery of education. However, offsetting this achievement is the poor quality of education
across the system, reflected in poor outcomes. Attendance rates are low, the curricula are of
limited relevance, and teacher-pupil contact time is very low. Out of every 100 students that
enter grade one, less than 10 complete grade 12 owing to high dropout and low completion rates.
Provision is also inequitable, particularly at the post-primary level.

Many of these poor outcomes are attributed to weak educational governance, lack of adequate
accountability, and rent seeking practices which have a stifling effect on the whole system of
education. Weak educational governance is one of the key constraints in improving the quality of
education at all levels. Accountability and incentive mechanisms and, checks and balances for
teachers and administrators are weak. Rent seeking is widely believed to be pervasive.
Information about student and school performance and teaching quality is made known to the
school management and to the education administration. The guardians, however, are not aware
of these because of lack of awareness, interest and partially because of non-existent or
dysfunctional Parent Teachers Associations (PTA) and school management committees in most
secondary schools in rural areas. This denies stakeholders an important tool to monitor schools.
Misgovernance in areas such as teacher recruitment, training, assignment to schools, salary
payments and supervision are the factors behind low performance and lack of motivation on the
part of the teachers both at primary and secondary levels. Production of textbooks is not
transparent. While community involvement in education up to higher secondary level has been
increasing, no significant power has yet been devolved to communities.

The Overall Reform Initiative

The Government recognizes that improving quality of education at all levels is imperative in
order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), meet Bangladesh's Education for
All (EFA) targets, and steer Bangladesh effectively in the global competitive market. It has
launched reform programs in all major sub-sectors of education to address this issue. At the
primary education level, the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) is being
supported by a multi-donor group to implement the Primary Education Development Program
(PEDP II) -- a six-year program of support which aims to strengthen educational access, quality
and efficiency. At the secondary and higher secondary levels, the Ministry of Education (MoE)
has finalized a medium-term framework for secondary education which spells out targets to be
achieved for quality improvements, and policy measures and specific actions needed to achieve
these targets. Some key reform areas include: (i) improving equity, financing, strengthening



                                                   2

capacity and devolving management of secondary education (ii) enhancing teacher effectiveness
and training; (iii) restructuring curriculum and textbook development functions including
privatization of textbook printing. At the tertiary level, the Government is preparing a 10-year
Strategy for Higher Education, focused on issues surrounding education quality and governance.
This strategy is expected to be the basis for the development of a comprehensive reform program
in higher education.

3.b. Description of the Operation

While the Bank is intensively engaged with the Government and other stakeholders in all areas of
education reforms, under this operation, it has supported year one of the reform program at the
secondary education level through a US$ 100 million IDA Sector Adjustment Credit. This was
considered a suitable instrument to assist MoE in undertaking the first phase of their medium-
term reform agenda. At the same time, the Government had also put in place a Poverty
Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) for economic growth and poverty reduction reforms with the
assistance of IMF, and IDA had provided two one tranche Development Support Credits (DSC I
and II) in 2003 and 2004 respectively, in supporting a subset of the Government's multi-sectoral
reform agenda. While these broader reform programs were complementary, the secondary
education sub-sector deserved more focused attention as the scope of reforms in these areas was
too large and deep to be covered under an umbrella operation. In view of this, the reforms in
secondary and higher secondary education were deliberately kept outside the ambit of the broad
reforms under the DSCs and were covered with deeper attention under the current operation.

The objective of the Sector Adjustment Credit was to support the Ministry of Education in
instituting and implementing substantive policy reforms to improve governance, quality and
relevance of secondary education. This credit focused on (i) greater transparency in the use and
allocation of resources through devolving and improving the efficiency of the system with greater
stakeholder participation; (ii) initiating reforms to help develop a transparent and high quality
teacher recruitment system based on agreed criteria and standards; and (iii) enhancing
competition in textbook production and publishing with emphasis on the privatization of textbook
production.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Overall, the achievement of objectives and outputs of this policy adjustment operation is
satisfactory. The Ministry of Education has embarked on a comprehensive systemic reform
program in the secondary education sub-sector. The hallmark of this reform initiative is clear
ownership by the Government as well as extensive stakeholder participation and consultation.
MoE has been successful in designing and implementing the first phase of reforms, and is
committed to deepening this reform agenda over the coming years.

This ICR examines the major triggers and prior actions endorsed by the Board, particularly
focusing on those in the Development Credit Agreement. It also reviews developments on these
initiatives along with their impacts till date. The matrix of reform actions is highlighted in Annex
I. Annex II provides a summarized status of progress on reforms undertaken in the first phase.




                                                   3

(a) Macroeconomic framework

Objective: To ensure satisfactory macroeconomic framework sustained over time

Achievements in macroeconomic development have been largely satisfactory

The economy in Bangladesh has continued to grow despite the impacts of the devastating floods
in 2004. Real GDP is anticipated to grow at 5.25 percent in FY05. Macroeconomic policies have
largely remained on track. The Government's fiscal stance has been prudent (Figure 1), although
revenue collection has fallen short of target.

The external balances of the country were quite strong in 2004, but were under pressure since the
beginning of 2005 due rapid import growth, particularly in imports of food, raw materials, and
capital goods.

                                                                             The medium-term strategy aims at
   Fiscal Performance                                                        achieving sustained growth, reducing
    (In Percent of GDP)                                                      poverty and ensuring fiscal
  12                                                                         sustainability. This strategy is
                                                                             underpinned by prudent
  10                                                                         macroeconomic policies and
   8                                                                         continuing structural reforms to
   6                                                                         strengthen economic governance and
   4                                                                         improve efficiency. It is critical that
                                                                             adequate resources are mobilized for
   2                                                                         further human capital developments,
   0
            00/      10/      02         03             04         05        and continued trade reform to improve

               99       00      01/        02/            03/        04/     the investment climate. Assuming
                                   20         20             20         20   continued prudent policies, a
          Central Govt. Revenue                 Central Govt. Deficite       favorable medium-term outlook can
          Domestic Financing                                                 be envisaged, where real GDP growth
                                                                             would rise to 6.5 percent, supported
by increasing private investment and export diversification. However, this growth could be
undermined by sustained high world oil prices, the impact of the MFA shock and internal
political imbroglio.

(b) System Management

The objectives in this area are to establish greater transparency in the use and allocation of
resources to schools and colleges, increase the accountability of non-government institutions to
funding authorities and local stakeholders, and develop a more devolved and efficient system of
management of the education system, with greater stakeholder involvement.

Objective: To enforce salary subvention system tied to school performance

The overall progress in this area is satisfactory

The Government has taken a number of measures to improve the allocation of resources and
efficiency of the secondary and higher secondary education system. Although 98 percent of the
secondary schools and above 94 percent of higher secondary colleges are in the non-government



                                                                 4

sector, a large majority of them are subsidized by the Government (Box 1). The subsidy mainly
covers the Monthly Pay Order (MPO) ­ whereby 90 percent of the salaries of teachers in non-
government schools and colleges are              Box 1: Monthly Pay Order (MPO) to Schools
paid by the Government. Receipt of
the MPO was not strictly tied to
school performance. While this                   · 98 percent of more than 17000 schools

support encouraged the establishment                 providing secondary education are non-

of many schools, it also created a                   government.

situation where schools lacked any               · 80 percent of the non-government schools are

incentives to improve performance.                   receiving teacher's salary through MPO.

The Government is now trying to tie              · On an average, 63 percent of the total yearly
the monthly salary subvention to                     income of a non-government school comes
performance of the schools and                       from MPO.
colleges which is a major step in the right direction.

To correct the systemic problem, MoE issued an Administrative Order in 2004 that schools not
meeting the revised performance criteria (e.g., with less than 40 per cent student passing
standardized examinations in grades 10 and 12) would be notified that their MPOs would be
stopped until they improved performance.1

Given that over 60 percent of the schools would fall into this category, and stopping MPOs for
these schools would seriously disrupt the secondary education system, the Government is
implementing this order gradually. To begin with, 1300 of the worst performing institutions
(those in which less than 10 percent of the students graduated) were served the notice in early
2004. 226 of these institutions, which showed no improvement in their performance in the 2004
annual examinations had their MPOs suspended. This unprecedented action, initiated by MoE
and complemented by local level meetings and information campaign involving the Members of
Parliament, and even Cabinet Ministers, has sent a powerful message down the system about the
importance attached to performance. This seems to have had the desired impact ­ pass rates in
the SSC (grade 10) examinations have risen to 50.2 percent from 36.9 percent a year ago, while
the corresponding numbers for the HSC (grade 12) examinations have risen to 48.2 percent from
39.4 percent a year ago. MoE will closely monitor performance of schools in the 2005 annual
examinations, following which other poorly performing institutions will be served notice
regarding the suspension of their MPOs.

Objective: To enhance equity in access

The progress is satisfactory in this area

Concern has been expressed that the tightening of criteria regarding school financing may lead to
greater inequity in access, with the poorer areas being the most adversely affected. MoE is
cognizant of this and is rationalizing its processes to ensure that students in `under-served' areas
have increased access to education. Table 1 shows the excess (and shortage of) secondary level
institutions in the six Divisions of Bangladesh. This distribution has been further broken down

1The Ministry of Education has started a School Based Performance Management System (SPBMS) as a
model piloted in 30 upazilas of three districts to measure the performance of schools against seven
indicators rather than just results in standardized examinations. SPBMS aims at overall quality
improvement of a school by enhancing teachers' participation. The teachers prepare a plan of actions for
academic development of the schools at the beginning of the academic year which is then monitored
throughout the year. This program will be extended to another 230 upazilas in phases.


                                                       5

by upazila, based on which MoE has identified 115 `overserved' upazilas2 and issued a circular
not to provide subvention to new schools being established in these upazilas freeing up resources
for other less well served upazilas.

Simultaneously, MoE is also implementing a program under which secondary schools are being
set up in 60 of the most economically disadvantaged and underserved areas. Furthermore, a
means-tested stipend program is being piloted aimed at attracting poor girls into secondary
schools.

The Government is also implementing a program for constructing additional class rooms in
overcrowded schools to facilitate access to and equity in secondary education.

Objective: To improve monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of information

The progress in this area is moderately satisfactory

Inadequate data collection, monitoring and evaluation and its limited use for policy-making and
dissemination have been a major constraint in enhancing system effectiveness.

MoE has begun to address these deficiencies in several ways ­ (a) The capacity of BANBEIS
(Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Statistics), the data collection arm of MoE, has been
strengthened and BANBEIS has already completed a comprehensive school mapping exercise
and will continue to update it on a regular basis. This exercise will provide information on school
                                                                                    facilities, teachers, and
     Table 1: Divisional Distribution of under-served (-) or over-                  results of standardized
                             served (+) Institutions                                examinations. While this is
   Division                           Numbers of institutions                       a step in the right direction,
                            School      College      Madrasha      Vocational       the coordination between
                                                                                    BANBEIS and the planning
                                                                                    unit of DSHE and that of
   Barisal                     611            52             539            -71     MoE needs further
   Chittagong                 -276             5             -92           -145     strengthening in order to
   Dhaka                      -406           -15            -422           -235     ensure that the data being
   Khulna                      702          180             115            -109     generated is being
   Rajshahi                  1714           462             736             -60     effectively used for
   Sylhet                     -221           -23            -188            -98     planning purposes. Until
                                                                                    this is done, such data
                                                                                    collection and analysis will
   Bangladesh                2124           661             745            -718     have limited impact; (b)
  Source: BANBEIS, August, 2004                                                     rigorous evaluations of the
                                                                                    key demand side
intervention ­ the female stipend program are being undertaken with a view to improving
program design and effectiveness; and (c) expenditure and performance tracking surveys are
being conducted.

As regards dissemination, results of national examinations conducted at grades 10 and 12 are
published nationally and are also posted on the websites of the Education Boards. Furthermore,
in 2004, MoE has piloted standardized examinations in grades 6 and 8 and the compilation,

2`Overserved' upazillas have a significantly higher density of schools than would be prescribed based on the
regulations for the establishment of new non-government schools and colleges.



                                                          6

national publication and dissemination of these results are being institutionalized.3 These
measures will help education service recipients receive full information about performance of
different institutions, compare them and demand for services through informed discussion with
managers of the institutions.

Objective: To better manage the system of awarding recognition to new educational
institutions and receiving MPO subventions

The progress in this area is moderately unsatisfactory

There are fairly comprehensive criteria for granting recognition to newly founded schools and
colleges based on distance from nearest similar institution, land, number of students, physical
facilities, teacher qualification, performance of students in standardized examinations, etc.
However, these were rarely adhered to, partly due to the lack of capacity in the Boards of
Intermediate and Secondary Education but also because of the political leaders' influence in the
decision making process with regard to recognizing new institutions.

In view of these constraints, the Government decided to contract out the evaluation of schools and
colleges for awarding recognition and receiving MPO subventions to independent inspection
agencies/firms which would be selected on a competitive basis. The TORs for this task have
been prepared. However, there has been a delay in outsourcing this activity, mainly due to
internal resistance from the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education which used to
perform this function and were unwilling to give up its control. This issue has now been
resolved. By now the idea of Independent Inspection Body (IIB) has been accepted by all the
Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education. MoE is in the process of short-listing the
consultants for undertaking this task.

Objective: To ensure devolution of authority and greater participation of communities in
management of institutions

Satisfactory progress has been made in enhancing community participation

Bangladesh has institutionalized community participation in the management of schools and
colleges. Every school is required to have a school managing committee (SMC) and every non-
government college must have a Governing Body (GB). These bodies, which are elected every
three years, have an important role in monitoring the performance of the institutions and holding
them accountable at the local level. This is critical in absence of any central monitoring
mechanism on the ground. However, traditionally, SMCs and GBs have been subject to elite
capture and political interference - e.g. members of parliament and politicians routinely chair 20-
30 SMCs/GBs and often use this position for political gain/favor (especially in hiring teachers).
The political interference has led to an apparent lack of interest of community members and
guardians to participate in SMCs/GBs. Because of this elite capture and political interference, the
routine presence of some genuine guardians and community members on these bodies has not
yielded in the desired result of holding the institutions truly accountable to the communities.




3MoE is also piloting School Based Assessments (SBA) in grades 6-8 in 49 schools. Under this approach
a student's performance will be assessed based on two criteria ­ academic achievement (weight - 70
percent) and extra-curricular activities (weight - 30 percent).


                                                       7

In order to make the governance of these institutions more inclusive, the Government issued
gazette notifications amending the regulations of 1977 related to managing committees of
recognized non-government secondary schools and the governing bodies of non-government
intermediate colleges. These amendments ensured inclusion of the local educationists and
women representatives in the governance of the institutions, and required that no public
representative may chair more than four GBs. Beginning in 2005, all newly elected SMCs/GBs
are following these new guidelines. While it is understandable that this measure in itself cannot
be an adequate safeguard against elite capture and undue political interference, it is definitely
viewed by communities as a step in the right direction.

In addition to enhanced community involvement in the management of institutions, the
Government has established district and upazila oversight committees with an aim to devolve the
authority to monitor performance of the educational institutions and ensure public disclosure of
information about these institutions. While the functioning of these oversight committees has
been temporarily stalled due to some objections raised in the court regarding some of their
proposed activities, this issue is expected to be satisfactorily resolved in the near future.

Objective: To address financial management deficiencies in MoE

Progress in this area is satisfactory

As part of the reform agenda, MoE agreed with IDA on a medium-term Financial Management
Improvement Plan comprising actions to strengthen the Financial Management Unit (FMU),
improve reconciliation of accounts of various units with respective accounts officers, introduce
internal audit functions in various units and projects, and improve the resolution of audit
objections.

Satisfactory progress has been made in these activities. A budget monitoring committee has been
formed in the MoE with the Secretary in the chair for streamlining the budgetary and expenditure
control system. The FMU is going through a structural improvement process under the DFID
assisted Financial Management Reform Program and an upgraded management accounting
system tracking all the development project expenditures is now operational. Significant
improvement has taken place in accounts reconciliation due to MoE's directives and reminders to
its Drawing and Disbursement Officers (DDO). The process engaging private auditors for
independent audit of programs has commenced. There has also been some improvement in
resolving outstanding audit objections. However, significant progress in this area will require a
more coordinated effort with the involvement of audit directorates.

Objective: To streamline the procurement process and make it transparent.

Progress in this area is satisfactory.

On procurement for civil works, all agencies under MoE are using itemized bidding procedures
following the Public Procurement Regulations 2003 (PPR 2003). Relevant staff members in MoE
are also being trained in PPR 2003.

(c) Teacher Effectiveness

The objective of this reform is to develop a transparent and high-quality system of teacher
recruitment and teacher training guided by agreed criteria and standards.



                                                   8

Objective: To develop a transparent and high-quality system of teacher recruitment

Progress in this area is satisfactory

With the increase in the number of schools, there has been a significant increase in the number of
teachers. Currently there are close to 300,000 teachers in the system. In twenty years, the
number has more than doubled. While the teachers in the Government schools are recruited
nationally through the Public Service Commission, non-government school teachers are recruited
directly by the SMCs. Even though there are clearly laid out rules and regulations for recruitment
of teachers into non-government schools, these are not followed strictly and hiring in non-
government schools has always been subject to rent-seeking, nepotism and political interference.

To tackle this problem, the Government has embarked on a major reform in teacher recruitment.
While it is difficult to improve the quality of the stock of teachers in the short-term, this reform
aims to rapidly improve the quality of the flow of new teachers entering the system. The
Government is establishing a Non-government Teacher Registration and Certification Authority
(NTRCA) which would screen and certify a pool of individuals eligible to be hired as teachers in
non-government secondary and higher secondary institutions. While SMCs/GBs would still
recruit the teachers, it would be mandatory for them to choose from this pool in order to qualify
for government subventions. The draft legislation to form NTRCA was approved by the Cabinet
and passed in the Parliament in February 2005. Concurrently, MoE has formed three task forces
which have completed the preliminary studies to set up the NTRCA. These are focused on:
developing curricula and examination modules for teacher examination and testing; finalizing
staffing and logistical arrangements for the NTRCA; and drafting the operational regulations for
the authority. The Curriculum Committee has already prepared the draft curricula based on a
core framework of teaching standard and a minimum level of competencies for different subject
teachers and different levels of teachers. After these curricula are reviewed and approved, NAEM
will work on the standardized examinations for teacher registration and certification under
NTRCA. NTRCA is expected to be fully functional by October 2005.

In terms of upgrading skills of existing teachers, the Government (supported by the ADB through
the Teacher Quality Improvement Project), is developing teaching standards based on which
existing teacher skills will be upgraded and teachers will be gradually certified over the next 5-10
years.

Objective: To enhance teacher remuneration package in order to attract more qualified
teachers

Satisfactory progress has been made in this area

One of the factors responsible for the recruitment of poor quality teachers in non-government
schools and colleges is low remuneration. Although the recognized institutions received salary
subvention in the past, the teachers were not entitled to pension, another disincentive for quality
teachers to join non-government schools. This has long been a point of contention between the
teachers' unions and the Government. To address this problem, Parliament approved a legislation
granting pension to teachers of non-government schools and higher secondary colleges and
instituting an incentive system to attract qualified teachers. This policy has become effective from
December 2002.




                                                   9

(d) Curriculum and Textbooks

The main objective is to move the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) out of the
business of textbook production and publishing and focus on curriculum development.

Objective: To separate functions of the curriculum unit and the textbook unit of NCTB

Progress with regard to curriculum and textbooks is satisfactory

The National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) is responsible for curriculum
development and textbook production both at primary and secondary levels. The Government has
developed an NCTB restructuring plan to demarcate the functions of the curriculum and textbook
units to make both the units much more effective than they were in the past. The rationale is that
the two units require two separate sets of professional skills which would receive more attention
if there is a clear separation of functions. Besides, the curriculum wing was financed from the
revenues earned by the textbook wing in the past. This created an imbalance of power and control
between the two wings affecting particularly the curriculum related activities.

According to the plan, the curriculum unit will remain exclusively focused on preparing, testing,
revising, and disseminating curricula and on other curriculum related activities. It will be
disengaged from textbook production. The textbook unit will remain responsible for textbook
production and distribution through a transparent and open competitive process. The functional
separation of these two units has now been complete and the activities are being streamlined.
Accordingly, NCTB is allocating budget in keeping with the needs of the two with due emphasis
on the increased activities of the Curriculum wing. Besides, although NCTB is still fully self-
financed, its budget is now being approved by MoE to ensure regulatory propriety and proper
allocation for different activities.

Objective: To develop transparent criteria for textbook manuscript approval and
gradually privatize production of textbooks

Achievements in this area have been satisfactory

NCTB produces some 65 million primary and 26 million secondary texts annually. The Board has
been fully self-financed from production revenues and publishing royalties. However, NCTB's
evaluation of textbook manuscripts was not transparent in the past, particularly when it involved
private sector publishers. Competitive bidding was limited and open to only a few. Criteria and
ratings in the selection process were never made public, debilitating potential authors to make any
informed judgment. Printing of books also was undertaken by firms chosen by NCTB without
following any competitive process. Understandably, the situation led to rent-seeking, poor quality
textbook production, high production cost and unavailability of textbooks to schools on time in
the past.

To correct this problem, MoE formed a 21 member Independent Textbook Evaluation Committee
(ITEC) in 2004 which has developed a set of transparent selection criteria for evaluating textbook
manuscripts. These criteria are now being followed, and based on them, a team subject
specialists outside NCTB conduct the evaluation of manuscripts which are then approved by
ITEC and NCTB.




                                                  10

Textbook publishing for grades 11and 12 was fully opened to competition amongst private sector
publishers, and NCTB is executing a plan to gradually privatize all textbooks for grades 6-10. In
2004, publication of seven textbooks was privatized. This year, NCTB will privatize the
production of another 34 books. It is anticipated that the production of all textbooks at the
secondary level will be privatized by 2006 for the 2007 Academic Year (Box 2). Opening up the
production of textbooks to competition is leading to a significant reduction in rent-seeking and
improvements in the quality of textbooks produced. There has also been considerable
improvement in getting the books to the students on time.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Overall, the progress in implementing
reforms in secondary education has                Box 2: Privatization of Textbook Publication
been commendable and is reflective of        · As an initial step, seven books at the secondary level
the strong commitment of the                     have already been published by the private publishers
Government to reforms.                           in 2005.
                                             · 34 books will be published by private publishers for
However, challenges still remain. The            Academic Year 2006, including all 21 books for
program document referred to                     grades 6 to 8 and 13 books out of 18 for grades 9 to
political risks and capacity constraints         10.
as two major risks to successful
implementation of the project and            · Authors are given three months of time to submit the

these remain important.                          manuscripts. All manuscripts are to be received by
                                                 end of June 2005.

Initial delays in selecting service          · Submitted manuscripts will then be reviewed by

providers competitively for the task of          experts. To maintain transparency and fairness in

evaluating institutions for recognition          selecting manuscripts, names of authors are coded

and salary subvention point to the               and not revealed to ITEC. After evaluation and

powerful lobbies at work that fear               necessary changes, books will be published by

significant reductions in rents as a             December 2005 for distribution in January 2006.

result of these reforms. Similarly,
there is likely to be a significant pressure on the NTRCA when it is set-up to certify unqualified
candidates. It is critical that MoE/NTRCA continue to demonstrate current levels of commitment
in order to resist this pressure, staff NTRCA with technically competent people, and set up clear
guidelines/criteria under which individuals can be certified as teachers.

Throughout the development of this reform process, MoE has demonstrated that a key to resisting
pressure from special interest groups is full information about the reform process made available
to the stakeholders. MoE has undertaken an extensive range of consultations and dissemination of
information about the reforms, not only with government officials but also with the key
stakeholders ­ parents and children. In order for the reforms to succeed in the medium-term, it
will be critical for this dialogue to continue.

Another area of emphasis needs to be capacity building. Particular importance needs to be given
to building the technical capacity of MoE to ensure that it focuses its role on formulating policies,
financing, setting quality standards, assuring quality delivery, and monitoring and evaluation.
While steps are being taken in this direction, it is important that this process be intensified to
ensure that implementation of reforms occurs in a timely manner.




                                                  11

Fostering enhanced collaboration among development partners is also very important. For
example, ADB, CIDA and EC support activities, particularly in teacher training, that have strong
relevance to the reform process supported by IDA. To make sure that these activities are
complementary, that one does not affect the other and that activities are not duplicated, MoE
needs to play a proactive role in coordinating activities of different development partners

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Overall, the Bank's performance has been satisfactory. The Bank's task team was composed of
the Human Development, PREM, Financial Management staff and international and national
consultants who contributed significantly through country and sector knowledge. The Bank has
also been closely engaged in policy dialogue with MoE at all stages of preparation of the
operation and this collaboration has continued during supervision. Dialogue with key
policymakers outside of the education sector, particularly finance and planning, also played an
important role in ensuring broad buy-in for the reforms within the Government. The Bank has
also coordinated work on this operation with other development partners ­ most notably ADB.
Supported by ADB, MoE is designing an investment operation focused on teacher certification
and training that will aim to implement reforms proposed under MoE's medium-term reform
agenda.

The borrower's performance has been satisfactory. MoE has played a proactive role as the key
counterpart of this operation. MoE convened a 51-member experts committee in 2003 to
recommend key areas of reform. The committee's recommendations aimed at establishing a cost-
effective, high quality and equitable education system through governance reforms. To flesh out
these recommendations, MoE commissioned in-depth studies in selected areas. Based on this
information, as well as relevant work undertaken by development partners, MoE finalized its
medium-term framework, and led the dialogue with the Bank and other development partners for
support with the implementation of key sectoral reforms. In order to generate buy-in for these
reforms, MoE engaged in an extensive range of consultations/workshops with government
officials and other stakeholders at the central, district, and upazila levels. MoE's active
leadership of this process ­ supported by other key line ministries ­ has resulted in the reforms
discussed in this document.

The borrower's commitment, evident in its follow-up reform actions, is a testimony to the
sustainability of continued reforms that would bring desired educational outcomes in the country.
The Government, as discussed, has made considerable progress in meeting the second generation
triggers. Though many of the positive outcomes are to be perceived only in the longer term, some
results are already visible, e.g., better SSC pass rates, timely distribution of books, incentive for
schools to perform better, etc.

Efforts to efficiently manage subvention support, restructuring of managing/governing
committees of educational institutions, establishment of upazila and district oversight committees,
creation of NTRCA, and restructuring of NCTB are some of the appropriate steps toward
institutional development that will lead to improved quality of education. Understandably, it takes
time for these institutional development measures to show positive outcomes, but the
implementation of these measures in themselves constitute a strong signal about the seriousness
of the Government to ensure the desired impact.




                                                  12

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations in Series

This Programmatic Education Sector Adjustment Credit is the first of a series of proposed policy
reform credits in the education sector. The operation also has strong linkages to the overall
Development Support Credits of the World Bank and the Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
supported by the IMF.

However, it is also realistic to assume that future reform initiatives might face resistance. The
primary focus of the first credit has been to put in place institutional arrangements and policy
measures to tackle the governance problems. The focus of future proposed operations will be to
deepen these reforms. Key among these will be the establishment of the autonomous NTRCA
and increased emphasis on teacher training, continuation of the process of privatization of
textbook production at the secondary level and potential extension of this process to the primary
level, continued emphasis on linking financing of institutions to performance, and ensuring a
significant role of communities in school management.

For these reforms to succeed, it is critical that there is continued political commitment of the
Government to these reforms, its ownership of the results and public receptivity of the reform
initiatives. The success of these reforms will also be enhanced through upgrading the technical
capacity in MoE, and effectively using data generated from monitoring and evaluation of specific
programs and the system in general, for planning purposes. It is important that the momentum be
sustained, and that the programmatic approach remain flexible enough to accommodate lessons
learned from ongoing activities and changes in ground realities ­ while maintaining overall
coherence and direction of the reform.

It is important to note that the first programmatic credit was discussed, negotiated and
implemented at a time when the Government, overcoming its initial reservations, increasingly
fortified its position to carry forward the reform actions. The timing was also appropriate,
reasonably soon after the elections.

Given that the next elections are only about 18 months away, one apprehension for the next credit
is that the Government might be more risk averse to undertake significant reforms during this
period. However, the Government has placed its reform initiative on a strong edifice of early
actions which enjoy considerable stakeholder support. Its determination to go along with the
larger public good rather than to yield to small vested interests vis-à-vis education reforms is well
known. With a strong communication strategy, mechanisms for dissemination of information and
social buy-in for reforms, it is likely that the Government will be able to overcome the resistance
of any special interest groups, even in the election year, particularly as the benefits of these
reforms are widely evident.

Although initially viewed as support for three programmatic operations, the reform process in
education is a longer-term endeavor. The Bank could consider a longer commitment if
Bangladesh continues to show empirically documented and sustained improvements in
educational outcomes.




                                                   13

                                                                Annex 1: Matrix of Reform Actions
                                                        (Actions in Italics: Prior Actions to Board Presentation)

Reform Actions                         Prior Actions (FY04)                  Proposed Actions/Triggers       Proposed Actions/Triggers to            Outcomes and
                                                                             to be undertake by FY05/06        be undertaken by FY07/08         Monitorable Indicators
I. Overall policy           Satisfactory macroeconomic framework            Satisfactory macroeconomic       Satisfactory macroeconomic         Outcomes:
framework                                                                   framework                        framework                          · A stable macroeconomic
                                                                                                                                                  environment conducive
                                                                                                                                                  to growth and poverty
                                                                                                                                                  reduction
                            MoE provides Letter of Sector Policy which      National Education Policy        Satisfactory implementation of the · Improved education
                            lays out the medium-term policy framework       approved by Parliament           medium-term framework and the        performance as
                            and investments need for quality                                                 National Education Policy            measured by completion
                            improvements.                                                                                                         rates, pass rates and
                                                                                                                                                  other outcomes.
                            MoE develops and begins to implement a
                            national IEC campaign throughout the                                                                                Overall         Monitoring
                            country, including the provision of                                                                                 Instruments:
                            information on reform to staff at central,                                                                          · IMF six-monthly
                            zonal and district levels and to school                                                                               program reviews
                            managers and stakeholders.                                                                                          · BANBEIS statistics and
                                                                                                                                                  impact evaluation
                                                                                                                                                  statistics
II. System Management:      MoE issues administrative order contracting     Service providers hired for      Third party evaluation of          Outcomes:
Establishment/registration; out task of evaluating non-government           evaluation of schools/colleges   performance of service providers   · Under-served have
financing; devolution;      schools/colleges (grades 6-12) for: (i)         for receiving government         completed. MoE use findings to       increased access to
monitoring and evaluation   receiving government recognition; and (ii)      recognition and becoming         change evaluation process if         quality education.

and community               becoming eligible for MPO subventions.          eligible to receive MPO          necessary..                        · Transparency in use and

participation.              TORs for service providers to be contracted     subventions.                                                          allocation of resources to
                            finalized.                                                                                                            schools and colleges.
                                                                                                                                                · Greater accountability of
                            MoE identifies upazillas which are              MoE finalizes plans to establish BANBEIS completes new school         non-government
                            overserved as per criteria set out in the       new schools/expand existing      mapping exercise.                    institutions to MoE and
                            regulations for establishment of non-           schools in underserved areas in                                       community.
                            government schools/colleges. New schools        partnership with the private
                            set up in these upazillas will not receive      sector.                                                             Indicators:
                            subvention.                                                                                                         · School establishment
                                                                                                                                                  and registration



                                                                                     14

Reform Actions               Prior Actions (FY04)                Proposed Actions/Triggers      Proposed Actions/Triggers to           Outcomes and
                                                                to be undertake by FY05/06        be undertaken by FY07/08         Monitorable Indicators
                  MoE enforces Monthly Pay Order (MPO)          MoE issues administrative order                                      evaluated by
                  criteria, with poorly performing institutions amending criteria for receiving                                      independent providers
                  informed that their subventions will not be   MPO. Schools not meeting                                             for all new institutions.
                  renewed until they meet performance           revised performance criteria                                       · Random stratified
                  criteria.                                     will be notified that their MPO                                      sampling reveals that by
                                                                will be stopped unless they                                          2006, less than 20% of
                                                                improve performance within two                                       schools not meeting
                                                                years. Well performing schools                                       MPO eligibility criteria
                                                                will receive additional         MoE designs grants based             receiving MPO's by
                                                                subventions.                    financing plan for secondary-level   2006. By 2008 this
                                                                                                institutions acceptable to IDA.      number goes down to
                                                                MPO amendments applied to                                            5%.
                                                                vocational education/training   MoE establishes the National       · Enrollment rises by 50%
                                                                institutions.                   Vocational and Technical Board       in underserved upazillas
                                                                                                (NVTB) to finance and monitor        by 2008 [baseline TBD].
                  MoE issues administrative order that Grade    Grade 6 and 8 examinations      pre-employment training            · Gross enrollment rates at
                  6 and Grade 8 entry exam will be piloted      undertaken nationally.          institutions.                        secondary level rise by
                  beginning academic year 2004.                                                                                      five percent by 2006
                                                                                                                                     [baseline: 40%].
                  MoE issues administrative order that                                                                             · Pass rate in Grade 10
                  performance of all schools in grade 6, grade                                                                       standardized
                  8, SSC and HSC examination will be                                                                                 examination rises by
                  published nationally.                                                                                              15% by 2008 [baseline:
                                                                                                                                     40%].
                  Improved monitoring of examinations in        Examination reforms proposed                                       · Dropout rates at
                  order to reduce cheating in standardized      by National Education                                                secondary level drop by
                  examinations in grades 10 and 12              Commission adopted by MoE                                            10% by 2008 [baseline:
                                                                                                                                     30%].
                  MoE passes amendment to 1977 Regulations      At least 30% of all SMCs                                           · Average time to
                  on Managing Committees of the Registered      elected using new rules and                                          complete secondary
                  non-government Schools and Colleges           procedures.                                                          cycle declines by 15%
                  (SMCs) and BTEB regulation s of 1991 to                                                                            by 2008 [baseline: 6.5
                  state: (i) only the district commissioners,                                                                        years].
                  upazilla nirbahi officers, or retired                                                                            · Unit costs/completer
                  government officials nominated by them, can                                                                        drops by 20% at
                  chair SMCs/GBs; and (ii) any particular                                                                            secondary level
                  individual (other than deputy commissioners                                   100% of SMCs elected using new       [baseline: $80].
                  or upazilla nirbahi officers) can not chair                                   rules and procedures.              · Proportion of public



                                                                         15

Reform Actions               Prior Actions (FY04)               Proposed Actions/Triggers       Proposed Actions/Triggers to            Outcomes and
                                                               to be undertake by FY05/06         be undertaken by FY07/08          Monitorable Indicators
                  any more than four committees                                                                                       resources being targeted
                                                                                                                                      to the poor rises to 33%
                  Establishment of Upazilla and District       Third party evaluation of the                                          [baseline: 24%]
                  Education Oversight Committees in all        performance of Upazilla and                                          · Results of standardized
                  districts empowered to monitor school        District committees completed                                          grade 6, 8, 10 and 12
                  performance and ensure public disclosure of  and MoE implements                                                     examinations published
                  information (e.g. examination passing rates, recommendations of evaluation                                          nationally beginning
                  teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.)                                                                             2004.
                  related to school quality.                                                                                        · By 2005, 30% SMC's
                                                                                                                                      elected using new
                  Technical upgrading of capacity in MoE       MoE and MOPME complete           Cabinet approves time-bound -         criteria. By 2008, 100%
                  planning unit and direct linkages with       exercise to track education      action plan to devolve functions to   of SMCs elected using
                  BANBEIS established.                         performance and public           zonal and district offices, and       new criteria.
                                                               expenditures. Recommendations    specifying capacity building needs  · Random stratified
                                                               implemented by MoE and           at each level.                        qualitative surveys of
                                                               MOPME.                                                                 SMCs show increase in
                                                                                                                                      level of participation of
                                                               MoE and MOPME complete                                                 community in decision-
                                                               impact evaluations of stipend                                          making.
                                                               programs and modify design                                           · Satisfactory progress in
                                                               based on recommendations.                                              clearing backlog of
                                                                                                                                      reconciliation, and
                                                               MOPME establishes National                                             improved responses to
                                                               Assessment Center to carry out                                         audit queries, in the area
                                                               assessment of grade 3 and grade                                        of financial
                                                               5 students.                                                            management.
                                                                                                                                    · A fully operational
                  MoE uses itemized bidding procedures for     MoE rationalization plan for                                           financial management
                  civil works procurement and adopts bidding   Education Engineering                                                  unit in place with full
                  documents introduced nationally by the       Department (EED) approved by                                           ownership of MoE.
                  Central Procurement Technical Unit of        cabinet and implementation of    Assessment of grade 3 and grade 5
                  IMED                                         plan commences.                  students undertaken

                  MoE develops time-bound action plan to       Fully functional financial
                  address financial management deficiencies    management unit. Additionally:
                  relating to reconciliation, internal audit,  (i) backlogs on reconciliations  EED rationalization plan fully
                  response to audit queries and PAC            addressed substantially by July  implemented.
                  recommendations.                             2005; (ii) internal audit



                                                                        16

Reform Actions                       Prior Actions (FY04)                Proposed Actions/Triggers        Proposed Actions/Triggers to               Outcomes and
                                                                        to be undertake by FY05/06          be undertaken by FY07/08            Monitorable Indicators
                                                                        completed for all major units by
                                                                        March 2005; (iii) a system to
                                                                        track action on audit reports and
                                                                        PAC recommendations in place      Upgraded financial management
                                                                        by August 2004.                   unit functional. Additionally: (i)
                                                                                                          Continue measures to monitor
                                                                                                          reconciliation and block funds for
                                                                                                          defaulters; (ii) proposal submitted
                                                                                                          by MoE to MOF and
                                                                                                          Establishment Division suggesting
                                                                                                          options for continuance of Internal
                                                                                                          Audit outsourcing or having an in-
                                                                                                          house IA unit; (iii) continue action
                                                                                                          to clear arrears on audit reports and
                                                                                                          PAC recommendations.
III. Teacher Quality:     Cabinet approves legislation for              NTRCA formally approved by                                              Outcomes:
Conditions of employment; establishment of National Teacher             Parliament as Teacher                                                   · An effective system of
and teacher               Registration and Certification Authority      accreditation/ certification                                              teacher recruitment
education/training.       (NTRCA) responsible for "pre-qualifying"      Authority and fully staffed to                                            guided by uniform
                          candidates for teaching posts on the basis of perform this role.                                                        criteria and standards.
                          academic qualifications and standardized                                                                              · A national register of
                          examinations.                                                                                                           teachers with "qualified
                                                                                                                                                  teacher status" eligible
                          MoE assigns National Academy of               MoE implements a revised core                                             to be appointed in
                          Education Management (NAEM) as apex           framework of teaching standards                                           schools.
                          institution for teacher training. NAEM        acceptable to IDA specifying the                                        · Increased number of
                          given responsibility for developing teacher   minimum level competencies for                                            eligible teachers of
                          training policies and coordinating/regulating all teachers.                                                             science, mathematics
                          teacher training institutions.                                                                                          and English.

                          Teacher education standards between public    Administrative order issued by    60% of existing secondary             Indicators:
                          and non-government secondary level            MoE requiring teachers not        education teachers certified.         · Teacher Accreditation
                          institutions harmonized.                      meeting competence standards                                              Authority established by
                                                                        set by NAEM, to have skills                                               2005 and and all
                                                                        upgraded over a period of five                                            teachers hired from pool
                                                                        years beginning 2005.                                                     accredited by authority.
                                                                                                                                                · Reduction in teacher
                                                                        NAEM initiates certification      NAEM completes process of               absenteeism by 20% by



                                                                                17

Reform Actions                     Prior Actions (FY04)                Proposed Actions/Triggers         Proposed Actions/Triggers to              Outcomes and
                                                                      to be undertake by FY05/06           be undertaken by FY07/08           Monitorable Indicators
                                                                      process for all existing teacher   certification of all public and non-   2005, and by 50% by
                                                                      training institutions on the basis government teacher training            2008 [baseline: 25%].
                                                                      of clearly defined and             institutions. Institutions not       · 60% of secondary
                                                                      transparent criteria.              meeting certification criteria given   teachers certified by
                                                                                                         until 2007 to become certified.        2008 [baseline: 10%].

                                                                      Cabinet approves MOPME             NAPE fully functional and
                                                                      proposal to make apex training     appropriately staffed
                                                                      institution at primary level
                                                                      (NAPE) autonomous.

                         Baseline survey on teacher absenteeism in    Follow-up survey to measure        Follow-up survey to measure
                         secondary schools undertaken                 teacher absenteeism undertaken     teacher absenteeism undertaken

                         Parliament approves legislation on granting  Cabinet approves MoE proposal
                         pensions to teachers in non-government       for instituting an incentive
                         schools.                                     system to attract qualified
                                                                      teachers and reward well
                                                                      performing teachers at the
                                                                      secondary level.

IV. Curriculum and       Action plan for NCTB reorganization          Restructuring plan implemented.    Curriculum wing of NCTB fully        Outcomes:
Textbooks: Textbook      drafted. Plan specifies clear separation of                                     financed through MoE's recurrent     · Curriculum and textbook
approval and production; functions between Curriculum Development                                        budget.                                wings functioning
curriculum reforms       Wing and the Textbook Wing of the NCTB                                                                                 effectively
                                                                                                                                              · Improved regulation and
                         Transparent criteria for textbook manuscript Manuscript evaluations being                                              transparency in the
                         evaluation acceptable to IDA developed       undertaken by teams of                                                    selection and approval of
                                                                      contracted out subject                                                    textbooks.
                         Production of textbooks for grades 11-12     specialists. Independent                                                · Better quality textbooks
                         opened to competition.                       evaluation of textbook                                                    produced competitively
                                                                      manuscript approval process                                               in a cost-effective and
                                                                      completed and MoE implements                                              timely manner.
                                                                      recommendations.
                                                                                                                                              Indicators:
                         MoE develops plan acceptable to IDA          Independent evaluation of first    100% of textbooks for grades 6-10    · 100% curriculum wing
                         regarding opening up textbook printing and   phase of competitive textbook      subject to competitive process as      staff transferred to
                         publishing of books in grades 6-10 to        printing and publication process   per the National Procurement           revenue budget by 2007.



                                                                               18

Reform Actions             Prior Actions (FY04)                Proposed Actions/Triggers     Proposed Actions/Triggers to     Outcomes and
                                                              to be undertake by FY05/06      be undertaken by FY07/08    Monitorable Indicators
                  competition (following procedures that have completed and MoE implements   guidelines and procedures.   · 50% of grade 6-10
                  been used for grades 11 and 12) using the   recommendations. 50% of                                       textbook production
                  newly approved government procurement       textbook production for grades                                done competitively by
                  rules.                                      6-10 subject to competitive                                   2006, and 100% by
                                                              process as per the National                                   2008.
                                                              Procurement guidelines.




                                                                      19

                                                 Annex 2: Status of Reforms Undertaken in First Phase

                                          Actions                                                                            Status
System Management
MoE issues administrative order contracting out task of evaluating non-government         Administrative order issued and TORs finalized. There has been a delay in
schools/colleges (grades 6-12) for: (i) receiving government recognition; and (ii)        outsourcing this activity, from unit currently undertaking this function. This
becoming eligible for MPO subventions. TORs for service providers to be contracted        issue has now been resolved and MoE is in the process of short-listing the
finalized.                                                                                consultants for awards. They are expected to be in place by September
                                                                                          2005.
MoE identifies upazilas which are overserved as per criteria set out in the regulations   115 overserved upazilas identified (out of 480). Since August 2004, no new
for establishment of non-government schools/colleges. New schools set up in these         recognized schools have been constructed in these upazilas.
upazilas will not receive subvention.
MoE enforces Monthly Pay Order (MPO) criteria, with poorly performing institutions        MPO criteria subsequently revised to make subventions clearly lined to
informed that their subventions will not be renewed until they meet performance           financing in the SSC and HSC examinations. 1300 institutions informed in
criteria.                                                                                 2004 that their MPO's would be cut unless performance improved. 226
                                                                                          institutions which showed no improvement in performance had their MPO
                                                                                          payments subsequently suspended. Based on the results of the 2004 HSC
                                                                                          and SSC examinations, more poorly performing institutions will have
                                                                                          MPO's suspended.
MoE issues administrative order that Grade 6 and Grade 8 entry exam will be piloted       Examinations piloted in some districts 2004 and will be continued at a
beginning academic year 2004.                                                             national level in 2005.
MoE issues administrative order that performance of all schools in grade 6, grade 8,      Administrative order issued. Subsequently, all results are published at the
SSC and HSC examination will be published nationally.                                     upazila level (for grades 6 and 8 in upazilas where exams were piloted).
MoE passes amendment to 1977 Regulations on Managing Committees of the                    Amendment passed. Beginning in 2005, all SMCs/GBs being elected are
Registered non-government Schools and Colleges (SMCs) and BTEB regulation s of            doing so based on new criteria. Any individual chairing more than four
1991 to state: (i) only the district commissioners, upazila nirbahi officers, or retired  SMCs/GBs not allowed to chair any new committee.
government officials nominated by them, can chair SMCs/GBs; and (ii) any particular
individual (other than deputy commissioners or upazila nirbahi officers) can not chair
any more than four committees
Establishment of Upazila and District Education Oversight Committees in all districts     Upazila and District oversight committees formed. However, lawsuit
empowered to monitor school performance and ensure public disclosure of                   bought about in court has led to a stay order on the functioning of these
information (e.g. examination passing rates, teacher absenteeism, class sizes, etc.)      committees. This matter is expected to be resolved in the next few months.
related to school quality.
Teacher Quality
Cabinet approves legislation for establishment of National Teacher Registration and       Cabinet provided approval in 2004. This agency has now been approved by
Certification Authority (NTRCA) responsible for "pre-qualifying" candidates for           Parliament and gazetted on March 20. Three committees have been formed
teaching posts on the basis of academic qualifications and standardized examinations.     which have completed the preliminary studies to set up the NTRCA. They
                                                                                          are: (a) Staffing and Logistics committee; (b) Curriculum Committee; and



                                                                                      20

                                        Actions                                                                       Status
                                                                                   (c) Operational Regulations Committee. The authority is expected to be
                                                                                   fully functional by August 2005.
Parliament approves legislation on granting pensions to teachers in non-government Subsequent to parliamentary approval, this legislation has come into effect
schools.                                                                           in December 2002.
Curriculum and Textbooks
Action plan for NCTB reorganization drafted. Plan specifies clear separation of    Action plan developed and being implemented. Curriculum unit to
functions between Curriculum Development Wing and the Textbook Wing of the         exclusively focus on preparing, testing, revising, and disseminating
NCTB                                                                               curricula. The textbook to remain responsible for textbook production and
                                                                                   distribution through a transparent and open competitive process.
MoE develops plan acceptable to IDA regarding opening up textbook printing and     Action plan finalized and being implemented. Public Procurement
publishing of books in grades 6-10 to competition (following procedures that have  Regulations 2003 being followed. Production of all textbooks in grades 11-
been used for grades 11 and 12) using the newly approved government procurement    12 privatized. Production of seven textbooks for grades 6-10 privatized for
rules.                                                                             AY2005, and a further 34 being privatized for AY 2006.




                                                                               21

                                 Annex 3: Borrower's Comments


The Ministry of Education (MoE) has reviewed the ICR on the Programmatic Education Sector
Adjustment Credit. The ICR has been found well prepared and has touched upon ongoing
reform initiatives undertaken by the Government of Bangladesh. The draft report fairly reflects
the progress made so far in the secondary education sector.

Most of the comments made by MoE on an earlier draft version of the draft have been
satisfactorily addressed. Two comments that we wish to raise are:

(a) Concern has been expressed under the section on "Major Factors Affecting Implementation
Outcomes" that there is likely to be pressure on the NTRCA to certify unqualified candidates.
But MoE believes that, when established, the NTRCA will act as an independent authority and
such pressures are unlikely to happen because of the fact that similar government agencies have
been conducting public examinations at the 10th and 12th grades, intake examinations for students
in the highly competitive specialized education sectors (viz., medical colleges, engineering and
other public universities) and also the Bangladesh Civil Service Examination for recruitment of
Class I officers for all cadres including Education with the highest level of transparency and
fairness.

(b) Where there have been initial delays in selecting service providers competitively for the task
of evaluating institutions for recognition and salary subvention due to pressure exerted by certain
quarters, MoE's initiative in establishing an Independent Inspection Body (IIB) has now been
well received by all the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education and the process of
selection of appropriate providers has commenced.




                                                22

                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33340

                                    89°                                             90°                                     91°                                        92°

                          Tista

                   Panchagar   R.


                                                                                                                    BANGLADESH
               PANCHAGAR



      THAKURGAON                          LALMONIRHADharla
26°   Thakurgaon          NILPHAMARI                      R.                                                                            DISTRICT CAPITALS                                       26°
                               Nilphamari
                                                   T Lalmonirhat                 R.                                                     DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                            KURIGRAM                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                  DINAJPUR                            Kurigram
                                        Rangpur
                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                     Dinajpur             RANGPUR                     Brahmaputra                                                       DIVISION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                               Gaibandha
                                                   GAIBANDHA


                                   JOYPURHAT
                                        Joypurhat                                    SERPUR
                   NAOGAON                                                                                                          Sunamganj
25°                      R A J S H A H I                                               Serpur                                                                                                   25°
                                                                                                           NETROKONA                                                  SYLHET
                                                                  Jamalpur                                                               SUNAMGANJ
                   Naogaon                     BOGRA                                                              Netrokona                                          Sylhet
                                                     Bogra         Jamuna   JAMALPUR
                                                                                                    Mymensingh
   NOWABGANJ                                                               R                                                                    S Y L H E T
                                                                                                MYMENSINGH

           Nowabganj                                                                             D H A K A
                                                                                                                                                             MOULVI BAZAR
   Ganges        RAJSHAHI                                                                                               Kishorganj
                                                         Serajganj                                                                          HABIGANJ
                                        Natore                                                                                                                Moulvi
         R.         Rajshahi                          SERAJGANJ                     TANGAIL                           KISHORGANJ                              Bazar
                                     NATORE
                                                                                    Tangail                                       R.           Habiganj



                                                                                                   GAZIPUR                  Meghna
                                                  PABNA

24°                                            Pabna                                                Gazipur    NARSINGDI          BRAHMAN                                                       24°
                             KUSHTIA                                                                                                BARIA                                 I N D I A
                                                                                                                Narsingdi           Brahmanbaria
                                 Kushtia                            Manikanj               DHAKA
                   MEHERPUR                                              MANIKGANJ
                     Meherpur                         RAJBARI   Rajbari                    DHAKA       NARAYNGANJ

                              Chuadanga
                      CHUADANGA                   Madhumati                                                Naraynganj

                                       Jhenaidah            R.              Faridpur
                                                                                                           Munshiganj   COMILLA
                                                      Magura      FARIDPUR                    MUNSHIGANJ
                                   JHENAIDAH                                                                                Comilla
                                                 MAGURA                                         Padma
                                                                                                        R.
                                                                                                 SARIATPUR     CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                 KHAGRACHHARI
                                                         Narail                      MADARIPUR    Sariatpur    Chandpur

      I N D I A                     Jessore                                                  Madaripur                                                                  Khagrachhari
                                       JESSORE           NARAIL
                                                                      GOPALGANJ
23°                                    K H U L N A                                                                                                                                              23°
                                                                          Gopalganj                                                             Feni
                                                                                                                 LUXMIPUR                      FENI
                                                                                                                      Luxmipur
                                                                                             BARISAL                          NOAKHALI
                                                   Khulna                                                                           Noakhali
                                       Satkhira   KHULNA                                                          Meghna                       C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                   PEROJPUR         Barisal
                                                                                                              Bhola
                                   SATKHIRA                                                  Jhalukathi
                                                             Bagerhat                    JHALUKATHI                     R.                                                      Rangamati

                                                               BAGERHAT              Perojpur                                                                                 RANGAMATI


                                                                                               B A R I S A L                                             CHITTAGONG     KarnaphuliR.

                                                                                                  Patuakhali    BHOLA                                  Chittagong
                                                                                                  PATUAKHALI

                                                                                           Borguna                                                                                 Bandarban
                                                                                      BARGUNA

22°                                                                                                                                                                                             22°




                                                                                                                                                                       COX'S      BANDARBAN


                                                                                                                                                                       BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                             Cox's Bazar

                                                                Bay                                       0      25        50          75      100

                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS

                      BANGLADESH                                  of                                                                                                                MYANMAR
                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                              21°
                                                              Bengal                         on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                             acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                    90°                                     91°                                        92°

                                                                                                                                                                                          JULY 2004

