Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB476 
Project Name 
Programmatic Education Sector Adjustment Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Secondary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P077789 
Borrower(s) 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education 
Bangladesh Secretariat, Dhaka, Bangladesh 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 22, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 20, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 29, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bangladesh has made significant progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) on access to schooling.  Gross primary enrollment rates rose from 71 percent in 1990 to 96 
percent in 2000.  Secondary enrollments have more than doubled during the 1990s to about 8.5 million.  
At the same time gender parity has also been achieved at both the primary and secondary levels.  These 
achievements are particularly impressive when compared to countries in the South Asia region and other 
countries at similar levels of per-capita income. For example, Bangladesh's net enrollment rate ranked 
eight among ten low-income countries (India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, China, Indonesia, Kenya, Benin 
and the Republic of Congo) in 1980. By 2000, its rank had improved to fourth. Furthermore, in South 
Asia, only Sri Lanka has matched Bangladesh's feat of achieving gender parity at the primary and 
secondary levels.
 
  
However, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed.  Poor quality of education is an 
underlying theme which runs across the system and is reflected in poor outcomes.  Attendance rates are 
low (62 percent), teacher absenteeism is high (up to 20 percent), the curriculum is of limited relevance, 
particularly at the secondary level, and teacher-pupil contact time is very low.  At the secondary level, 
less than 40 percent of the students pass the standardized examinations at grades 10 and 12.  Out of every 
100 students that enter grade six, less than 10 complete grade 12 owing to high dropout and low 
completion rates.  
 
Governance is a key constraint on improving the quality of education and this problem cuts across all 
levels of education.  Accountability and incentive mechanisms and, checks and balances for teachers and 
administrators need to be improved.  Rent seeking is reportedly pervasive, from civil works construction 
to textbook development and production.  The government needs better capacity to monitor school level 
financing and quality of instruction.  Improvement of governance in teacher recruitment, training, 
assignment to schools, salary payments and supervision will lead to better motivation on the part of the 
teachers to teach and help curb absenteeism.  While community involvement in education has already 
Page  2
 
 
increased somewhat, power needs to be devolved to communities or local 
governments both at  the 
primary or secondary levels in a meaningful way.  
 
Recognizing that improving quality in the education sector is imperative in order to make substantial 
progress towards achieving the MDGs and fulfilling the poverty reduction agenda, the Government has 
launched several reform measures to address this issue. 
 
At the primary education level, the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) is being 
supported by a multi-donor group to design the Primary Education Development Project II (PEDP II) - a 
six-year program of support which aims to strengthen educational access, quality and efficiency.   
 
At the secondary and higher levels, reform efforts are being championed by the Minister of Education.  
The Ministry of Education (MOE) has finalized a medium-term framework for the secondary education 
sub-sector, which lays out targets to be achieved for quality improvements, policy measures and specific 
actions needed to achieve these targets, and a set of key policy reforms are being undertaken by the 
Ministry.  The government has requested the World Bank for assistance in order to leverage support to 
implement this policy reform agenda.   
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
This credit aims to assist MOE in pushing through the first phase of a long-term and ambitious reform 
agenda. This credit is expected to provide balance of payments support to the Government to leverage 
reforms aimed at improving system governance.  By changing the incentives for the financing and 
provision of education, these reforms will raise the quality and cost-effectiveness of service delivery, and 
at the same time, improve equity in access. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
This credit will assist the Ministry of Education (MOE) in undertaking the first phase of a medium-term 
reform agenda aimed at addressing systemic governance issues in order to raise the quality and cost-
effectiveness of service delivery, and improve equity of access in secondary education.  The reform 
agenda focuses on: 
• 
Increasing accountability of schools both to the government and to the community. 
 Reforms in 
these areas are aimed at more effective regulations governing the establishment of schools and 
developing mechanisms for linking government subsidies to schools to objective measures of 
performance.  The strategy also calls for greater devolution of authority to local levels of 
government, and strengthening school management committees to enhance the role that 
communities play in school monitoring and supervision.   
• 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination.
  Capacity is being enhanced to conduct public 
expenditure tracking surveys, and to undertake the impact evaluation of programs and policies.  
Furthermore, information on standardized examination outcomes, school performance, and on 
program effectiveness  will be disseminated.  
• 
Enhancing equity in access.
  Demand-side interventions providing scholarships to girls in 
secondary school will continue.  Means-testing mechanisms will be piloted to better target these 
subsidies to the poor.  Partnerships will be established with the private sector to encourage the 
establishment of schools in underserved areas. 
• 
Improving teacher’s quality through emphasis on teacher recruitment and training.
  An 
autonomous Teacher accreditation authority will be established, which will have the 
responsibility for developing a roster of pre-qualified and certified individuals who are eligible to 
Page  3
 
 
be hired as teachers.  An apex institution will be set up to be responsible for the management of 
teacher training and regulate training institutions.  This institution will also establish standards for 
new and in-service teachers.   
• 
Reducing opportunity for corruption and misuse of public resources in textbook production and 
making curriculum more relevant and demand-driven.
  Textbook production and publication will 
be opened up to competition.  The National Curriculum and Textbook Board will develop and 
oversee a transparent process of textbook evaluation and approval.  The curriculum wing of 
NCTB will be strengthened to enable it to perform it’s functions more effectively.   
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
  The proposed project will not trigger any safeguard policies. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Amit Dar 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3430 
Fax:  
Email: Adar@worldbank.org 
 
