Report No. PIC3138
Project Name                   Tunisia-Natural Resources Management...
Project
Region                         Middle East & North Africa
Sector                         Natural Resources Management
Project ID                     TNPA5736
Borrower                       Government of Tunisia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Contact: M. Mohamed Larbi Chakroun
Conseiller technique principal du projet
Direction gbnbrale des financements et des
encouragements, MOA
30 rue Alain Savary
Tunis, Tunisia
Tel: 216.1.80.26.43
Fax: 216.1.78.44.47
Date initial PID prepared      December 1995
Date this PID prepared         December 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       January 1997
Projected Board Date           April 1997
Background
1.   Tunisia has a fragile natural resource base which supports an
agricultural sector that contributes substantially to economic output
(17 percent), trade (14 percent) and to income generation for the rural
population. Despite decades of government effort to protect natural
resources, climatic and human factors (mainly over-exploitation and
inadequate management practices) have led to significant resource base
degradation. It is currently estimated that about 47 percent of
agricultural land is eroded, that 20 percent of rangelands have
disappeared since 1972, that 24 percent of shallow aquifers are over-
exploited and that the irrigation efficiency rate in many small
perimeters is only 40 percent. The gravity of the situation varies from
region to region; however, the arid and semi-arid regions of Southern
and Central Tunisia and the mountainous areas of Northern Tunisia are
the most threatened. Recognizing that past efforts have failed to
achieve their objectives, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which has
devoted considerable public funds to natural resource management (e.g.
since 1970, more than 1 million hectares, or a fifth of all cultivable
lands, have been treated; in 1995, the soil and water conservation
budget amounted to US$35 million), would now like to reorient its rural
development strategy away from a top-down planning and cross the
threshold to collaborative efforts with resource user groups.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience
2.   In 1994, the Government of Tunisia (GOT) recognized the need to



deepen its understanding of natural resources degradation and began a
Natural Resources Management Study financed under a PHRD Grant. The
Study consolidated lessons from experience gained to define a new
approach to natural resources management and establish priorities for
future actions to be included in a Schbma directeur. Findings have
shown that: (a) natural resources management is likely to be
sustainable ecologically, economically and socially only if practices
can be made sufficiently attractive to local populations so that they
adopt them over the long term; (b) the approach must rely on systems of
local knowledge and natural resources use as well as locally supported
decision-making, both formal and informal; (c) the administration must
be flexible in defining its contribution under a "social contract" made
with communities for resource management; and (d) a more integrated
approach to natural resources management is needed. More will be
learned from separate participatory initiatives on soil conservation
which are being tested under a UNDP-supported project and implemented by
a parastatal agency (Office de dbveloppement sylvo-pastoral du Nord-
ouest, ODESYPANO) as a component of the Northwest Mountainous Areas
Development Project (Ln. 3691-TUN).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.   Bank strategic analysis has concluded that the management of
natural resources must be improved to preempt the development of serious
constraints to growth in Tunisia's strategic sectors. The GOT,
recognizing the strategic importance of natural resources management and
the limits to its current programs, is committed to developing cost-
effective participative approaches to natural resources management. It
has requested Bank assistance and the proposed Natural Resources
Management Project is the result of collaboration in this endeavor. The
Bank combines attributes that are ideally suited to ensure the
successful planning and implementation of such a project --
international experience in participatory approaches, resources adequate
to finance a program which aims ultimately at a national scale of
implementation, a grasp of sector-level policies that are essential to
the reformulation of natural resource management strategies, and the
weight to foster administrative choices to decentralize decision-making
and diversify the existing skill mix at the MOA.
Project Objectives
4.   The overall goal would be to intensify sustainable agricultural
production and improve the environmental quality of farmlands and
rangelands through the participatory management of natural resources by
rural populations. This approach has been demonstrated by ODESYPANO in
the North-West Region and would be integrated at the Commissariats
rbgionaux de dbveloppement agricole (CRDA) level (Regional Agriculture
Development Office of the MOA) and tested in the three major agro-
climatic zones of Tunisia in an effort to design and implement policies
for sustainable natural resources management over the long term.
Specifically the project objectives would be to: (a) preserve natural
resources at a regional level while striving to reverse resource
degradation by developing integrated land management practices and
promoting sustainable agricultural development to increase on-farm
income; (b) promote partnership between the administration and local
- 2-



communities to increase the sense of ownership and responsibility on the
part of beneficiaries and administrators which should lead to better-
targeted and more durable investments; and (c) support decentralization
of institutions and provide tools to enhance policy analysis and improve
project planning and implementation.
Project Description
5.   The project would support the first phase of a long-term national
strategy to enhance natural resources management and improve
agricultural productivity through a participatory approach.
Implemented over five years, the project would test land-based natural
resources management interventions and would be supported by
institutional development, in particular to strengthen the capacity to
analyze the impact of policy options. The project would be implemented
in severely degraded areas within three CRDAs, namely: Jendouba in the
mountains of the North, Kasserine in the steppes of the Center, and
Medenine in the arid South. The project would have the following main
components: (a) Natural Resources Management Operations, including
Participatory Development Plans (PDPs), prepared by local communities
(Unitbs socio-territioriales, UST) to address their priorities for key
small-scale rural infrastructural investments, and Protection and Water
Recharge Investments in the three selected CRDAs, outside the areas
where participatory approach would be tested, as part of the strategy
for natural resources management conservation; and (b) Institutional
Strengthening, at both the regional and central levels, to support MOA
human resources and information systems and develop the incentive
framework for sustainable resources management. In particular the
project would support the establishment of a comprehensive information
system (Systjme d'information et d'bvaluation permanent - SIEP), which
would have two major elements: a panel to assist the MOA to assess its
policies and a Geographic Information System (GIS) to assess the impact
of the project on natural resources management.
Project Cost and Financing
6.   Total project cost is currently estimated at $54.3 million, with a
Bank loan tentatively placed at US$27 million. Co-financing
arrangements are being explored for technical assistance and training
activities of the project.
Implementation
7.   Experience has shown that successful natural resource management
requires the participation of the local populations. Community
participation would be catalyzed by ±animators+ (both male and female)
who live near the communities they serve (each would cover about 10
UST). Through an interactive process, animators would coordinate the
involvement of technical specialists and help local communities prepare
PDPs which would prioritize local needs, define actions, specify
investments and clarify the relative responsibilities of the
stakeholders.   This process would necessarily slow down the initial
pace of project implementation. Project implementation would also
benefit from efforts to decentralize management and enhance
coordination. Decision-making would be decentralized to each of the
- 3 -



three CRDAs, however the CRDAs would be linked to central technical
units. At the central level, the General Directorate of Finance &
Incentives (DGFE) would have overall responsibility to ensure cross-
Departmental, cross-CRDA, and cross-Ministry (Interior, Finance and
Environment) coordination. A National Steering Committee, with technical
and financial department representation, would oversee project
implementation
Sustainability
8.   Project sustainability would depend on: (a) beneficiary ownership
which would be obtained through their active participation in the
"project cycle"; and (b) cost-effective, multidisciplinary support from
the CRDAs and other regional agencies. The implementation of a
participatory approach through the CRDAs would address fiscal
sustainability, because management costs are expected to be lower than
in the ODESYPANO model, as well as institutional sustainability by
supporting decentralization. Impact monitoring capacity and response
mechanisms in the MOA, and capacity building at the community level,
would also have to be strengthened.
Project Benefits
9.   Not only would the project have a positive environmental impact,
but it would also support Bank and Government efforts to reduce poverty,
since the intended beneficiaries would be small-holders in rural areas
where poverty is concentrated. Improved management of soils and pasture
would reduce loss of soil fertility, erosion and dam sedimentation, as
well as enhance vegetative cover, increase the value and consequently
productivity of natural and physical capital. The direct benefits to
the project would be on-site productivity gains and the indirect
benefits would be reduced off-site costs of erosion. The project would
also integrate all relevant agencies into the project design process
and, thus, permit identifying and leveraging cooperative solutions.
Finally, through the project, decentralization would be strengthened and
involvement of local communities in the decision-making process
improved, thereby providing greater incentives for them, interest groups
and individuals to invest in natural resources management.
Project Risks
10. The first risk stems from the lack of experience in Tunisia with
the project+s proposed integration of participatory management of
natural resources into the CRDAs. New incentives for technical
specialists would be required, but for a transitional period these would
need to coexist with current work and budget-related incentives. The
second risk is that land tenure constraints to sound resource management
- which are moderate - would be difficult to overcome. However, some
solutions would be tested, particularly for collective rangeland
management, and land consolidation would be encouraged on a case by case
basis in the project area.
Environmental Aspects
11. Please see attached Annex.
-4-



Contact Point:      Mr. Laurent Msellati, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-5651
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 20,
1996.
-5-



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project has been rated in the environmental screening category
B and has been subject to a field-based environmental review. The
environmental impact of the project is expected to be strongly positive.
No major civil works are proposed. PDPs will include small-scale civil
works, e.g. hill-ponds, rural roads, and weirs for groundwater recharge
with potential local environmental impacts. Project impact monitoring
will continue throughout implementation and after effectiveness of PDPs.
The permanent monitoring and evaluation system will be located in the
MOA. MOA technical specialists involved in the design and
implementation stage of small-scale civil works included in PDPs would
be trained to mitigate potential environmental impact, e.g. from rural
roads and hill-ponds.
The project will improve productivity and sustainability of soil
and rangelands use. Improvement in resource management would reduce loss
of soil fertility, erosion, dam sedimentation, and vegetative cover and
value. Some small-scale civil works likely to be part of PDPs have the
potential for minor, localized environmental costs if improperly carried
out.
Collaboration between local communities, local administrators and
national experts has already focused on environmental activities. For
example, planting grasses on slopes and improving crops will reduce
erosion on hillsides, thereby improving soil productivity and
sustainability. Salinization will be reduced by developing drainage in
irrigated areas and integrating salt-tolerant crops into the rotation
cycle. Wind erosion will be reduced by encouraging the growth of plants
on sand dunes. In addition, natural resources monitoring activities
would help to improve conservation measures, e.g. irrigation water
management, and the effective control of residues from agricultural
activities.
-6-



