PUBLIC INFORMATION DOCUMENT FOR
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT I TO SRI LANKA
Project Name:              Sri Lanka - Poverty Reduction Support Credit I
Region:                    South Asia
Sector:                    Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID:                P081718
Borrower(s):               Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Finance
Contact Person:            Mr. Charitha Ratwatte
Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka                             ^
Environment Category:      U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared:         April 23, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date:  April 28, 2003
Projected Board Date:      June 17, 2003
1. Country Background
Sri Lanka today has a critical window of opportunity to reverse the legacy of two decades of conflict and
poor economic management. This legacy has caused immense human suffering and precluded Sri Lanka
from building on its notable earlier achievements in human development. Since taking office in
December 2001, the Government has sought to foster an enabling environment for private sector-led
growth and job creation. Recognizing the urgency for peace, the Government moved swiftly to enter into
a ceasefire agreement with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and peace talks commenced in
September 2002. On the economic policy front, the Government brought an existing Standby
Arrangement (SBA) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) back on track. As a broad endorsement
of the economic program, the IMF released the remaining tranches under the SBA in September 2002. In
January 2003, Sri Lanka's finalized Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), entitled "Regaining Sri Lanka:
Vision and StrategyforAccelerated Development", was formally submitted to the IMF and the Bank. Sri
Lanka's poverty reduction strategy, formulated through a four-year consultation process, represents a
departure from erstwhile policies of transfers and redistribution, to a strategy that aims at widening
opportunities for the poor and fostering private sector-led growth. On April 1, 2003, the Bank's Board of
Directors discussed a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Sri Lanka that supports implementation of
the PRS with focus on the strategic areas of Peace, Growth, and Equity. On April 18, 2003, the IMF
Board approved a new arrangement in support of Sri Lanka's PRS under its combined Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) and Enhanced Fund Facility (EFF).
2. Objectives and Description
The proposed First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 1) has been formulated to support the
implementation of Sri Lanka's PRS. Specifically, the PRSC I seeks to: support implementation of the
structural reforms contemplated in the poverty reduction strategy; facilitate shifts in the poverty
orientation of public expenditures; help fill the external financing gap; create fiscal space; and
complement the IMF's PRGF program in supporting fiscal consolidation. The PRSC I is part of a
proposed four-year PRSC program that would contribute towards the achievement of key outcomes in the
medium-term, including: (a) a gradual increase in the annual real GDP growth rate to around 7 percent by
2006--two percentage points higher than in the ] 990s under conflict conditions; and (b) a decrease in the
incidence of poverty from around 25 percent (lower national poverty line) to below 20 percent by 2006.



The PRSC I is structured around two principal components: (a) accelerating economic growth and
supporting private sector development; and (b) strengthening governance and public management, and
improving the welfare system. The first component reflects the importance placed on the promotion of
private-sector led growth in Sri Lanka's economic development and poverty reduction strategy. The
second component aims at helping address key weaknesses in public administration and public
expenditure/financial management.
Accelerating Economic Growthl and Supporting Private Sector Development
Labor Market Reform. The labor market is severely segmented as reflected in large wage premiums in
the formal and in the public sector. Wage differentials result from policies to protect selected segments of
the market. The PRS proposes the establishment of a flexible and efficient labor market through
reforming (i.e., amending) restrictive labor legislation. Public actions in the areas of civil service pay,
pension, and hiring policies will also help reduce segmentation of labor markets.
Financial Market Reform. A core problem has been the dominance of the sector by the statc and, in
particular, the very weak financial health of the state-owned People's Bank, whichi has negative net worth
and a significant level of non-performing loans. IThe objective is to improve financial intermediation by
commercializing People's Bank, promoting private sector participation in the sector (including in the
provident fund industries), and strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework for banking and
capital markets.
Lancd Market Refornm. The majority of rural land in Sri Lanka is state-owned but farmed by private
farmers, under varying grants and permits which restrict lease, sale, subdivision, and mortgaging. As a
result of these restrictions many farmers with non-viable holdings are trapped in agriculture. Efforts to
improve land markets include the removal of the restrictions on transactions by strengthening property
rights, which will involve the conversion of grants and permits to freehold deeds or titles, thus
establishing private ownership.
Power Sector Reform. The power sector--dominated by the inefficient state-owned Ceylon Electricity
Board (CEB)--has been a burden on the public purse. The PRS proposes to improve the regulatory
environment and unbundle CEB into generation, transmission, and distribution companies, with a view to
improving financial and overall performance and promoting private sector participation. This would
reduce the fiscal burden of the sector, improve efficiency, and set the stage for faster economic growth
and poverty reduction.
Strengthening Governance in thie Public Sector and Improving tlhe Welfare System
Civil Service and Administrative Reforn. There is consensus that in the past 25 years the quality of
public administration has declined. The causes include politicization and patronage, uncontrolled
expansion in the size of the civil service, administrative fragmentation, and a lack of transparency and
client focus. The PRS seeks to stop the decline in the quality of the public service by containing its
growth, ending political interference, streamlining organizational structures and procedures, and restoring
meritocracy.
Public Expendilure Management. Fiscal pressures from the protracted civil conflict weakened public
expenditure control. Resource allocation in conformity with public policies and the quality of operational
management were also neglected. As such, there is now substantial scope for improvements. A process
has been initiated to strengthen the public accounts system; expenditure planning/budgeting processes, as
well as expenditure execution; monitoring/control; and oversight mechanisms.



Public Financial Manageni'ent and Accountability. Institutions and organizations established for the
purpose of ensuring public sector financial management and accountability have barely evolved since
their creation. This has rcsultcd in less than adequate assurances that public funds are used for their
intended purposes. Several initiatives have been taken to improve the quality and timeliness of financial
reporting oni the use of public funds, modernize the public financial accountability framework, and
improve oversight by the Treasury of state-owned enterprises. Further institutional reforms and capacity
building are currently under preparation.
Welfare System Reform. The welfare systemn, of which the Samurdhi program is the most significant
component, has long suffered from serious mis-targeting. The problems of Samurdhi, in large part, are a
result of the politicization of the process of identifying beneficiaries. Responding to the need for reform,
a new Welfare Benefit Act was enacted in Scptember 2002 to rationalizc the framework for all welfare
programs, and to improve targeting of the Samurdhi food stamp program. Work is currently ongoing to
launch the new system in the near future.
3. Rationale of Bank's Involvement
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved in April 2003, is designed to support the
strategic vision described in "Regaining Sri Lanka: Vision and Strategy for Accelerated Development."
Accordingly, the CAS objectives are to: (a) support the peace process by helping reconstruction and
capacity building activities in the North-East; (b) support the efforts to bolster economic growth, through
in part implementation of structural reforms aimed at removing constraints to private sector activity and
growth in all sectors, including in rural areas; and (c) help enhance equity in terms of access to and
quality of public services. The proposed PRSC I is an integral part of the Bank's overall country
assistance strategy to support the implementation of Sri Lanka's PRS. The design of PRSC I builds on
the findings of several pieces of analytical work completed by the Bank over the last few years--including
a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR), a report on Promoting Agricultural and Rural Non-Farm Sector Growth, and a number of other
sectoral and economy-wide studies--all of which help to underpin the proposed program. The entire
PRSC program would overlap with the PRSP period, supporting the implementation of the poverty
reduction strategy in an integrated manner, within the Bank's focus areas.
4. Financing
The borrower is the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The amount of the proposed PRSC I is
US$125 million equivalent to be disbursed in one tranche.
5. Implementation
The Government has established twelve committees responsible for implementation in each of the areas
defined in the poverty reduction strategy. Staff from the Ministry of Policy Development and
Implementation (MPDI) and from the National Planning Department (NPD) will support the steering
committees. Also a monitoring team will be established, led by the National Operations Room (NOR) of
the MPDI, with officials from the NPD, the External Resources Department, the Department of Census,
and the Central Bank, and representatives from the private sectors, academic/research institutions, NGOs,
and donor agencies. The specific liaison and implementation arrangements for the PRSC program are
coordinated through the Ministry of Finance.



6. Sustainability, Social Impact and Poverty Monitoring
The likelihood that the reform program will be sustainable is high. Nevertheless, program sustainability
faces several risks, including: (a) a resumption of hostilities and the derailment of the peace process; (b)
the present political setting; (c) opposition to economic reforms by interest groups; and (d) a heavy
external dependence. Of these, thc first two are the most critical. However, there is every indication of
strong commitment from both sides to the peace process. Domestic political risks are always present but
should be tractable so long as the Government retains the confidence of Parliament. Successful
implementation of the reform program and progress in the peace process would also serve to mitigate
domestic political risks.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an essential part of Sri Lanka's poverty reduction strategy, which
incorporates arrangements to strengthen monitoring capacity and fill gaps in data and information. The
M&E framework has five components: (a) rationalization of existing surveys--like the Household Income
and Expenditure Survey and Consumer Finance and Socio-Economic Survey--to regularize their
periodicity, synchronize their timing, and strengthen them; (b) introduction of a mechanism to track the
poverty and social impacts of policy changes; (c) preparation of surveys of the North-East region so that
poverty and other human development indicators can be better understood; (d) implementation of a
participatory component assessing consumer satisfaction issues and regularizing a broad-based
monitoring team; and (e) implementation of improvements in institutional arrangements to coordinate the
M&E system, including enhancing the capacity of the Department of Census and Statistics.
7. Environment
The basic principles and elements for good environmental management are in place, but a number of
important issues remain to be addressed, particularly with regard to the Project Approving Agencies
system and the structure and capacity of the Central Environmental Authority. A main concern is the
relatively weak implementation of existing environmental regulations. The next steps include upgrading
policies, regulations and procedures, and raising the implementation capacity of environmental agencies.
A set of these policy and capacity building initiatives will be supported by the PRSC program. In
addition, the high degree of collaboration in the environmental area between the Bank and Asian
Development Bank (AsDB) is expected to continue.
8. Contact Point
Task Manager
Mr. Tercan Baysan
Lead Economist for Sri Lanka
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C., 20433 USA
Telephone:    202-473-9745
Fax:   202-522-0356



