               Document of
             The World Bank




                                           Report No: 33919

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (IDA-37850)

                  ON A

                 CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 90.7 MILLION

                 TO THE

DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                 FOR A

 FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT




              October 31, 2005

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective )

     Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee
        Rs. 101.36 = US$ 0.0981
             US$ 1 = Rs. 101.36

           FISCAL YEAR
      January 1    December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
BOC            Bank of Ceylon
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEB            Ceylon Electricity Board
CFA            Ceasefire Agreement
DPR            Development Policy Review
EFF            Extended Financial Facility
ERTA           Economic Reform Technical Assistance
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
ETF            Employees' Trust Fund
FMRA           Fiscal Management Responsibility Act
FSAP           Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOSL           Government of Sri Lanka
JBIC           Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JSA            Joint Staff Assessment
LDO            Land Development Ordinance
LTTE           Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelm
MDGs           Millennium Development Goals
PB             People`s Bank
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS            Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSCs          First Poverty Redaction Support Credits
PSDAC          Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
PUCSL          Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
RTA            Registration of Title Act
SLFP           Sri Lanka Freedom Party
SOEs           State Owned Enterprises
TEWA           Termination of Employment of Workmen's Act
UNP            Unite National Party
UPFA           United People's Freedom Alliance
VAT            Value Added Tax
VRS            Voluntary Retirement Scheme


    Vice President:     Praful C. Patel, SARVP
  Country Director      Peter C. Harrold, SACSL
    Sector Director     Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
 Task Team Leader       Rocio Castro, SASPR

                                         SRI LANKA
                                           LK-PRSC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P081718                                                  Project Name: LK-PRSC
Team Leader: Rocio Castro                                            TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: LK-PRSC                                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-37850
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (20%); General finance sector
                            (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%);
                            Central government administration (20%); Other social services
                            (20%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (P); Social risk mitigation (P);
                            Rural markets (S); Environmental policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/19/2002                                     Effective: 06/26/2003                06/26/2003
     Appraisal: 04/22/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/17/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOSL/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Peter C. Harrold
Sector Director:                Sadiq Ahmed                                    Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader at ICR:             Rocio Castro                                   Tercan Baysan
ICR Primary Author:             Rocio Castro; Princess Ventura


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Note: A simplified ICR on this operation was completed in June 2004. OED's ratings were as follows: Outcome:
Moderately Satisfactory; Sustainability: Likely; Institutional Development Impact:Modest; Bank
Performance:Satisfactory; Borrower Performance:Satisfactory; Quality of ICR: Satisfactory

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background

Sri Lanka is a small island surrounded by the Indian Ocean with a population of 19 million.
Despite being a low-income country, Sri Lanka has achieved human development outcomes
comparable to those of high income countries. In several dimensions--such as universal primary
enrollment, gender equality, infant and maternal mortality--the country is ahead in meeting the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). However, it is lagging behind in reducing income
poverty and malnutrition.

Sri Lanka has been growing at 5 percent annually over the past two decades, even during the
conflict years. However, this growth performance has not been adequate to significantly reduce
poverty. Between 1990 and 2002, the national poverty headcount declined by only 3 percentage
points despite an annual average increase of 3.5 percent in per-capita income. Poverty trends
were uneven across sectors and regions. Poverty incidence in urban areas was halved, while rural
poverty ratios declined by less than 5 percentage points, and poverty in the estate sector actually
increased by 50 percent.      This unequal poverty record mirrors uneven development across
sectors, with agriculture virtually stagnating and services and industry (mostly concentrated in the
Western province) thriving over the period.


Much of Sri Lanka's skewed growth record and ensuing increased income inequality is a
reflection of the unfinished reform agenda. Liberal trade and industrial policies since the late
1970s have spurred higher growth in industry and services, while pervasive controls and weak
infrastructure have stifled agriculture. A corollary to this uneven economic management is the
fact that income growth has become heavily skewed in favor of Colombo and neighboring
districts while poverty persists in rural areas where around 80 percent of the poor live.

In 2001 Sri Lanka was hit by severe adverse shocks (escalation of the conflict, a severe drought, a
major attack on the international airport by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelm (LTTE), and
declining demand for Sri Lanka's exports following September 11). These factors, combined with
the country's structural weaknesses, brought a sharp deterioration in the macroeconomic
situation, including a 1.4 percent contraction in real GDP--the first since Independence in 1948.
Against this backdrop, the United National Party (UNP)-led coalition won the December 2001
general elections with a mandate to secure peace and restore economic growth. A ceasefire
agreement swiftly negotiated with the LTTE in February 2002 paved the way for economic
recovery and the implementation of wide-ranging reforms encompassing fiscal consolidation, tax
system, labor laws, land markets, banking, power, privatization, administrative reform, and the
welfare system. Many of these were second generation reforms that built on reforms initiated and
developed under the preceding administration.

Reform implementation was disrupted following early elections in April 2004 which turned power
over to the United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA), comprising the main opposition Sri Lanka
Freedom Party (SLFP) and its new electoral ally the Marxist National Liberation Front (JVP).
After delays caused by the political transition and the tsunami, the UPFA Government presented a



                                                 - 2 -

draft PRS document at the Sri Lanka Development Forum held in May 2005. The draft PRS
departs from the previous one in areas such as the role of the state and is unclear about the future
direction of agricultural policies, labor, and welfare reforms. It however contains a welcome
focus on macroeconomic stability, enterprise restructuring, and infrastructure development. It
also underscores the importance of reducing regional inequalities and creating income generating
activities to assist the poor. Going forward, the Government will need to articulate specific
time-bound actions in these priority areas and engage in consultations with different stakeholders.
This process is likely to be postponed until after the November 2005 Presidential elections.

Original Objective
The PRSC I was the first of a series of operations designed to support the Government's medium
term poverty reduction strategy (PRS) as articulated in the Regaining Sri Lanka: Vision and
Strategy for Accelerated Development. The strategy, elaborated under the UNP-led coalition
government which took office in December 2001, contained a comprehensive reform program
aimed at creating an enabling environment for faster economic growth and poverty reduction.
The principal pillars of the PRS were:

(i)     securing lasting peace,
(ii)    building a supportive macroeconomic framework,
(iii)   accelerating economic growth with the private sector leading the effort,
(iv)    investing in people and creating opportunities for the poor, and
(v)     strengthening governance in the public sector to enhance the development impact of public
resources.

In line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the PRS identified the target of halving
the number of poor by 2015 (from around 20 percent) as the key objective to guide the
Government's long-term strategy for poverty reduction.

As indicated in the Bank/Fund Joint Staff Assessment (JSA), the PRS was broadly appropriate for
addressing the country's development and poverty reduction challenges. Aside from the civil
conflict, it correctly identified the restrictive controls/regulations that inhibited the functioning of
domestic factor markets and rural economy as the principal causes of Sri Lanka's below potential
growth performance. It also acknowledged that the heavy involvement of the state in commercial
activities constrained private sector development and economic growth. Particularly important
was the recognition that the policy of redistribution/transfers pursued in the past to reduce
poverty was ineffective.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
In addition to supporting a stable macroeconomic framework, PRSC I was structured around two
principal components consistent with the objectives of the PRS, namely:

       accelerating economic growth and supporting private sector development; and
       strengthening governance in the public sector and improving the welfare system.



                                                   - 3 -

The four-year PRSC program was expected to contribute toward the achievement of key medium
term PRS outcomes: (i) raising the GDP growth rate by 2 percent to around 7 percent by 2006,
two percentage higher that that achieved in the 1990s under conflict conditions; and (ii) reducing
the national poverty headcount from around 25 percent to less than 20 percent by 2006.
Monitoring indicators for the above medium term outcomes included: poverty measures,
aggregate and sectoral growth rates, fiscal and debt outturns, real wages, and employment trends.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components of this PRSC have not been revised from the original ones.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Consistency with the CAS and PRS

The PRSC I was fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Sri
Lanka discussed by the Board in April 2003. The CAS supported the implementation of Sri
Lanka's PRS and was organized around three central pillars: peace, equity, and growth.
Accordingly, the CAS objectives were to: (i) support peace by helping in the reconstruction and
capacity building efforts in the North and East; (ii) promote higher economic growth by removing
constraints to private sector development, including in the rural sector; and (iii) help enhance
equity in terms of access to and quality of public services. As part of the growth pillar, the CAS
envisioned four annual Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs). The PRSC I was the first of
this series of operations and was approved by the Board in June 2003.

Design

The PRSC I was designed to be part of an integrated, four-year program involving a series of four
operations to help support the implementation of the key elements of Sri Lanka's PRS. The time
horizon of the PRSC series overlapped with the PRS and CAS periods. All four PRSCs were to
be phased with the Government's annual budget cycle. Within the context of the integrated
four-year PRSC program, PRSC I focused on reforms aimed at creating more flexibible labor and
land markets, strengthening the financial market, reforming the power sector, and improving the
effectiveness of welfare programs. The PRSC program was consistent with preceding economic
and sector work (ESW). These include: World Bank: A Review of Trends and Policies in the Social
Sectors (1998), A Fresh Look at Unemployment (1999), Recapturing Missed Opportunities (2000),
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (2002), Country Procurement Assessment Review (2002),
and Poverty Assessment (2002).

The policy dialogue to support Sri Lanka's PRS through an adjustment operation started within
the context of the previously planned Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC).
However, given the comprehensive and medium-term nature of the PRS program, a programmatic
approach was considered as a more appropriate instrument for budgetary support. The PRSC I
was disbursed upon completion of prior actions that demonstrated progress in the cited areas and
were also the key focus areas in the PRS. The PRSC I outlined the broad policy direction and
indicative prior actions (triggers) for subsequent PRSCs. Each of the three subsequent PRSCs
were to build on earlier actions and focus on areas where prior preparations were going to lead to
deeper policy and institutional reforms. Accordingly, PRSC II was to continue supporting the


                                                - 4 -

PRS objectives by focusing on the acceleration of rural development and reform of the welfare
system. The PRSC III would focus on reform of the public sector, including the rationalization of
administrative structures and of the civil service size. The Development Policy Review (FY2004)
was expected to help identify the areas of focus for PRSC IV.

To help the Government formulate and implement structural reforms, as well as strengthen public
expenditure management and fiduciary mechanisms, technical support was provided under the
Economic Reform Technical Assistance Credit. This was complemented by the Land Titling and
Related Services Project, which more specifically dealt with land issues.

Donor Coordination

The Bank's PRSC program was consistent with the reforms being supported by the other two
main donors providing program assistance to Sri Lanka, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC).      In the energy sector, for example, ADB's
Power Sector Adjustment Credit dealt with the unbundling of the CEB while the Bank focused on
the regulatory aspects.

Coordination with the Fund. The PRSC program also overlapped with and complemented the
Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and Extended Financial Facility (EFF)
arrangements. The EFF-PRGF, approved by the Fund's Board in January 2003, supported the
Government's program to: (i) continue fiscal consolidation through revenue and expenditure
measures and strengthen monetary policy, (ii) strengthen the financial sector and restructure the
two state banks, and (iii) continue restructuring and privatization of non-financial SOEs. The
Bank and the Fund together prepared the Joint Staff Assessment of the PRS. A joint Bank-Fund
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) was also completed in 2002 and included relevant
recommendations on restructuring the state-owned banks that were taken up by Government.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The four-year PRSC program was expected to contribute toward the achievement of key medium
term PRS outcomes: (i) raising the GDP growth rate by 2 percent to around 7 percent by 2006,
and (ii) decreasing the poverty headcount by 5 percentage points by 2006. The PRSC I achieved
its core development objective as measured by related performance indicators and program
implementation benchmarks (see Annex 1). These include:

       Economic growth accelerated from 4 percent in 2002 to 6 percent in 2003 aided by the
cease fire and the improved policy framework.           Growth in 2003 was broad-based as the
garment-led industrial sector recovered from the 2001 downturn, agriculture benefited from good
weather, and economic activities in the North and East resumed. Notably, tourist arrivals hit a
historical record of half a million.

       Initial gains at fiscal consolidation underpinned a decline in inflation and interest rates.
The inflation rate, as measured by the Colombo Consumer Price Index annual average, fell from



                                                 - 5 -

14.2 percent in 2001 to 6.3 percent in 2003. Nominal interest rates were halved and private credit
increased.

       Unemployment moderated from an average rate of 8.8 percent in 2002 to 8.5 percent in
2003 and 2004 (Excluding the North and East).

       Foreign direct investment (including privatization proceeds) increased from $197 million
in 2002 to about US$230 million in 2003 and 2004.

However, Sri Lanka's economic performance deteriorated in the past year owing to both
exogenous factors as well as more accommodating monetary and fiscal policies. In 2004, real
GDP growth slowed down to 5.4 percent, partly reflecting the adverse impact of a drought that
dampened agricultural output. However, expansionary fiscal and monetary policies contributed to
maintaining the growth momentum. The fiscal deficit closed at 8.2 percent of GDP, despite
improved revenue collection. Monetary expansion accelerated and fuel price adjustments were
delayed. Inflation rose to double digits, gross foreign reserves fell, and the rupee depreciated
against the dollar.

Although macroeconomic conditions have stabilized following corrective measures and additional
external aid for the tsunami, tighter fiscal and monetary policies will be needed to contain
inflationary pressures, including from rising oil prices. The impact of the tsunami on GDP will be
limited as the affected sectors (fisheries, and hotels and restaurants) account for less than 3
percent of GDP. In addition, post-tsunami reconstruction will boost growth in the construction
sector. Growth in 2005 is projected at 5.3 percent, but much of the outcome will depend on the
speed of tsunami reconstruction and the extent to which higher international oil prices are passed
on to domestic consumers.

The first review of the PRGF-EEF arrangements originally planned for mid 2004 was not
completed because of the divergence of economic outturns from original program benchmarks. A
resumption of a Fund-monitored program will require the negotiation of a new arrangement as the
current PRGF-EFF arrangements are scheduled to expire in April 2006.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Building a Supportive Macroeconomic Framework

Fiscal consolidation. An important milestone supported by the PRSC I was the enactment of the
2002 Fiscal Management Responsibility Act (FMRA) with a view to improving fiscal
sustainability and transparency. The Act set medium term ceilings on fiscal deficit (to below 5
percent of GDP by 2006) and public debt (less than 85 percent of GDP by 2006 and 60 percent by
2013) as well as on government guarantees (to a maximum of 4.5 percent of GDP). Although the
fiscal outturns of the past two years have slipped from the original FRMRA targets, some fiscal
consolidation has taken place. The fiscal deficit was cut from 10.8 percent of GDP in 2001 to 8.1
percent of GDP in 2003 and net domestic financing fell from 8.8 percent of GDP to 4.5 percent.
Fiscal adjustment over the period relied entirely on expenditure cuts (mostly defense and capital)



                                                 - 6 -

while tax revenues continued to fall, partly reflecting the complex transition from a sales tax to a
two-tier Value Added Tax (VAT) system. Although the decline in tax revenues was reversed in
2004, additional election-related expenditures and fuel and food subsidies kept the deficit at 8.2
percent of GDP. Public debt remained at around 106 percent of GDP in 2002-2004.

The current Government has announced its intention to adhere to the FMRA targets, albeit on a
delayed timetable. Accordingly, the 2005 budget envisaged a reduction of the fiscal deficit to 7.6
percent of GDP, by substantially raising revenues (by 1.6 percent of GDP) and containing
expenditure increases (to 0.6 percent of GDP). The target deficit has subsequently been revised
to 8.5 percent of GDP to reflect increased expenditures for tsunami recovery activities, higher fuel
subsidies, and lower than programmed revenues. While tsunami-related expenditures will be
largely funded by foreign aid, weak revenues and mounting fuel subsidies (notably on diesel)
continue to pose pressures on the budget. Furthermore, large contingent liabilities are building up
from the lack of adjustment of electricity tariffs, last adjusted in November 2002, by the
state-owned Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB).

Accelerating Economic Growth and Supporting Private Sector Development

In addition to supporting the establishment of a stable macroeconomic framework, which is a
pre-condition for sustaining economic growth, the PRSC growth agenda focused on reducing
rigidities in factor markets (e.g., land, labor, financial services); improving infrastructure services,
in particular of power; and fostering rural development.

Labor market. PRSC I supported the enactment of key legislative changes to reform Sri Lanka's
labor regulations with the objective of reducing costs and increasing transparency. Notably, the
rules governing the Termination of Employment of Workmen's Act (TEWA), which apply to firms
with at least 15 employees, were amended in 2003 to require the application of a uniform
compensation formula for retrenchment. In addition, the Industrial Disputes Act was changed to
impose time limits for completing labor tribunal cases, arbitration cases, and termination of
workers applications.

Following the change in government, the Ministry of Labor upheld the principle of applying a
uniform formula to determine severance payments as stipulated in the 2003 amendments to
TEWA. However, the quantum of severance payments under the formula was revised in March
2005 due to trade union pressure, and remain high by international standards (e.g., 1.5-2.5 months
wages for each year of service compared to an average for South Asia of 0.8 months wages for each
year of service).    Applications are also still subject to the labor commissioner's approval.
Notwithstanding these limitations, the formula has made the system more transparent and
predictable. The severance package will be complemented by an unemployment benefit scheme to
be funded through the Employees' Trust Fund (ETF).

Agricultural land. The thrust of land reforms under the program were: (i) to improve the
efficiency and transparency of the land administration system; and (ii) to remove restrictions on
the sale, mortgage, lease and transfer of land permits and grants alienated to farmers under the
Land Development Ordinance (LDO), which involve 1.4 million hectares (35 percent of arable



                                                   - 7 -

land) in close to 1.2 million parcels.

In the Letter of Development Policy for the PRSC I, the Government committed to adopting a
process to convert restricted grant lands to freehold titles in a transparent and efficient manner.
Other important measures taken as part of the program included: the enactment of the Survey
Act, completion of an institutional review of relevant agencies, and appointment of the Registrar
General of Lands and Registrar General of Title.

The Land Ownership Bill--providing the legal framework to convert the LDO grants to full
private ownership--was presented to Parliament in November 2003 but was challenged in the
Supreme Court on the grounds that it violated the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. The
current government now favors removing restrictions in a phased manner, beginning with village
expansion schemes, through amendments to the LDO which were approved by Cabinet in
February 2005. The amendments also make provisions to facilitate women's ownership and
access to land. Progress has also takenplace in amending the 1998 Registration of Title Act
(RTA) which will allow the conversion of grant lands to freehold titles. Both the LDO and RTA
amendments are with the Legal Draftsmen Department for submission to Parliament. However,
little progress has been made in setting the institutional framework required to implement the
provisions of the amended LDO and RTA.

Financial sector. The banking system is still dominated by the two state-owned banks--People's
Bank (PB) and Bank of Ceylon (BOC)--which together account for over 50 percent of banking
sector assets. The high operating costs of these banks has led to inefficiencies in the system,
including large spreads. PB has a negative net worth despite two re-capitalizations in the 1990s
costing US$20 million each. In the context of PRSC I, the Government took a number of
measures leading to the restructuring of PB and BOC. Notably, plans to commercialize PB were
announced, a restructuring committee to oversee the process was established, and the short-listing
of financial advisors was completed. A transactions adviser was subesequnetly appointed in
January 2004 to conduct a valuation of PB and prepare it for privatization. However, the
program was suspended given the new Government's preference for restructuring SOEs while
retaining state ownership.

The restructuring process of the state-owned banks has continued and their non-performing loans
have been brought down from 17.8 percent at the end of 2002 to 12.6 percent at the end of
March 2005. An ADB operation has also been developed to support the restructuring and
recapitalization of PB, which incorporates performance criteria. The Central Bank has continued
to strengthen its bank supervision capacity and has adopted a more market-oriented monetary
policy regime. Following the amendments to the Banking Act, the Central Bank has tightened
prudential norms, capital standards, loan classification, exposure limits, public disclosure, and
market discipline. An anti money laundering legislation, the Financial Transactions Bill, was
passed this year and with the publication of the financial sector stability report in June 2005, the
Central Bank has commenced its public disclosure policy to be continued on a bi-annual basis.


Power sector. Despite an impressive expansion in access to electricity over the past two decades
(from 15 percent to 74 percent of households), generation capacity constraints and high prices


                                               - 8 -

threaten Sri Lanka's growth prospects. Because of failure to implement long term generation
plans, the sector has been forced to rely on expensive emergency thermal generation. In addition,
below cost-recovery tariffs have led to large financial losses for the CEB, delayed investments in
new transmission and distribution facilities, and constrained maintenance of existent infrastructure.


To address these problems, the GOSL adopted a power sector reform program with the
assistance of ADB and JBIC, part of which was supported by PRSC I. Notably, the Electricity
Reform Act (ERA) was passed in 2002 and provided the legal framework for unbundling the CEB
into independent generation, transmission, and distribution companies; and for the establishment
of an independent regulatory body. Tariffs were substantially adjusted in 2002 and the Public
Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) Act was passed.

However, further reforms in the sector have been difficult to implement. Unions have opposed
CEB's unbundling into separate companies for fear that it will lead to privatization. Instead,
strategic business units will be formed--prior to incorporating them into separate
companies--with CEB remaining as a holding company. However, this may require amending the
ERA under which CEB was to be abolished. Regulation of the sector by PUCSL also cannot
start until separate companies are created. In the meantime, because electricity tariffs have barely
been adjusted since 2002, CEB has incurred substantial losses (estimated at over US$300 million
or 1.5 percent of GDP by mid 2005).


Rural development. Fostering rapid rural development--particularly raising productivity and
competitiveness in agriculture and non-farm rural sectors--is critical for achieving faster poverty
reduction in Sri Lanka. About 80 percent of Sri Lanka's population and 90 percent of the
country's poor live in rural areas. Despite its declining contribution to GDP (19 percent in 2003),
the agricultural sector remains vital for employment and income generation. In addition to land
and labor reforms described earlier, the PRS program focused on: (i) facilitating farmer access to
new technologies, (ii) establishing a more stable trade regime, and (iii) ensuring sustainability of
water resources.

As part of the reforms supported by the PRSC I, the Government reviewed plant and quarantine
regulations, and drafted a new Seeds Bill, a National Water Policy and a National Water
Resources Bill. In addition, the transition plan to transform the Mahaweli Authority into a River
Basin Management Agency was approved and the Interim National Water Resource authority was
established.

Although the National Seed Act was passed in May 2004 and corresponding regulations drafted,
these have not been adopted. Similarly, more liberal phyto-sanitary regulations--as outlined in
the Plant Protection Act (as amended in 1999)--have been drafted but not yet adopted.           The
trade regime for key agricultural commodities remains unpredictable.        The specific duty on
rice--introduced in January 2002 in place of licensing requirements--has been revised several
times to off-set seasonal supply changes. Similar fluctuations are observed in onions, chilies, and
potatoes which come under a specific duty regime. A draft of the National Water Bill is with the
legal draftsman, but further public consultations and stronger commitment will be needed to
ensure the passage of the Bill.



                                                - 9 -

Strengthening Governance in the Public Sector and Improving the Welfare System

Civil service and administrative reform. The quality of the public administration has declined
over the past decades due to political patronage, overstaffing, administrative overlap and
duplication, and excessive salary compression. PRSC I supported initial measures to improve the
quality of public administration. The Public Service Commission was re-established with the
objective of depoliticizing the civil service and reducing political patronage. A hiring freeze was
enforced to control overstaffing. And a draft Public Finance Act to improve public expenditure
management and fiscal accountability was submitted to Cabinet.

The 2004 budget contained further measures to reform the public sector, notably, a Voluntary
Retirement Scheme (VRS) to reduce the size of the civil service by one-third, and a Salary
Review Committee to rationalize salary scales. However, these reform initiatives have been
stalled or reversed since the change in government. The hiring freeze has been abandoned and
recruitment is on the increase. Public sector employment fell by 10 percent from 1,164,990 in
2001 to 1,043,208 in 2003, but it has since climbed back up to 1,094,415 in 2004. In addition,
the National Council for Administration estimates that the implementation of salary revisions
announced in the 2005 budget will further reduce the salary compression ratio from 8:1 to 5:1.

Welfare reform. The welfare system, of which Samurdhi transfer scheme is the largest, has long
suffered from mis-targeting and insufficient income support. Important objectives of the reform
program supported by PRSC I included: (i) introducing objectivity and transparency in the
selection of beneficiaries, and (ii) enhancing the transfer amounts for more significant poverty
reduction impact. Specifically, the PRSC I supported the enactment in 2002 of the Welfare
Benefit Act (WBA) and the establishment of a Steering Committee on Welfare Reforms. The
WBA set the institutional framework for selecting beneficiaries for state-funded welfare programs
in an objective and transparent manner. While the Steering Committee provided a mechanism for
all concerned stakeholders to jointly take decisions and supervise the implementation of reforms in
this area.

Further to the above described measures, extensive technical work was carried out by the Welfare
Benefits Board to improve the targeting system for the Samurdhi program. A formula-based
targeting methodology was developed and field-tested in several districts.           The reformed
methodology is being adopted for the first time in the North and East to identify beneficiaries for
Samurdhi cash transfers. However, the expansion of the reformed targeting scheme to the rest of
the country will depend on whether income generating activities can be made available to those
exiting the program. This approach reflects the Government's revised framework for welfare
programs which envisages a gradual shift from cash hand-outs toward facilitating income
generating opportunities for the poor.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:




                                                - 10 -

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of PRSC I is rated as modest. It is important to note, however, that in
the context of the Bank's support for the PRSC program, the capacity of the Department of
Census Statistics (DCS) was significantly strengthened. In particular, the Bank collaborated
closely with the DCS and provided `hands-on' technical assistance for the generation of baseline
poverty data and poverty maps that could be used for future monitoring and basis for policy
decision making. As a result of this collaboration, the DCS has generated and published poverty
lines and poverty maps for 1990-91,1995-96, and 2002 based on a consistent methodology and
best international practices. The Bank also extended similar type of assistance to the Welfare
Benefits Board in the elaboration of a formula-based methodology to target Samurdhi cash
transfers. In the power sector, the establishment of the regulatory body, the PUCSL, was also
linked to the program supported by PRSC I. Although PUCSL has not assumed regulatory
functions yet, it is already playing an active role in policy discussions pertaining to the sectors
under its purview, such as electricity and water. Substantial institutional impact has been achieved
in the financial sector both though the adoption of modern legislation as well as the restructuring
of the two state-owned commercial banks.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of factors outside the government's control has been mixed. In terms of growth
outcomes, variable weather conditions significantly influenced the performance of the agricultural
sector, positively in 2003 and adversely in 2004 when there was a drought. The Bank played a
positive role in collaborating closely with Government on several key areas at the design and
implementation levels ( see section 7 ). Program implementation, however, suffered a setback
when the Supreme Court repealed the Land Ownership Bill following a challenge brought forward
by the Provincial Councils. Eventually, the Bill was withdrawn and necessary legislative changes
are now being sought through amendments to the Land Development Ordinance which are yet to
be submitted to Parliament.

Most importantly, early general elections held in April 2004--four years ahead of
schedule--disrupted program implementation and the ensuing change in political leadership has
affected the pace and depth of reforms. Sri Lanka's short term election cycles and increasing oil
prices have colluded to bring about mounting energy subsidies, which are gradually eroding early
fiscal consolidation gains.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The ceasefire agreement signed between the Government and the LTTE had a positive impact on
internal security and thereby on the project's development outcomes. Although the LTTE walked
away from formal peace talks in April 2003, the ceasefire held up in part because the Government
continued measures supportive of the peace process. The ceasefire boosted investor confidence
and paved the way for the resumption of economic activities in the North and East and the return
of the majority of displaced persons to their homes. Furthermore, the ceasefire provided an
opportunity to redivert resources and the attention of policy makers away from defense and




                                                     - 11 -

security towards economic reforms and development.

In general, program implementation could have benefited from wider and deeper consultations
with stakeholders, especially civil society and within government.          The rationale for certain
"politically-sensitive" reforms was not adequately explained through a more systematic
communications strategy. For example, it appears that public opinion on welfare reform turned
negative because initial cuts in the number of Samurdhi beneficiaries were perceived as arbitrary
and politically-motivated. Although the Government recognized the importance of developing
and implementing an effective communications strategy, and ERTA could have been used for this
purpose, this did not materialized because so much of their attention was devoated to the peace
effort.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
No significant factors.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original amount was SDR 90.7 million (US$125 million equivalent), which was fully
disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness. The credit was made on standard IDA terms
with a term of 40 years and 10-year grace period. The Borrower was the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the core program supported by PRSC I is rated as likely. The core program
included reforms in fiscal management, factor markets, the financial system, and the power sector.
The rationale for the rating is twofold: (i) several reforms supported by PRSC I were embedded in
legislative changes which makes policy reversals unlikely; and (ii) reforms in these areas have
continued despite the change in government, suggesting that they are likely to be sustained.

On fiscal management, the 2002 FMRA enacted under the program has provided an anchor for
medium-term fiscal adjustment, albeit under a delayed timetable. The FMRA also strengthened
the transparency of the budget by requiring six-montly and pre-election reports to Parliament by
the Minister of Finance. However, a source of concern is the on-going build up in contingent
liabilities in the electricity sector. Amendments to the labor legislation adopted under PRSC I have
been implemented and will be difficult to reverse. On land markets, recent Cabinet approval of
draft amendments to relevant laws signals wide-based political support for allowing private
ownership of agricultural land, albeit in a phased manner (i.e., starting with village expansion
lands). A phased approach may be warranted given concerns that farmers may become landless if
they are allowed to sell their land. A social impact assessment being carried out in collaboration
with the Ministry of Lands is expected to provide further insights on the likely impact of
extending the policy to other types of land, including irrigated land.          Despite the reported
difficulties in reforming the power sector, the legal and institutional frameworks for the
independent regulation of the sector have been established. Finally, the financial sector has been
strengthened through more modern legislation and the restructuring of the two commercial
state-owned banks supported by PRSC I has improved their financial performance. Further plans
to increase the autonomy and accountability of the state owned banks will contribute to


                                                    - 12 -

maintaining these gains.

There is however uncertainty about the future of reforms in rural development, social welfare, and
the civil service based on recent experience. Ultimately, the sustainability of reforms will depend
on the strength of the main political parties, the SLFP and UNP, and their ability to form
government without dilution of their policy stance which has been converging over the years.
Indeed, it is this convergence that explains the continuity of reforms in most areas, and the
absence of policy reversals in nearly three decades. However, the political base of both parties
has been eroding. Minority groups such as the leftist JVP have gained greater significance in
forming governments, as was the case when the present UPFA government was initially formed.
Unlike the UNP and the SLFP, the policy stance of the JVP is dramatically different in areas such
as economic liberalization, role of the state, and solutions to the conflict. More generally, the
persistence of fragile governments and short election cycles will undermine the sustainability of
reforms in certain key areas, such as civil service reform.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the first of a series of PRSCs, the PRSC I outlined the broad policy directions and indicative
prior actions (triggers) for subsequent operations.      Accordingly, a follow-up PRSC II was
originally planned for 2004 to continue supporting the PRS objectives with a focus on
accelerating rural development and reforming the welfare system. While some of the triggers for
PRSC II have been met, the processing of the operation has been indefinitely postponed pending
the preparation of a new full PRS and given the suspension of the PRGF program. Since the
policy changes supported under PRSC I were implemented using the government's normal
processes and systems, no transitional arrangements are necessary.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall the Bank's performance in this operation was satisfactory. The Bank was able to quickly
put together a PRSC program, in collaboration with Government counterparts, based on actions
already taken and on the PRS which had just been finalized in December 2002 and presented to
the Bank Board in April 2003. This rapid response was greatly facilitated by the extensive work
carried out in preparation for the initially planned PSDAC.        The PRSC program was fully
consistent with the Bank's country and sector work and the policy framework identified for
PSDAC. The interaction with the IMF was also satisfactory, with the Bank complementing the
Fund's PRGF-EFF arrangements. The Bank also collaborated with key development partners to
ensure an appropriate division of responsibilities in support of the country's PRS. Although the
design of the PRSC program marked a welcome departure from traditional adjustment lending, it
was not sufficiently linked to the budget. However, this was due to the non-availability at the
time of a detailed assessment of Sri Lanka's public expenditures and management. The Bank has
taken initial steps to address this shortcoming and future operations are likely to be increasingly
centered on supporting improvements in the budget allocations and processes.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank collaborated closely with Government during supervision.             There was adequate



                                                  - 13 -

continuity in the composition of the Bank team, which helped maintain a coherent dialogue with
the Government. In addition, the Bank's task management of the PRSC was moved to the field in
January 2004 to ensure regular effective supervision and permit closer collaboration with
government counterparts.       This close interaction eventually helped prevent the premature
implementation of a VRS scheme for public sector employees proposed by the MOF that did not
have appropriate safeguards for reentry and targeting. In addition, it also contributed to influence
the design of a relatively simple Unemployment Benefit Scheme more suited to Sri Lanka's
circumstances. Program implementation was aided by a parallel Economic Reform Technical
Assistance (ERTA) project which was designed to provide expert assistance when required (e.g.,
welfare reform) to facilitate the implementation of reforms.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the project outcomes and the quality of preparation and supervision the overall Bank
performance is assessed as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
In the PRS, the Government laid the foundations of a medium term transformation of the Sri
Lankan economy, which enjoyed the full support of the private sector. The Government also
collaborated closely with Bank staff in the preparation of the PRSC I.            However, further
consultation within government institutions and other stake holders would have helped internalize
the PRS and increase ownership, especially of proposed politically sensitive reforms.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although implementation of certain actions has been delayed due to political uncertainties and
difficulties in passing certain legislative changes, the overall performance of the outgoing
Government was satisfactory. The quality of the collaboration with the Bank improved over time,
particularly in the context of the joint supervision of the program.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable. There was no single implementing agency responsible for this program. Instead,
the operation relied on the government's normal implementation mechanisms.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The recent political developments reinforce the importance of linking the release of PRSC funds
to the implementation of up-front actions and not to future promises. The past experience also
suggests that more attention needs to be given to the sequencing of reforms. The PRSC program
was perhaps too overloaded with "politically-sensitive" reforms, i.e., public sector, welfare, labor
and land reforms, and a more phased approach may have been more manageable.

Consideration also needs to be given to ensuring wide-base political support for key reforms to
avoid interruptions every time there is a change in government. To ensure the sustainability of


                                                 - 14 -

reforms, governments need to be encouraged to pursue reforms that have bipartisan support, to
enhance consultations with relevant stakeholders, including within government, and to inform the
public at large of the pros and cons of reforms through a more systematic communications
strategy.

Recent poverty numbers, which show a sharp increase in inequality between 1990-91 and 2002,
also reinforce the importance of focusing on pro-poor reforms, e.g., welfare reforms and rural
development, which were to be the center of PRSC II.

It is important that future PRSC operations be more closely linked to the budget. In this regard,
the Bank should continue to work with the MOF to enhance the policy orientation of the budget
through the development of a medium term budget framework.

Given the difficulties in passing legislative changes, which in Sri Lanka's context could be subject
to court challenges, future operations will need to explore other alternative (more pragmatic)
options to achieve stated objectives. For example, mainly in recognition of this problem, the
Ministry of Finance decided to issue relevant circulars instead of submitting to Parliament a new
Public Finance Act. Should legal changes be included in the program, careful consideration
needs to be given to the constitutionality of the proposed legislations and whether they could
withstand court challenges.

This operation was planned at the start as a sequenced series of reforms over a number of years.
It is clear that the impact of such a series would have been much greater than the sum of the
impacts of the individual reforms. As such, while the first PRSC did substantially achieve its
objectives, the results are much less satisfactory than they would have been if the intended
complementary reforms originally planned to be supported in subsequent operations had actually
materialized.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I) Implementation Completion
Report  Borrower's Comments

Achievements

The following co-activities supported under the PRSC-1 have been completed.

        The enactment of Fiscal Responsibility Act with a view to improving fiscal sustainability.
The 2005 budget estimated a reduction of the fiscal deficit to 7.6% of GDP by raising revenues
and containing expenditure increases. The target deficit has to be revised to 8.2% of GDP due to
increased expenditures for tsunami recovery activities and higher fuel subsidies.

        Medium Term Budgeting process has commenced

        Establishment of the Insurance industry regulatory authority for increased private sector



                                                 - 15 -

participation in the industry.

          Re-establishment of Independent Public Service Commission to ensure transparency of
recruitment and promotion in the public sector.

          Continuation of the restructuring process of the State owned banks. Non-performing loans
in these banks have been brought down.

Sustainability:

 The several reforms carried out under this programme were supported by legislative changes and
therefore these activities will be sustained. There was a legal petition filed against the Land
Ownership Bill. The court decision was in favour of petitioner and therefore the bill had to be
dropped. Poverty Reduction Strategy has taken a new dimension with a greater focus on pro-poor
growth        since last year. New policy strategy on public enterprise reforms also has been
announced.

Shortcomings & Lessons Learned:

The reforms need to be properly sequenced and planned giving due consideration to the feasibility
of implementation. They should be undertaken in phases, focusing on a few main activities in a
given phase. Establishment of a special unit would have been useful to implement and manage the
important policy reforms. The experience has shown that "politically sensitive reforms" could
only be implemented after extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders including within the
government.            The benefit of the reforms has to be informed to general public through a
systematic communication strategy prior to implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

    Matrix of Specific Measures Supported by the PRSC I and Triggers for PRSC II

           Completed Reforms supported by PRSC I                                     Triggers to PRSC II*

1. Strengthening fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic framework
 Enacted the Fiscal Management Responsibility Act, setting medium term
targets for budget deficit (5 percent of GDP) and public debt (85 percent of       Satisfactory implementation of

GDP), and mandating pre-election budgetary position report; and satisfactory      macroeconomic program supported by PRGF

implementation of the PRGF program.
2. Supporting Factor Market Reforms

 Labor: Amendments made effective to: (i) the Termination of Employment           Labor: Implement TEWA Compensation

of Workmen - TEWA (Special Provisions) Act; (ii) the Industrial Disputes          package for retrenchment

(Hearing and Determination of Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Bill; and
(iii) the Industrial Disputes Act, with a view to (a) setting statutory limits for
the resolution of labor disputes, and (b) binding the Labor Commissioner to



                                                                - 16 -

use a gazetted compensation formula for retrenchment.
 Land: Enacted Survey Act, completed an institutional review and               Land: Submit to Parliament Land Ownership
appointed Registrar General Land and Registrar General Titles; Initiated a     Bill, Submit to Parliament Amendments to
consultancy on unutilized state land in urban areas; Committed in the Letter ofRegistration of Titles Act and initiate
Development Policy to developing and adopting a process to convert restricted implementation
grant lands to freehold titles in an efficient and transparent manner.

 Financial Sector: Enacted Amendments to Monetary Law Act; Privatized  Financial Sector: Implement
the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation; established an Insurance Regulatory       commercialization plan for People's Bank;
Authority and liberalized the sector to foreign ownership; and Initiated the   Develop "fit and proper" criteria by Central
commercialization of the state-owned People's Bank as reflected in the         Bank
following actions: (a) appointed a People's Bank Restructuring Committee to
oversee its commercialization; (b) procured a financial advisor to assist in
restructuring PB.
3. Reform of the Power Sector

To reform the power sector and restructure the vertically integrated Ceylon
Electricity Board (CEB):

 Enacted the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) Act,
establishing a multi-sector regulator and recommended the individuals to be
appointed as Commissioners of PUCSL to Constitutional Council.
 Enacted the Electricity Reforms Act, unbundling the CEB and bringing the
regulation and pricing of successor companies under the PUCSL.
 Increased electricity tariffs to reflect cost recovery.
4. Rural Development

 Prepared draft Seed Bill, National Water Resources Bill, and National         Send to Parliament National Seed Bill and
Water Policy.                                                                  issue regulations
 Reviewed plant quarantine rules and regulations.                              Send to Parliament National Water Bill,
                                                                               issue regulations, and initiate implementation



5. Welfare Reforms

 Enacted Welfare Benefits Act to provide legal and institutional framework  Develop application form (based on proxy
for reforms                                                                    means testing formula) to collect information on
 Formed steering committee to oversee implementation                          potential applicants in the pilot exercise.
                                                                                Pilot targeting methodology targeting 40,000
                                                                               households
                                                                                Pilot enrolment involving enrolment of the
                                                                               households selected from the targeted pilot as
                                                                               potential beneficiaries
6. Public Sector Reforms

 Re-established the independent Public Services Commission (PSC) with           Cabinet approval of a medium term strategy for
the 17th Amendment to the Constitution to depoliticize the civil service        public sector reform.
 Introduce strict time limits (and penalties for non-compliance) for the        Issue VRS circular reflecting consultations with
submission of annual accounts and performance reports by the line               relevant agencies, including legal opinion, with a view
ministries and SOEs.                                                            to ensuring appropriate targeting, avoiding adverse
 Continue implementing the across-the-board hiring freeze with limited         selection and reentry
exceptions.
 Established a contributory pension scheme for new public employees
 Submit the Public Finance Act for discussions at the Economic Policy
Committee of the Cabinet.
* These triggers may differ in some cases from those originally identified under PRSC I, as they reflect revisions made
during program supervision.




                                                               - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
              Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Gradual increase in the annual                                          GDP growth accelerated from 4.1 percent in
GDP growth to around 7 percent by 2006.                                    2002 to 5.4 percent in 2004.
2. Decrease in the national (headcount)                                    National poverty incidence was 22.7 percent
poverty incidence from around 25 percent to                                in 2002 and not avaiable for later years.
below 20 percent by 2005.

3. Increase domestic and foreign private                                   Private investment to GDP ratio increased
investment.                                                                from 16.5 percent in 2002 to 19.8 percent in
                                                                           2004.

4. Increase employment and reduce                                          The size of the laborforce increased from 7.1
unemployment.                                                              million in 2002 to 8 million in 2004.
                                                                           Unemployment rate moderated slightly from
                                                                           8.8 percent in 2002 to 8.5 percent in 2004.
5. Reduce the fiscal deficit and public debt.                              Budget deficit narrowed from 8.9 percent of
                                                                           GDP in 2002 to 8.2 percent of GDP in 2004.
                                                                           Public debt to GDP ratio remained around
                                                                           105.5 percent from 2002 to 2004.

6. Increase agricultural sector growth.                                    Ariculture sector growth slowed down
                                                                           considerably from an increase of 2.5 percent
                                                                           in 2002 to a contraction of 0.7 percent in
                                                                           2004.

7. Increase efficiency in the banking sector,                              Interest spread of domestic banking units
by reducing large spreads.                                                 reduced marginally from 4.6 percent in 2002
                                                                           to 4.2 percent in 2004.

8. Increase the supply of power.                                           Total units generated increased from 6,810
                                                                           gwh in 2002 to 8,043 gwh in 2004.

9. Improve targeting of Samurdhi welfare                                   Not available.
program.

10. Reduce the size of the civil service.                                  The size of the civil service expanded from
                                                                           2002 to 2004.

There were no projections made during supervion of PRSC I. The column "actual/latest estimate" reflect
changes in the indicator between the year prior to PRSC I implementation and the latest data avaiable
during the preparation of the final ICR.
Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
              Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of labor tribunals (to increase from                             Number of labor tribunals increased from 24
24 to 39).                                                                 in 2002 to 35 by 2004.

2. Number of backlog cases with labor                                      Number of cases with the labor
commissioner.                                                              commissioner increased marginally from
                                                                           15,435 in 2002 to 15,790 in 2004.
3. Ratio of non-performing loans to total                                  Ratio of non-performing loans to total
outstanding loans of state owned banks.                                    outstanding loan of state banks fell from 16.9
                                                                           percent in 2002 to 11.4 percent in 2004.

                                                                           CEB total technical losses remain around 8-9
4. CEB technical losses.                                                   percent during 2002 to 2004.


5. Paddy land productivity.                                                Paddy yield per hectare increased slightly
                                                                           from 3,893 kg in 2002 to 4,080 kg in 2004.




                                                        - 18 -

6. Coverage of Samurdhi under reformed                                 From none in 2002 to parts of the North and
targeting sustem.                                                      East in 2005.


7. Civil service employment.                                           Total public sector employment expanded
                                                                       from 1.061 million in 2002 to 1.094 million in
                                                                       2004.

1End of project
There were no projections made during supervion of PRSC I. The column "actual/latest estimate" reflect
changes in the indicator between the year prior to PRSC I implementation and the latest data avaiable
during the preparation of the final ICR.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
PRSC I                                                   110.00        125.00            114


Total Baseline Cost                                      110.00        125.00
                        Total Project Costs              110.00        125.00
                  Total Financing Required               110.00        125.00




                                                - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               December 2002                  8     TTL, E, P, F, PS                     S               S



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2003                     8     TTL, E, P, F, PS                     S               S


 Supervision
               December 2003                   8    TTL, E, P, PS, F, RE                 S               S


 ICR
               June 2004                      3     E                                    S               S

TTL-Task Team Leader, E-Economist, P-Private Sector Development Specialist, F-Financial Sector
Specialist, PS-Public Sector Specialist, RE-Rural Economist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   15.23                        62,167
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        17.06                        63,079
  Supervision                                     8.5                       28,745
  ICR                                             4.5                       18,500
  Total                                        45.79                       172,491
Supervision estimates include charges for PRSC II preparation up to December 31, 2003




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

International Monetary Fund and World Bank (2003): Sri Lanka Joint Staff Assessment of the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2003): Sri Lanka Country Assistance Stategy of the World Bank Group 2003-2006.
Washington,D.C.

World Bank (2003): Program Document for a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 90.7 Million
(Equivalent to US$ 125 Million) to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a First Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I). Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2003): Sri Lanka Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC II) Preparatory Mission
November 26 to December 12, 2003 Aide Memoire.

Robert Beschel (2003): Back to Office Report for Civil Service Reform Mission to Sri Lanka, December
7-17, 2003.

Tara Vishwanath (2003): Back to Office Report on Welfare Reforms for November 12 to 19, 2003
Mission.

Pachampet Sundaram and Christopher Joubert (2004): Report of February 11 to March 5, 2004 World
Bank Mission on Voluntary Retirement and Civil Service Reform in Sri Lanka.

World Bank: (2004): Aide Memoire Next Steps Towards Welfare Reform Implementation: Outcomes of
        Mission July 22-28, 2004.

World Bank (2004): Sri Lanka Development Policy Review. Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2004): Simplified Implementation Completion Report (ICR) PRSC I. Washington, D.C.

World Bank (2004): PRSC II Concept Note.

World Bank (2004): PRSC II Minutes of Concept Note Review Meeting.

World Bank (2004): Sri Lanka Medium Term Public Expenditure Review Program Progress Report.

World Bank (2004): Operations Evaluation Department (OED) ICR Review: Sri Lanka PRSC (P081718).




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

