                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No. 29337




                   SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                    DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA


                      FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
                                   (Credit No. 37850-LK)




                                       June 16, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region

                           Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                             For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

Operation ID: PE-P081718                            Operation Name: PRSC I
Team Leader: Rocio Castro                           TL Unit: SASPR
                                                    Report Date: June 16, 2004


1. Program Data

                Name: First Poverty Reduction Support Credit             L/C Number:
  Country/Department: Poverty Reduction & Economic Management                 Region:   SAR

      Sector/subsector:  Economic Policy
               Theme:    Growth, Private Sector Development, Governance, Welfare


KEY DATES
                                                                     Original             Revised/Actual
   PCD/PR:     December 19, 2002                        Effective:   June 26, 2003        June 26, 2003
   Appraisal:  April 8, 2003                                MTR:
   Approval:   June 17, 2003                             Closing:    December 31, 2003    December 31, 2003



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:    Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka/Ministry of Finance
                  Other Partners:   Ministry of Policy Dev. & Imp., Census Dept., Central Bank



STAFF                      Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:            Praful Patel                              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Peter Harrold                             Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:            Ijaz Nabi                                 Ijaz Nabi
Team Leader at ICR:        Rocio Castro                              PRSC I Task Leader: Tercan Baysan
ICR Primary Authors:       Rocio Castro, Mario Cuevas,
                           and Cresenta Fernando

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: L
               Institutional Development Impact: M
                               Bank Performance: S
                          Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: N/A                                 S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time: N/A                                    No


3. Program Description

3.a Description of Program

In December 2001, the UNP-led coalition came to power with a mandate to restore peace and
undertake wide-ranging reforms needed to put Sri Lanka on a higher trajectory of growth and poverty
reduction. The Government's medium term Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) was articulated in the
Regaining Sri Lanka (RSL) completed in December 2002 after a four-year preparation period. The
PRS embodied a fundamental change in the role of the state away from the policies of
redistribution/transfers and towards creating an enabling environment for faster economic growth and
poverty reduction. The principal pillars of the PRS include: (i) securing lasting peace; (ii) accelerating
economic growth with the private sector leading the effort; (iii) investing in people and creating
opportunities for the poor; and (iv) strengthening "governance in the public sector to enhance the
development impact of public resource. In line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the
PRS identified the target of halving the number of poor by 2015 (from around 20 percent) as the key
objective that will guide Government's long-term strategy for poverty reduction.

The UNP was defeated in the general elections held on April 2, 2004--four years ahead of schedule--
by the United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA), representing the President's Party, the Sri Lanka
Freedom Party (SLFP) and its electoral ally the Marxist-oriented National Liberation Front (JVP).
The UPFA is now in the process of reformulating its medium term development strategy, which is
likely to include areas of continuity as well as departures from the previous PRS. In the meantime, a
policy statement to be presented in mid-June together with a revised budget for 2004, is expected to
provide some insights as to the broad direction of future policies.

3.b. Description of the Operation

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board in April 2003, envisioned four
annual Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs) to support the implementation of the PRS. The
first PRSC (PRSC I), in an amount of US$125 million, was disbursed in July 2003. This was the first

policy-based credit provided to Sri Lanka in over a decade. The second PRSC was originally planned
for June 2004, but its processing has been postponed until December 2004, to give time for the new
Government to reformulate the PRS. The credit amount will be determined depending on the strength
of the reform program and progress on the peace process.

Within the broad PRS agenda, the PRSC program focuses on critical policy and institutional reforms
not addressed under other operations (either by the Bank or other donors). The PRSC I focused
primarily on supporting reforms of the factor markets (e.g., land, labor and finance) and outlined the
broad directions for subsequent operations. Consistent with this framework, the PRSC II is expected
to focus on rural development and welfare reforms while the PRSC III on public service delivery.

In addition to supporting a stable macroeconomic framework, the PRSC I was structured around two
principal components: (a) accelerating economic growth and supporting private sector development
and (b) strengthening governance and public resource management, and improving the welfare system.
The four-year PRSC program is expected to contribute toward the achievement of key medium term
PRS outcomes: (a) raising the GDP growth rate by 2 percent to around 7 percent by 2006; and (b)
decrease the poverty headcount by 5 percentage points by 2006.

4. Achievements of Objectives and Output

The PRSC program has been achieving its core objectives as measured by the PRS medium term
development outcomes and program implementation benchmarks (triggers). The Sri Lankan economy
performed particularly strongly in 2003, in response to the continuation of peace and a more favorable
policy environment. Noteworthy economic outcomes include: (i) an acceleration of economic growth
from 4 to 5.9 percent in 2003. Growth was broad based, with the textile-led industrial sector resuming
strong growth and tourism reaching an historical record of half a million arrivals; (ii) lower inflation
(averaging 6.3 percent in 2003); (iii) declining interest rates and increased private credit; and (iv) a
decrease in the rate of unemployment from an average of 8.8 percent in 2002 to 7.8 percent by the
middle of 2003. Given increased political uncertainties since last November--which culminated in
the President's calling early general elections in April 2004--foreign direct investment (FDI), which
was on track to exceed US$300 million, amounted to only US$229 million at year end. The economy
is projected to grow by 5-5.5 percent in 2004, somewhat below the 6 percent initially anticipated.
Despite continued strong export growth, the revision reflects the adverse impact of the drought on the
agricultural and power sectors as well as lower than previously anticipated private investment linked
to the uncertain political environment.

In terms of program implementation, although peace negotiations have stalled since April 2003, the
cease fire agreement signed in February 2002 has held, partly aided by measures opening up economic
relations with the North East (which included de-mining activities and the return of about half of the
internally displaced people to their homes). On the economic front, the macroeconomic framework
was substantially strengthened in 2003, partly as a result of greater fiscal consolidation. In addition,
steady progress was being made in implementing the reform program, albeit with some delays,
including of measures identified as triggers for PRSC II (see Annex 1).1 Very importantly, labor laws


1Based on supervision of the program and given the need to be more selective, some of the original PRSC II triggers
identified under the PRSC I were modified. In some areas, such as civil service reform, where original triggers for PRSC
II were intentionally kept broad to allow more discussion time with the Government, the triggers were made more specific.

have been amended as planned and technical work has been completed for the introduction of a new
targeting system for Samurdhi (Sri Lanka's largest welfare program). In addition, more liberal seed
and phyto-sanitary regulations, important for increasing farmers' access to improved technologies,
have been prepared.        However, increased political uncertainties have also affected program
implementation, particularly of politically sensitive reforms such as the passage of the Land
Ownership Bill (which was repealed by the Supreme Court) and the National Water Bill (which has
been drafted but not sent to Parliament yet), as well as the commercialization of People's Bank. In
addition, significant fiscal pressures have built up in the run-up to the elections, which if not
adequately addressed will undermine recent gains in fiscal consolidation (see below).

Macroeconomic Management

Fiscal and external imbalances continued to narrow in 2003 reflecting increased fiscal consolidation as
well as high external official and private capital inflows. The fiscal deficit in 2003 decreased to 8.1
percent of GDP from 8.9 percent in 2002. Notably, net domestic financing was cut from 8 percent of
GDP to 4.5 percent and net repayments to the banking sector accounted for 1.4 percent, providing
increased room for private credit. The current account deficit fell from 1.5 percent of GDP to 1
percent in the same period, and net inflows in the capital account have returned a surplus in the overall
balance of payments. This surplus has strengthened the country's gross foreign reserves to 2
months of import cover--up from 2 months in 2001. However, in recent months, inflation has been
creeping up and the exchange rate is under some pressure, though this may not be serious provided
exports remain strong.

Fiscal policy. As outlined in the milestone Fiscal Responsibility Management Act (MFRA), passed by
Parliament in 2002, a key objective is to reduce the fiscal deficit and Sri Lanka's high public debt
(currently exceeding 100 percent of GDP). Although the overall fiscal position improved in 2003, this
was achieved entirely from expenditure cuts, as revenues continued to fall. The revenue slippage
relative to the budget was about 1.5 percent of GDP. Moreover, the fiscal deficit is expected to widen
in 2004 owing to further revenue shortfalls (linked to delays in implementing revenue measures),
health sector salary revisions, drought relief and election expenditures as well as the impact of large
contingent liabilities resulting from the lack of adjustment of petroleum and electricity prices to higher
world oil prices.

The first review under the IMF PRGF/EFF has been delayed pending further discussions with the new
administration. A Fund mission is expected to visit Sri Lanka once a policy statement is issued and
corrective measures have been taken to address current fiscal imbalances.

Accelerating Economic Growth and Supporting Private Sector Development

In addition to supporting the establishment of a stable macroeconomic framework, which is a pre-
condition for sustaining economic growth; the PRSC growth agenda focused on reducing rigidities in
factor markets (e.g., land, labor, financial services); improving infrastructure services, in particular of
power; and fostering rural development.

Labor market. Under the Termination of Employment of Workers Act (TEWA), in force until
recently, firms were required to obtain the written consent from the employee and/or the Labor
Commissioner for the termination of an employee on non-disciplinary grounds. In 2001, labor

disputes reportedly took 440 days to resolve and labor tribunals had a backlog of 18,000 cases.
Employers responded by limiting expansion and job creation, suppressing base wages, and resorting to
outsourcing and contracting. Initial steps were taken to reform the country's costly labor regulations.
These include: (i) introduction of a formula for employee compensation at retrenchment with effect
from January 1, 20042; and (ii) amendments to the Industrial Disputes Act, which makes it mandatory
for labor tribunal cases to be completed in 120 days, arbitration cases in 60 days and processing of
termination applications in 30 days. To conform with these demands and to clear the backlog, eight
more labor tribunals have been added.                 These reforms are expected to be accompanied by an
Unemployment Benefit System (UBS), the details of which are yet to be announced. Although
severance costs under the reformed TEWA remain high by world and regional standards, they are now
more predictable and lower than under the previous system that at times reached up to 6 months wages
for each year of service However, the present legislation is not free of arbitrariness as the Labor
Commissioner's approval of retrenchment applications is still required.

Agricultural Land. The thrust of land reform has been to: (a) improve the cost efficiency, public
confidence and transparency in the land administration system; and (b) remove restrictions for sale,
mortgage, lease and transfer of land permits and grants alienated to farmers under the Land
Development Ordinance (LDO). An estimated 1.4 million hectares (35 percent of arable land) in close
to 1.2 million parcels fall under the latter category. The Land Ownership Bill--which would have
converted the LDO land grants to full private ownership--was presented to Parliament in November
2003, but was challenged in the Supreme Court who ruled that the Bill violates a provision of the 13th
Amendment to the Constitution3. As an alternative, amendments to the LDO have been prepared
upholding the legal mandate of the Provincial Councils (PCs) concerning land matters. Work is also
on-going to amend Registration of Title Act (RTA, 1998) to develop and review the policy and
institutional frameworks for the coordinated implementation of the RTA and the conversion of grants
to free hold title.

Financial Sector. The banking system is dominated by two state-owned banks--People's Bank (PB)
and Bank of Ceylon (BOC)--which together account for over 50 percent of banking sector assets and
average 20 persent in non-performing loans (NPLs). The high operating costs of these banks has led
to large inefficiencies in the system, including large spreads within the banking system.                                 A
restructuring program for both banks has been on-going. BOC--which is still solvent--is under
internal restructuring that is being monitored through performance targets. A transactions adviser was
appointed in January 2004 to conduct a valuation exercise for PB4 and prepare the bank for
privatization. However, the new Government has articulated its intention to consider restructuring
options rather than privatizing the bank. In the meantime, the PB's financial position has significantly
deteriorated due to large overdrafts provided to CPC and CEB to finance oil imports.

Rural Development. About 80 percent of Sri Lanka's population and 90 percent of the country's poor
live in rural areas. Despite its declining contribution to GDP (19 percent in 2003), the agricultural
sector remains vital for employment and income generation.                           Therefore, fostering rapid rural
development--particularly raising productivity and competitiveness in agriculture and non-farm rural


2As an illustration, a worker starting employment at age 20 and retrenched after 2, 10, or 20 years of service would receive
5, 20 and 25 months' wages as compensation, respectively.
3According to this, the Provincial ouncils are the authority to deal with land allocation matters.
4PB has a negative net worth despite two re-capitalizations in the 1990s costing US$20 million each.

sectors--is critical for achieving faster economic growth and poverty reduction in Sri Lanka. In
addition to land and labor reforms described earlier, the program has focused on: (i) facilitating farmer
access to new technologies; (ii) establishing a more stable trade regime; and (iii) ensuring
sustainability of water use. To improve farmers' access to better planting materials and technologies,
the National Seed Act was approved in May 2003. Following extensive stakeholder consultations,
corresponding draft regulations have been developed. In addition, a more liberal and efficient phyto-
sanitary regime--as outlined in the Plant Protection Act (as amended in 1999)--is also being
developed. The drafting of related phyto-sanitary rules and regulations took a while--largely due to
several rounds of consultations with stakeholders--but have broad-based support. The trade regime
for key agricultural commodities remains unpredictable. The specific duty on rice and paddy--
introduced in January 2002 in place of licensing requirements--has been revised several times to off-
set seasonal supply changes. This policy has discouraged storage and processing, and leads to large
price differentials with world prices. Similar fluctuations are observed in onions, chilies and potatoes
which are also under a specific duty regime. A technical draft of the National Water Bill is currently
with the legal draftsman. Since water is also under the domain of the PCs, legal petitions may be
raised, delaying its passage. Adequate public consultations and stronger commitment will be needed
to ensure the passage of the Bill.

Power Sector. Despite an impressive expansion in access to electricity over the past two decades
(from 15 percent to 74 percent of households), capacity constraints in power generation and high
prices threaten to limit future growth. With 59 percent of the generation from hydro power, supply is
sensitive to weather patterns. As a result, the sector has been forced to rely on expensive emergency
power generation. Past (uneconomic) pricing policies by the state-owned Ceylon Electricity Board
(CEB), the sector has incurred large financial losses, delayed investments in new transmission and
distribution facilities, and often neglected maintenance of existent infrastructure. To address these
problems, the industry is undergoing a process of restructuring which involves the unbundling of the
generation, transmission and distribution of the state-owned CEB and the Lanka Electricity Company
(LECO). To this effect, the Electricity Reforms Act was passed in Parliament in 2002 and the pricing
functions are to be brought under the multi-sector regulator the Public Utilities Commission of Sri
Lanka (PUCSL). Delays in incorporating the unbundled companies have delayed the restructuring
process. In the meantime, CEB has been accruing large losses due to prices not being revised to
reflect costs.

Strengthening Governance in the Public Sector and Improving the Welfare System

Civil Service and Administrative Reform. The quality of the public administration has declined over
the past decades. The causes include politicization, uncontrolled expansion in the civil service, and
salary compression. The out-going Government received bi-partisan support for a constitutional
amendment re-establishing the independent Public Services Commission to reduce politicization; it
has enforced a hiring freeze and in the 2004 Budget announced a salary increase, a Voluntary
Retirement Scheme (VRS) covering 1/10th of the public sector in its first year, and an increase in
pensions. In addition, it announced the establishment of a Salary Review Committee to look at the
rationalization of salary scales and study options for rationalization and the closure of government
entities for implementation in the next budget. It is unclear what elements of the package will be
supported by the new administration, but less emphasis is expected on implementing the VRS
program. Some of these issues will be taken up by a recently established Administrative Commission.

Public expenditure management.           In order to ensure an efficient utilization of limited public
resources, the Ministry of Finance is in the process of developing a medium term budget framework
(MTBF), with assistance from the Bank and AsDB. Over the past year, efforts have focused on
introducing a strategic phase in the budget formulation process and strengthening the link between
Government policies/priorities with expenditure allocations within and across sectors.          The new
administration at the MOF has endorsed this approach to the preparation of the 2005 budget.

Welfare System Reform. The Welfare System, of which Samurdhi transfer scheme is the largest has
long suffered from mis-targeting and insufficient income support, mostly due to politicization but also
due to a lack of an appropriate exit mechanism. Building on the Welfare Benefit Act, enacted in
September 2002, extensive technical work has been carried out over the past year to improve the
targeting of the Samurdhi program. Field testing for the methodology has been completed. Given the
evident gains that are likely to be derived from improving targeting, it is expected that reforms in this
area will continue.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Political Climate. Political uncertainties present the greatest risk to implementation of the PRSC
program and the country's PRS. The short election cycles that Sri Lanka has experienced since 2000
and the high likelihood of the pattern continuing raises question as to the sustainability of the reforms
in two ways: (i) the change in leadership may lead to change in the direction of reforms; (ii) the
propensity for populist measures in such election cycles tend to lead to policy setbacks, especially in
the fiscal area, which are difficult to reverse in a short period of time.

The newly elected government is still working out policy directions, but there is likely to be some
continuity as well as some departures from the previous PRS. The fact that consultations on the PRS
were initiated by the SLFP back in the late 1990s, suggest that many reforms, especially relating to the
poverty agenda, will prevail. On the fiscal side, the government is expected to focus on increasing tax
revenues (through improved tax administration, simplification of tax policy, and greater emphasis on
income taxation). Duty waivers (e.g., on sugar) are likely to be phased out as well as subsidies on
petroleum prices, but the timing of these measures has not been specified. The Government is also
working on ways to deal with losses incurred by the state-owned Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
(CPC) and the CEB caused by delays in adjusting prices to reflect higher world oil prices.
Importantly, it is anticipated that the wage bill be contained at least in the current year. On the
structural front, the main difference is the role of the state in the economy. This government will rely
less on the private sector and will favor restructuring rather than privatization.

Peace Process.      The development effectiveness of the PRSC program hinges crucially on the
continuation of peace. Though peace talks between the Government and the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE) have been suspended since April 2003, the Ceasefire Agreement and peace
initiatives, other than formal negotiations, continue. However, it is unlikely that without lasting peace
Sri Lanka could continue to grow at the historical rates of 4-5 percent achieved in the past twenty
years, given the country's structural weaknesses and greater sensitivity of tourism and investment to
conflict and terrorism.

Oil Price. Increasing oil prices pose a mounting threat to the economy. Large delays observed in
passing on the cost of oil to consumers can rapidly undermine the Government's fiscal consolidation.
If high prices were coupled with a drought the economy would be hit by an even greater shock.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory. The Bank team was able to quickly put together a
PRSC program, in collaboration with Government counterparts, based on actions already undertaken
and on the PRS which had just been finalized (in December 2002) and presented to the Bank Board in
April 2003. The PRSC program is fully consistent with the Bank's recent country and sector work.
There has been adequate continuity in the project multi-sector team, which is helping to maintain a
coherent dialogue with the Government. In addition, the task management of the PRSC was moved to
field as of January 2004 to ensure effective supervision and permit close collaboration with
government counterparts. Program implementation has been aided by a parallel Economic Reform
Technical Assistance (ERTA) project which was designed to provide expert assistance when required
(e.g., welfare reform).       The interaction with the IMF was also satisfactory, with the Bank
complementing the Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.                       Importantly, the team also
collaborates with multilateral and bilateral development organizations, to ensure an appropriate
division of responsibilities in support of the country's PRS. Although the design of the PRSC program
marked a departure from traditional adjustment lending,5 it was not sufficiently linked to the budget.
However, this was due to the non-availability at the time of a detailed assessment of Sri Lanka's
public expenditures and their management. This shortcoming is currently being addressed and future
operations are likely to be increasingly centered on supporting the budget and the budget process.

Borrower performance has been largely satisfactory. In the PRS, the Government laid the foundations
of a medium term transformation of the Sri Lankan economy, which enjoyed full support of the private
sector. However, further consultation within government institutions and other stake holders would
have helped to internalize the PRS and increase ownership, especially of proposed politically sensitive
reforms. Although implementation of certain actions has been delayed due to political uncertainties
and difficulties in passing certain legislative changes, the overall performance of the outgoing
Government was satisfactory. The Government collaborated with Bank officials in the preparation of
the PRSC I and the quality of this collaboration improved over time, particularly in the context of the
joint supervision of the program. The new administration has expressed interest in continuing working
with the Bank on the PRSC program.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

The recent political developments reinforce the importance of linking the release of PRSC funds to the
effective implementation of up-front actions and not to future promises. To hedge against the risk of
slow implementation, the loan amounts could be adjusted, while support could continue. Recent
poverty numbers, which show a sharp increase in inequality between 1990-91 and 2002, also reinforce
the need to focus on pro-poor reforms, e.g., welfare reforms and rural development.

It is important that future PRSC operations be more closely linked to the budget. In this regard, the
Bank team is working with the MOF to enhance the policy orientation of the budget through the
development of a medium term budget framework.

To ensure the sustainability of reforms, the new government needs to be encouraged to enhance
consultations with relevant stakeholders, including those within the government, and to inform the
public at large of the pros and cons of reforms, perhaps through a more systematic communications
strategy.


5The PRSC took the place of the originally proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) which at one point
included 50 conditions.

Given the difficulties in passing legislative changes, which in Sri Lanka's context could be subject to
court challenges, future operations will need to explore alternative (more pragmatic) options to
achieve stated objectives. For example, mainly in recognition of this problem, the Ministry of Finance
decided to issue relevant circulars instead of submitting to Parliament a new Public Finance Act.
Should legal reforms be included in the program, careful consideration needs to be given to the
constitutionality of the proposed legislation and whether it would be able to withstand court
challenges.

                                                                    Annex I

 MATRIX OF SPECIFIC REFORM MEASURES SUPPORTED BY THE PRSC I AND TRIGGERS TO PRSC II

           Completed Reforms supported by PRSC I                                    Triggers to PRSC II

1. Strengthening fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic framework
 EnactedtheFiscalManagementResponsibilityAct,settingmediumterm                     The PRGF Program has been suspended, pending
      targets for budget deficit (5 percent of GDP) and public debt (85 percent      the adoption of corrective measures to address
      of GDP), and mandating pre-election budgetary position report; and             fiscal imbalances.
      satisfactory implementation of the PRGF program.

2. Supporting Factor Market Reforms

     Labor: Amendments made effective to: (i) the Termination of
      Employment of Workmen - TEWA (Special Provisions) Act, (ii) the               Labor: Announce TEWA Compensation package
      Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of Proceedings) (Special        at retrenchment (done)
      Provisions) Bill ; and (iii) the Industrial Disputes Act, with a view to (a)
      setting statutory limits for the resolution of labor disputes, (b) binding
      the Labor Commissioner to use a gazetted compensation formula at
      retrenchment.

     Land: Enacted Survey Act, completed an institutional review and               Land: Submit to Parliament Amendments to the
      appointed Registrar General Land and Registrar General Titles, initiated       Land Development Ordinance and finalize
      a consultancy on unutilized state land in urban areas, and Committed in        administrative plans for conversion of grants into
      the Letter of Development Policy to developing and adopting a process
      to convert restricted grant lands to freehold titles in an efficient and       free-hold titles (under preparation); Submit to

      transparent manner. The commitment was enforced by presenting the              Parliament Registration of Titles Act and initiate
      Land Ownership Bill to Parliament.                                             implementation (close to completion)


     Financial Sector: Enacted Amendments to Monetary Law Act;                     Financial Sector: Announce commercialization
      Privatized the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation; Established an Insurance
      Regulatory Authority and liberalized the sector to foreign ownership;          plan for People's Bank and timetable for
      and Initiated the commercialization of the state-owned People's Bank as        implementation (on hold); and develop "fit and
      reflected in the following actions: (a) appointed a People's Bank              proper" criteria by Central Bank (done)
      Restructuring Committee to oversee its commercialization; (b) procured
      a financial advisor to assist in restructuring PB.


3. Reform of the Power Sector

To reform the power sector and restructure the vertically integrated Ceylon
Electricity Board (CEB):

     Enacted the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) Act,
      establishing a multi-sector regulator and recommended the individuals to
      be appointed as Commissioners of PUCSL to Constitutional Council.

     Enacted the Electricity Reforms Act, unbundling the CEB and bringing
      the regulation and pricing of successor companies under the PUCSL.

     Increased electricity tariffs to reflect cost recovery.

4. Rural Development

     Prepared draft Seed Bill, National Water Resources Bill, and National         Send to Parliament National Seed Bill and issue
      Water Policy                                                                   regulations (done)
     Reviewed plant quarantine rules and regulations                               Send to Parliament National Water Bill, issue
                                                                                     regulations, and initiate implementation (close to
                                                                                     completion)

5. Welfare Reforms

   Enacted Welfare Benefits Act to provide legal and institutional            Develop application form (based on proxy means
    framework for reforms                                                       testing formula) to collect information on potential
   Formed steering committee to oversee implementation                         applicants in the pilot exercise. (done)

                                                                               Pilot targeting methodology targeting 40,000
                                                                                households (done)

                                                                               Pilot enrolment involving enrolment of the
                                                                                households selected from the targeted pilot as
                                                                                potential beneficiaries (ready to launch)

4. Public Sector Reforms

   Re-established the independent Public Services Commission (PSC) with       Cabinet approval of a medium term strategy for
    the 17th Amendment to the Constitution to depoliticize the civil service    public sector reform, including a two phased
   Introduce strict time limits (and penalties for non-compliance) for the     approach to administrative rationalization (on
    submission of annual accounts and performance reports by the line           hold).
    ministries and SOEs.
                                                                               Issue VRS circular reflecting consultations with
   Continue implementing the across-the-board hiring freeze with limited       relevant agencies, including legal opinion, with a
    exceptions.                                                                 view to ensuring appropriate targeting, avoiding
   Established a contributory pension scheme for new public employees          adverse selection and reentry (on hold)

   Submit the Public Finance Act for discussions at the Economic Policy
    Committee.

