Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3785 - CE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2003 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3785 - CE 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2003, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 19, 2003, (the 
Letter of Development Policy) from the Borrower describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to reduce poverty from the Borrower’s territory 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis of, among other things, the foregoing, the Association has 
decided to support the Program by making available proceeds of a credit (the “Credit”) 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of 
which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall 
Page  4
-
2
-
be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 
(a) 
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the Borrower’s 
central bank; 
 
(b) 
“Central Environmental Authority” means the Borrower’s Central 
Environmental Authority established under its National Environmental Act (No. 47 of 
1980); 
 
(c) 
“Ceylon Electricity Board” means the Ceylon Electricity Board 
established under the Ceylon Electricity Board Act (No. 17 of 1969); 
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of the same calendar year; 
 
(f) 
“Interim National Water Resources Authority” means the authority 
constituted under the Borrower’s National Water Policy for the purposes of managing and 
addressing Sri Lanka’s water supply situation; 
 
(g) 
“Kalaoya River Basin Management Committee” means a committee 
comprising representatives from the government, private sector, non-governmental 
organizations and local communities constituted to manage the natural resources of the 
Kalaoya river basin under the Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project, a project 
financed by the Association under IDA Credit No. 3058-CE; 
 
(h) 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower’s letter referred to 
in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka” means the Mahaweli Authority of Sri 
Lanka established under the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Act (No. 23 of 1979); 
 
(j) 
“National Insurance Company” means a limited liability company 
incorporated on February 3, 1993 as a legal successor to the National Insurance 
Corporation established under the Insurance (Special Provisions) Act (No. 22 of 1979); 
 
(k) 
“National Water Policy” means Sri Lanka’s National Water Resources 
Policy; 
 
(l) 
“People’s Bank” means the People’s Bank established under the People’s 
Bank Act (No. 29 of 1961); 
 
(m) 
“Provincial Council” means a provincial council of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka; 
 
(n) 
“Rupee” means the currency of the Borrower; and 
 
(o) 
“Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited” means the Sri Lanka 
Insurance Corporation Limited incorporated on February 3, 1993, as a legal successor to 
the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka established under the Insurance Corporation Act 
(No. 2 of 1961). 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 90,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing the first request for 
withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2013 and 
ending January 1, 2043. Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on January 1, 2023, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association; shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.09. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 3.02.
 Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have 
occurred; and  
 
(b) 
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance, or the Director General, 
External Resources Department, Ministry of Policy Development and Implementation, of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN 
  FINMIN 
21409  94-1-
449823 
 
FORAID 21232  
94-1-447633 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
By /s/ Charitha Ratwatte 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Country Director 
Sri Lanka 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
Page  14
-
12 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);  
 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Page  15
-
13 -
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  16
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Taken By the Borrower 
 
The Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
enacted: (i) the Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of 
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act (No. 13 of 2003) (the “Industrial Disputes 
Proceedings Act”); and (ii) various amendments to the Termination of 
Employment of Workment (Special Provisions) Act (No. 45 of 1971) (the 
“TEWA Act”), and the Industrial Disputes Act (chapter 152) in accordance with 
paragraph 15 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(b) 
made gazette announcements regarding the operation of various 
amendments to its labour and employment laws, including the minimum 
compensation formula for terminated workers covered under the TEWA Act and 
the Industrial Disputes Proceedings Act to ensure that costs associated with job 
terminations are transparent and predictable, in accordance with paragraphs 15 
and 28 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(c) 
enacted the Factories Amendment (Act No. 19 of 2002) to 
harmonize limits on overtime work for women with international standards in 
accordance with paragraph 15 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(d) 
made a public announcement of its intent to convert restricted land 
grants into freehold lands under the Land Development Ordinance and the Land 
Grants (Special Provisions) Act (No. 43 of 1997) in accordance with paragraph 16 
of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(e) 
enacted the Survey Act (No. 17 of 2002); appointed the Registrar 
General of Lands as the Registrar General of Title; completed institutional review 
study relating to land administration; and initiated a consultancy on arrangements 
for disposition of unutilized state land in urban areas in accordance with 
paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(f) 
made a public announcement of its plans for commercialization of 
the state-owned People’s Bank; appointed a bank restructuring committee to 
oversee its commercialization; and announced a short-list of financial advisors to 
assist with the process, in accordance with paragraph 18 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
 
Page  17
-
15 -
(g)  established independent boards comprising of reputed 
professionals for state-owned banks; recruited management teams of qualified 
bankers to operate these banks; and withdrawn sovereign guarantees for lending 
to state-owned enterprises, in accordance with paragraph 18 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
 
(h) 
issued a corporate governance code for the banking sector; 
 
(i) 
prepared and submitted a draft public finance bill for consideration by its 
cabinet’s economic policy committee; 
 
(j) 
enacted an amendment to its Monetary Law Act (No. 58 of 1949) 
that, among other things, provides for the expansion of the Monetary Board, a 
legal regime for electronic payments and settlements, and flexibility with respect 
to statutory reserve requirements in accordance with paragraph 18 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
 
(k) 
established a regulatory authority for the insurance industry, 
permitted foreign ownership of insurance companies; liberalized investment rules 
for insurance companies to invest in government and private securities and 
completed sale of shares held by the government in the National Insurance 
Company and commercialization of the Sri Lanka Insurance Company Limited; 
 
(l) 
permitted provident and pension funds to invest in private 
securities; caused the economic policy subcommittee of its cabinet to approve the 
amalgamation of the employees provident fund and the employees trust fund; 
submitted a bill to its parliament for a fully funded pension system for new 
recruits to the public sector;  
 
(m) 
revised electricity tariffs to improve cost recovery levels and the 
receivables position of the Ceylon Electricity Board; and enacted and gazetted the Public 
Utilities Commission Act No. 35 of 2002; 
 
(n) 
prepared drafts of the National Seed Bill, the National Water Policy and 
National Water Resources Bill; 
 
(o) 
initiated a review of plant quarantine rules and regulations; 
 
(p) 
prepared and completed a transition plan for the Mahaweli Authority of Sri 
Lanka; and established the Interim National Water Resources Authority and the Kalaoya 
River Basin Management Committee; 
 
Page  18
-
16 -
(q) 
enacted the Welfare Benefit Act (No. 24 of 2002) to provide a legal and 
institutional framework for reform; and set up a steering committee on welfare reforms 
with representation of key ministries and departments to oversee implementation of the 
reforms process; 
 
(r) 
taken appropriate and necessary action in accordance with its 
constitutional and parliamentary procedures to establish an independent public services 
commission; 
 
(s) 
implemented and maintained an across-the-board hiring freeze, with 
limited exceptions, in all line ministries, departments, agencies and state-owned 
enterprises, and caused its Provincial Councils to implement and maintain a similar hiring 
freeze in accordance with paragraph 25 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(t) 
enacted the Fiscal Management (Responsibility) Act (No. 3 of 2003); 
 
(u) 
constituted an administrative reforms committee to provide policy advice 
and to coordinate public sector reforms; 
 
(v) 
nominated to its Constitutional Council individuals to serve as 
commissioners of the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka. 
 
(w) 
introduced strict time limits for the submission of annual reports and 
performance reports by line ministries and state-owned enterprises, and taken necessary 
action to ensure that the state-owned enterprises and government agencies submit their 
accounts in a timely manner; 
 
(x) 
revised the form and content for presenting government accounts; 
established a website for its Ministry of Finance from which annual reports will be 
available through the Internet; 
 
(y) 
submitted for consideration by its cabinet a draft bill to establish a 
chartered institute of public finance and accountancy; established a corporate governance 
unit in its Department of Public Enterprises; and developed a code of best practices for 
corporate governance in public enterprises; 
 
(z) 
prepared a cabinet paper proposing the formation of a holding company to 
manage any stocks, shares and other financial interests held by the government in various 
companies;  
 
(aa) 
appointed a committee to study and make recommendations for 
strengthening the oversight capacity of its Parliament’s Committee on Public Accounts and 
Committee on Public Enterprises; 
 
Page  19
-
17 -
(bb) 
completed an assessment of various regulations and procedures for 
environmental assessment and licensing to identify changes necessary for them to conform 
to international best practices; 
 
(cc) 
introduced computerized procedures in environmental licensing;  
 
(dd) 
taken a decision to decentralize the Central Environmental Authority by 
creating various regional offices, and initiated pilot programs to build environmental 
management capacity at the provincial level; 
 
(ee) 
proposed the creation of a poverty map on the basis of the 2001 Census 
and 2002 Household Income and Expenditure Survey; and established a committee to 
coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities for its poverty reduction strategy; and 
 
(ff) 
ensured that reliable data for poverty assessments and social impact 
analysis is available by conducting the Household Income and Expenditure Survey and 
the Consumer Finance and Socio-Economic Survey on an alternating basis every two to 
three years.
 
